ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 40th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dr Pavel Gantar, Dr Marko Pavliha from 15.30 p.m., Mr Aloise Posedel and Mr Anton Kokalj. We're moving on to 30. Agenda item - Redecision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act. At its 5th extraordinary meeting on 5.6.2008, the Council of State decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to re-judge before declaring the law on amendments and additions to the law on higher education. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Prof. Dr. Jožet Mencinger to explain the Council's request. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u2	Good morning! Dear Members and Members, Madam Minister! The Council of State has vetoed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act, because when preparing it, the proposer went around universities, students and trade unions because the law in inadequate ways solves the dilemmas of higher education and because the law contains vague and unreasonable formulations. Firstly, the law was to be adopted following an urgent procedure for the decision of the Constitutional Court. In its decision, however, nothing was said about the Euro-Mediterranean University. Moreover, it can be argued that the law was created precisely because of it and that the Higher Education Council and the Rights of Graduates were only an excuse to apply the urgency procedure. Secondly, the law establishing the Higher Education Council Secretariat formally takes into account the Constitutional Court's requirement, but does not guarantee the autonomy of the Council, as it does not contain mechanisms to prevent conflicts of interest, such as that the President of the Council is the founder and owner of a private higher education institution or that the accreditation of a higher education institution is decided by the people associated with this institution. It also partially solves the problem of damage to students at transitions between prebolonic and Bologna study programmes. Thirdly, the law contains vague and incomprehensible formulations. One sentence is sufficient for illustration, the third paragraph of Article 10a, which states: "The International Union of Universities referred to in the preceding paragraph is the university under this law, irrespective of the fulfilment of the conditions for the establishment of the university." Both concepts, the international union of universities on the one hand, and the university on the other, are clearly defined. Everyone in the world knows what the union of universities is and what the university is and what it is not possible to evaluate them, just as it cannot be said that the table under this law is a chair, even though it does not meet the conditions for being a chair. The nonsense of celebrations, political support at home and in the European Union and the promised millions of euros cannot make sense. Even if we overlook meaningless formulations, we cannot go beyond the conclusion of the actual state of affairs. The new Euro-Mediterranean University, which is supposed to be the third in the coast, is already expected to have teachers, students and premises. He doesn't have all of this, but some now attribute that Slovenian Harvard, who is supposed to envy the present universities. In fact, it seems that it will work remotely through websites that can now buy any degree. On the Committee on Higher Education of the State Council, it was clear to the Council that veto was only political speculation, but the relevant Commission of the State Council immediately and before the adoption of the law had expressed the same concerns to the proposer, but ignored them. Similarly, he ignored the concerns of universities and students. Let me add that the State Council has adopted its veto before the Portorož ceremony, which has probably made a veto of sense, but at the same time has pointed to a much more important problem, namely the lack of respect for the rule of law by the institutions that are supposed to create it. For this reason, I believe that the law deserves to be discussed again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Rudolph Mohet, President, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u4	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. Good-bye. The Committee considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the law amending and supplementing the law on higher education. The reasons for the adoption of the request of the Council of State are that the law raises issues which may have a significant impact on the current higher education regime, in particular with regard to articles which lay the legal basis for the establishment of an international union of universities, since these provisions can be interpreted differently. The main issue is that the International Union of Universities can be a university, which is a new and unverified arrangement. The National Council points out that the bill's proponents did not work with higher education partners in its preparation, namely universities and students, who should also have certain rights in the management of international associations of universities. The establishment of an international association of universities on the basis of a contract is controversial, since the law does not set out its mandatory constituents, but leaves only the act establishing it and the statute. The provisions of the law, which, according to the new definition of the Secretariat of the Higher Education Council, satisfy only the formal requirements of the Constitutional Court decision, but not the professional ones. The representative of the Council of State said in explanation of the Committee's request that the act establishing the Euro-Mediterranean University had already been signed, although the legal basis for the establishment of such a university had not yet been definitively adopted, indicating a lack of respect for the rule of law in our country. The establishment of an international union of universities, as well as the Euro-Mediterranean University, proposed under our legislation, although it is not stipulated that we should meet the conditions laid down by the applicable legal order in the field of higher education, both for its establishment and for its entry into the register of higher education institutions. The Council of State also notes that it is not a person of international law, although it will have at least one relevant foreign university as co-founder. The Euro-Mediterranean University does not yet have its own premises for the implementation of study programmes and it is also questionable to redistribute resources within the budget for its operation. The Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology presented broad support both domestically and foreignally for the establishment of a Euro-Mediterranean University to contribute to the strengthening of intercultural dialogue in this geographical area. The Legislative and Legal Service has reiterated that leaving the designation of the body of the International Union of Universities to the Act of Establishment or Statute in terms of clarity and certainty, in particular legal certainty, is questionable. The law is not supported by the Student Organisation of Slovenia, as they were unable to participate in its preparation, and the University of Ljubljana believes that a new university could be established by an international treaty or a decree of the National Assembly. Members and members of the opposition reiterated that they do not oppose the establishment of international associations of universities, as well as the non-establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University, which they have seen on several occasions in the debates so far. However, they are opposed to an inadequate legal basis for such a establishment, as the law does not sufficiently show how the study programmes, implementation, codecision and funding will be implemented. They also oppose the law because the harmonisation of the law by a decision of the Constitutional Court requires only formal requirements but does not solve the problems of the composition of the Council and should, under their law, establish an independent professional agency for evaluation and accreditation. For these reasons, the opposition proposes that the law should not be adopted in the matter of re-decision. On the contrary, the representatives of government parties felt that it would not be necessary to veto the law, as they considered it to be a good legal basis for the establishment of international associations of universities. In doing so, they stressed that the establishment of a Euro-Mediterranean university to contribute to the strengthening of cultural dialogue supports a large number of countries as well as foreign universities. Therefore, they see no reason not to adopt the law on the basis of a re-decision. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following opinion by a majority of the votes of all members: the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act is appropriate and proposes to the National Assembly to reaffirm it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the bill of reasons for the opinion. Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Minister of Education, Science and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u6	Hello, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, including the students accompanying this meeting, the representative of the Council of State! In fact, I am a little embarrassed to say what I should say in that opening statement today, since much has been said about marriage. We have discussed today’s marriage several times. When the veto was voted, we have all witnessed together to the most successful and extremely resilient international event in Slovenia, Portorož, and we can find with certainty that this project is one of the projects that we can assess as a joint project of the Republic of Slovenia. In recent years, it has worked at all levels to successfully establish the Euro-Mediterranean University in our country, both at political level, both in the National Assembly and by the Government at the level of the competent ministries. The initiative alone was supported by the President of the Government, including the President of the State, by a single support at the diplomatic level and very, very much, we can say, successful support at the academic level. The initiative to establish the Euro-Mediterranean University was supported, inter alia, by foreign ministers and higher education from the 39 Euro-Mediterranean partner countries. The initiative was supported by the European Commission and the European Parliament. Since the comments of the state councilors focused mainly on the establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University, I believe that a different sequence of times would result in a different result, and today we would not need to discuss already, we can say, the preconceived, overplayed content. However, I should like to reiterate that our country's experts have been involved in drafting the amendments to the law. The legislative procedure then brought some amendments after the amendments. In particular, on the part of the founder of the International Union of Universities, it was also pointed out at the initiative of the Student Organisation of Slovenia that it must be one of the founders of the university established under this law, i.e. under the Higher Education Act. If we look at this today, this is one of the four universities we have in Slovenia. In other words, let me stress that only the intention of participating in the Euro-Mediterranean University has been expressed by all four universities. With regard to funding, the amendment was also adopted at the initiative of the Slovenian Student Organisation, as well as at the initiative of universities, with an explicit statement, which includes the amendment of the law that the International Union of Universities, established in the Republic of Slovenia, cannot receive funds from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which are intended for the study activity of public and licensed higher education institutions and investment in higher education, but can only be financed from a specific heading. In particular, this provision, or this paragraph, was placed in the same article, to avoid fear of being financed under the existing heading of higher education activities. With regard to the graduates, an amendment was also adopted, which specifically stipulated that the study obligations of the candidates to be enrolled in the study programmes, in addition to what was already envisaged as the basic form of the amendment of the law, should also be recognised when the entry into the study programmes for obtaining the Master's degree in science and the Doctorate of Science will no longer be possible. However, with regard to funding, it is explicitly stressed that the fees paid must be taken into account. I'm sure we still have the optimal version of the law before us. In doing so, I must stress once again that this is not an integrated reform of the law, as it would be impossible to do so in this time frame, mainly because of the need to discuss it with different partners. This is a restrictive approach and the most urgent adaptation in the light of the Constitutional Court's decision and in view of the need for our country to continue to show credibility against the international community in higher education, even in the context of this year's particularly exposed international and intercultural dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! In the DeSUS Group, we will vote in the re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act as we voted in the previous meeting of the National Assembly, which means that we are also supporting the law today. We are convinced of the re-support of the law because we assess that in both cases, where amendments and amendments to the law have been proposed for the purpose of the intervention of the Constitutional Court, the decisions of the courts are duly followed. We are also committed to supporting the law in the work relating to the establishment of the International Union of Universities, which will have its seat with us, which, of course, Slovenians can be considered an honour to be entrusted with such an important project which enjoys the European, political and professional sphere and the general public high support. Members of the DeSUS are convinced that projects can be implemented and that we can demonstrate ourselves in the educational and scientific field of higher education as a quality society and as a successful vehicle for intercultural dialogue in the Euro-Mediterranean environment. In doing so, I would like to point out that we do not agree with the findings of the higher education partners on the non-compliance with their proposals, since at least some of them have been included in the text of the law. The law itself has established in terms of educational and scientific research, according to our assessment, the recognition and legal certainty of the acquired knowledge of students, listeners, publicly recognised programmes offered by the Euro-Mediterranean University. We also believe that all the substantive elements of the legal basis that will enable the organisation to function in accordance with our legal order will be included in support of the establishment and the status of the relationship. Our parliamentary group will also support the law this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u10	Well, hello, all of you! The SNS Group will not support this law. Europe is playing with everything too much. This is also the case with the establishment of various universities, in which the state of Slovenia is in fact almost unable to participate anymore. The founding acts will be written as anyone will like and will simply be legalized by the creation of them. In the act establishing other higher education institutions, we received at least a founding act in the National Assembly, examined it, had opinions on it, and discussed it, and confirmed or rejected an idea or a solution. In this case, there won't be a chance. There are no mandatory elements in the law, but they are left to the Act of Establishment and Statute, which means that Croats will also be able to speak or teach their oral history at this university, and Slovenia, which will pay for this higher education institution from the budget, will not be able to say anything or will not be able to intervene in all of this. There is also the question of what is the interaction with the existing universities that we already have in Slovenia. Whether other universities will lower their levels so that they will approach some private universities that will not be obliged to follow certain guidelines, or whether these private universities will improve so as to increase the level of the study programme. I think there'll be a first more likely than the second. In line with the collapse of the Lisbon Strategy or the Treaty, even the purchase of some higher education institutions, we will get a whole range of some doctors, masters, and I don't know anything else who can't explain their own title, let alone have some extensive knowledge of the title. I think it's a little under-complete, though it's a very good idea. However, it is too small and too much left to the individual decision, the decision of the one who will, let's say, not even invest money, but set up professors and guidelines to look for the most optimal, which also means the easiest ways to make the most of the money. We will not support this law in the Slovenian National Party, in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister! In the Lipa Group, we never objected to talking about good programmes that touch on education, science. It is true, however, that we have always drawn attention to the incomplete solutions that have arisen under the Ministry of Higher Education since the previous Minister, Minister Zupan. And you know, the consequences of these unfinished solutions are felt or felt by students, former students, today. You will recall if I tell you that we have implemented the Bologna Reform in the framework of the Higher Education Act in an inappropriate manner when the terms were defined. Finally, in this mandate, we have received virtually every amendment to the law a warning from the Council of State that solutions are bad. And this solution, which is before us today, is a solution that is inconsistent. Some of you will swing with your hand, yes, but what if you do not take into account the comments of the students, the Student Organisation of Slovenia. This is contrary to commitments and contrary to the adoption of laws in the context of the so-called tripartite coordination. This is a bad trip, respectable colleagues and colleagues. Nevertheless, I must say that in the Lipa Group we do not oppose any international cooperation in the field of higher education. I know this project is supported by the international public. The Minister said that the European Parliament has also supported this project to be supported by the European Commission. 39 foreign ministers supported this project. I know that funding has already been provided from some more exotic countries. High financial resources. But on the other hand, I wonder whether it is fair within the framework of a law that provides some legal basis for the establishment of a Euro-Mediterranean university to write down such very vague rules that Slovenian universities will be placed in an unequal position. With such a dictatorship as is enshrined in this law, we give a privileged position to the international link between universities - the Euro-Mediterranean University. On the other hand, we read, we listen to warnings from Slovenian universities - Ljubljana, Maribor, the seaside, that they are subject to such new measures by the State to even be subject to double taxation, that the State, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under the budgetary resources, reduces in the long term the share of gross social product to be allocated to higher education. As far as the financing of this Euro-Mediterranean University is concerned, this law does not clearly lay down rules to prevent the suffering of Slovenian universities and students who will be involved in the programmes offered by the Ljubljana, Maribor and Primorska University and any other higher education institution, at the expense of the Euro-Mediterranean University. These are dilemmas, respectable colleagues and problems that remain open and that are not solved by this law. Despite the fact that there is no legal basis yet, the State Council voted veto, and the President of the Government was present at this festive event, and they signed an act establishing the Euro-Mediterranean University. No one wonders why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not respect its own legal order in our country. As has already been said, in the Lipa Group we do not oppose any integration or international establishment of universities in the Slovenian space. We stress, however, that clear rules must be laid down for this. You know, when legislation is adopted on the one hand, which is very restrictive to domestics, even to internationally recognized universities, Slovenian universities, and on the other hand, very loose rules are adopted for some private universities, which will even be appreciated, even the RCC - the Catholic University is among them. At that time, according to the opinion of the Lip Group, sometimes it is necessary to say no.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members, Madam Minister! We have before us the veto of the State Council on the law on higher education. Of course, first of all, it offers the conclusion that it is quite amazing how many vetoes we have been given in this mandate by the Council of State, not because of this, and I am convinced that all these laws would be so poor or unprofessionally prepared, but mainly because of political movements. This was further convinced by this last veto on the law on higher education, as Dr Jože Mencinger, who introduced the position of the State Council today, even acknowledged freely on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development how vetoed today after the adoption or festive signature of all the partners in the Euro-Mediterranean University project in Portorož, it makes no sense. That's amazing. So, the veto was only given because it was necessary to dictate to the government on a good project important to the country, but it did not come out on time. And that probably hurts a lot. In my opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, this is the extremely unserious and arrogant attitude of all those who have participated, directly or indirectly, in the bargaining process, not to say anything in the attempt to destroy this project. But this kind of political action is not surprising. We've just taken a deep step into a strange pre-election period, where apparently some people can do everything they can think of. They are also setting up a project that is good for a country that is supported by over 40 countries, which allows Slovenia, after all, to expand higher education. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group does not really find one very important reason why it was vetoed in the amendment of the Higher Education Act, except for the above mentioned one, which is of a political nature and is aimed only at placating the Government that is doing good. Those who follow the higher education space more closely, you know that the amendment of the law to which the veto of the State Council is given today is abolished, complemented and corrected only those parts of the law that have been warned by the Constitutional Court by a decision. And in our opinion, the Ministry did the only right thing to take these warnings into account. It would be very irresponsible if they did not regulate the legal status of those students who, when enrolled in the study programmes referred to in Article 33 of the Higher Education Act, expected to obtain one degree of higher education after completion of the study. The second major amendment, which is introduced by the amendment of the law on higher education, is that the professional organisational tasks of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for higher education are no longer managed by an authority within the Ministry, but are carried out by the Secretariat within the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education. This ensures independence from the Ministry. And when we put all this together, we are confirmed once again only by what has already been said, namely that it was only because of political motives that this country's project has been well implemented, which also reflects the very successful Presidency of the European Union. That's not what the opposition wants. And this also reflected in some parts a report by the Committee, which unfortunately did not show a variety of views. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will once again support the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Higher Education Act and thus vote against the Council of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u16	Good day to the Messengers and to the Messengers. Good afternoon, Mr. Jozet Mencinger. Good afternoon, Minister. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats attaches to the opinion of the State Council and the Student Organisation of Slovenia and of all three universities that the law on amendments and additions to the law on higher education has met only the formal requirements laid down in the decision of the Constitutional Court, but not the professional requirements when it defined the Secretariat of the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education. For example, it does not solve the problems of the Council's composition, which is now composed in a way and also in advance that does not prevent conflicts of interest. Most of the members of the world, which is still in force, are called the Government. In addition, the Council does not have a sufficiently independent professional service to enable quality and effective work for the world, so in our Group of Members we believe that, with regard to the appointment of the Director of the Secretariat of the Council, conditions should be laid down for the appointment of the selected person to have a doctorate of science in addition to the required work experience in the field of higher education. We have also tabled such an amendment to the four opposition parliamentary groups and, of course, was, as usual, rejected. The same has happened with the amendment, which speaks of a competitive commission to elect a candidate for the Director of the Higher Education Council Secretariat, to be drawn up in parity and to propose to the Director of the Higher Education Council rather than to the President of the Higher Education Council. This part of the amendment was also rejected in the package. The current resolution of the law does not at all set out the criteria for selection, not to mention that the proposal for appointment is made by the President of the Higher Education Council in spite of the appointed Competition Commission. We also estimate that the law is inaccurate, since it only partially resolves student injury uncertainties by supplementing the transitional provisions. Students who have left their studies at the second Bologna level due to the change in legislation in 2006 do not provide an adequate legal position. Here is once again evidence that the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology certainly cannot draw up laws in such a way that the articles are placed where they belong. In particular, the articles that are intended to resolve the status of these students are placed in transitional provisions, so that they do not essentially solve this problem comprehensively, but only in part. In addition, for the financing of the postgraduate study, this law does not allocate additional resources. It also opens up a series of new issues that can have a strong impact on our higher education space. Articles establishing a legal basis for the establishment of an international union of universities leave a very wide room of manoeuvre for different interpretations. This enables in particular a provision that defines the International Union of Universities as a university, which is a new and internationally unverified arrangement and reminds us once again that the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology has not prepared the law in cooperation with higher education partners, as it has so far done, but has only solved the situation in the wake of a widespread resistance to such a way of drafting the law. And also the amendment, which was proposed for students to participate in the same way as it did in the Higher Education Act, including in the management of international associations of universities, was not adopted. Both amendments relating to accreditation or verification of higher education programmes and also to the international association of universities, which is supposed to be a university under this law. It is interesting that we listen all the time to how all the good proposals of amendments, laws, etc., coalitions, in particular SDS, like to accept, but in the end the situation is always the same. All amendments that improve the texts of laws are usually rejected. And finally, the crucible argument for rushing into this marriage, look, it just went off the rails all of a sudden. The significant 9 June took place, a signed charter establishing the Euro-Mediterranean University was signed, although the law was not in force and therefore the condition stated by the Minister and the entire coalition was not met on a notable date. So they still hold our warnings that without further ado, they could take the time, accept the law calmly, and by regular procedure. The Social Democrats' parliamentary group will largely not support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, the representative of the Council of State, Madam Minister and co-worker! For Members of the LDS Club, the elected veto of the Council of State was no surprise. Why it was not a surprise, it follows from the justification of the veto voted. Of course, all the reasons for the veto voted are very similar to the above-mentioned arguments that the Members have already mentioned in the examination, and in particular to the arguments that we have cited in the part where we have opposed the procedure for examining this law. Today, we are once again convinced that a mistake was made at the beginning when we allowed such an important law to be dealt with by emergency procedure. In doing so, I would like to reiterate my concerns and my conclusion that this time the addition to the Higher Education Act does not correspond to the professional content of the bill, since the law has been substantially amended in the Committee. The law we are witnessing does not have a good social partner's passport, because it was not coordinated with them, so it was not in line with the professional and interested public. Unfortunately, we can also conclude that the law makes it possible to satisfy the partial, personal interests of members and the ruling coalition, which can be concluded by monitoring how they are established or trying to establish individual higher education institutions or universities. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that in the LDS Club we have been in favour of the idea of establishing the International Euro-Mediterranean University since the beginning, despite the fact that its establishment has been a part of Slovenia as a third university. In doing so, we would like to point out that there are still large parts of Slovenia without a clear response to the formation of universities, although the Government has made many promises on its visits to Slovenia. This testifies to the inadvertent design of the Slovenian network of universities, which is founded without adequate professional backgrounds and serves the daily interests of the ruling policy. In doing so, we note in particular that existing legislation would be sufficient to establish the Euro-Mediterranean University. This is also confirmed by the fact that the festive act of establishment has already been carried out and it is not clear whether the university association or university has been established. The text of the law, which creates the legal basis for the establishment of the International Union of Universities, is inconceivable, since it means a university. Although the establishment is proposed under Slovenian legislation, it is not stipulated that it should comply with the conditions laid down by the applicable law in the field of higher education. The solution to the accreditation of the new university is also unclear. The accreditation of the new programmes of such a university and the composition of the bodies of such an institution is called into question. This allows for the public recognition of foreign and new study programmes without clearly defined quality criteria. In this way it is entirely possible that, in accordance with this law, they will implement programmes that will not achieve the standard difficulty prescribed for study programmes in the Republic of Slovenia and that students and students will be excluded from the management bodies of this institution. Furthermore, the law merely attempts to satisfy the requirements of the Constitutional Court after the establishment of an independent professional service of the Higher Education Council. In the House of Representatives, we note that such a solution as proposed by law may be sufficient for the Constitutional Court, but it will not convince the European Union bodies to ensure quality in higher education and that Slovenia has not established an independent agency to identify and ensure the quality of higher education in Slovenia. It can already be predicted that the Council for Higher Education will not be recognised as equal, equivalent institutions in the company of agencies that identify and guarantee the quality of higher education in the European Union. We further note from the above arguments on the inappropriate text of the law that the law has incorrectly regulated the status of those students for whom the Constitutional Court found that they had rightly expected a higher level of education than they had been given by entering the second Bologna level. They are now allowed to continue their studies in the old postgraduate study, where the country which has committed the original error is willing to pay only part of this study, without any additional funds being allocated to them. In conclusion, allow me to express our regret that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology have re-established the National Assembly in the situation, instead of taking a consensus decision on the establishment of the European Mediterranean University, to propose a law to which we oppose in the parliamentary club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Aloise Sok has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Dear Minister, the distinguished representative of the Council of State! In Novi Slovenija we will not go into the fact that the State Council voted veto because it has this right as many times as it wants and whenever it wants. In this case, however, the question of the certainty of the purpose of such a veto is raised, and the purpose of the veto was also directed by the representative of the State Council, Dr. Mencinger. This is because no one has actually opposed the establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University in the National Assembly. You all stressed that you support this under certain questions about what this would result from and what this would bring to us. So far, 43 members have signed the Charter of Establishment and it is projected to be signed by autumn. It is also satisfactory that the Charter was signed by all four Slovenian universities as well as SAZAS. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree that the law must define as many uncertainties as possible, but in the case of a major international project such as the Euro-Mediterranean University, all these issues cannot be resolved by law and certain issues must be left to the treaty between individual members. Surely, the individual members of this treaty will not write that the table is a chair or vice versa, since then something would be wrong with those who would sign something like that. We have also taken into account some amendments, both universities and students, of course those that made sense. And so it's obvious that universities, students, unions didn't cooperate without a proper argument. With regard to the views of the Council of State that the provisions defining the Secretariat of the Council for Higher Education only satisfy the formal requirements laid down in the Constitutional Court decision, we must point out in the New Slovenia Group that we cannot, through a decision of the Constitutional Court. For the Constitutional Court did not say anywhere how the world must be composed, nor did it decide. Therefore, the discussion of a potential conflict of interest is also irrelevant and obviously of some other interest. At the request of the Council of State that the Director of the Secretariat should have, in addition to the required work experience, a doctorate of science, the question is, of course, why such a high level of education is not required for any management work in other public administration systems, to which the Secretariat ultimately belongs. With regard to assessments of the inadequacy about the status of students and the employment of tuition, we can only say that they must shoulder the burden of this responsibility of those colleges and colleges that offered the students programmes without having the appropriate legal basis for this. And Dr. Mencinger must know what those institutions are. This law only solves a situation that was not caused by the Ministry but was caused by certain higher education institutions. In the New Slovenia Group we will once again support this law. And we also count on the judgment of the other parliamentary groups to act for the well-being of the students and for the well-being of the reputation of Slovenia in the world. We do not imagine that the signing of the letter of intent would prejudge our legal order, nor would it, which is set forth in this law, despite the veto voted. And if I finish, we can't get past the conclusion already contained in the old Slovenian river that if "fowls" were to burn, Slovenia would probably burn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Kramberger on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary! Mr. Jože Mencinger, a member of the Council of State, a colleague and a colleague! In our parliamentary group, the Group of the Slovenian People's Party will once again support the law on amendments and additions to the law on higher education, as it follows the requirements of the Constitutional Court decisions concerning the regulation of the Office of Higher Education. On the other hand, it also regulates the position of graduates, the university's university study programmes so far, which were enrolled in Master's degree programmes in 2005 and 2006. It is also very important that the law provides the basis for the implementation of the Euro-Mediterranean university project. The Constitutional Court has concluded that the system whereby the professional, organisational and administrative tasks for the Higher Education Council are carried out by an authority within the Ministry is systematically inconsistent and as such inconsistent with Article 2 of the Constitution. In our parliamentary group, we supported the proposal that the Office for Higher Education, as a body of the Ministry, be transformed into a Secretariat of the Council, chaired by the Director of the Secretariat, appointed by the Higher Education Council. In this way, we believe that professional service is given optimal independence. It seems to us that the secretariat will also be independent in financial terms, as it will be a self-sustaining budgetary consumer. Colleagues and colleagues! We have also supported the law because we agree that a graduate of the university's university study programmes, which were enrolled in second-degree Master's degree programmes in 2005 and 2006, gives them the opportunity to enroll in the 2008/2009 study programmes for the Master's degree in Science and the Doctorate of Science. The National Council, in its request for re-decision, states that a whole range of new issues are opening up, which can have a profound impact on our higher education space. Articles that lay the legal basis for the establishment of the International Union of Universities should leave a large room of manoeuvre for different interpretations. In our Group, we believe that the changes brought by law really have a profound impact on higher education, but in a positive sense. In our view, the Euro-Mediterranean University project for Slovenia is extremely important both politically and scientifically. The project supports a few less than 40 countries and more than 100 universities, giving him a regional note. The Euro-Mediterranean University is also of great importance for intercultural dialogue and for the promotion of our country alone. In the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, we will once again support the law, as it brings good solutions for the elimination of constitutional inconsistencies and proposals of great importance to Slovenia and the wider regional area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mrs Majda Shirca, on behalf of the Zares Group, also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to the audience. Today we have heard that the State Council has been conspiring. I believe it was awkward for you to get together today and bring everyone to work so you can push the decision against the decision of the State Council. But it was also said by a student and a representative of the biggest opposition party that the State Council dictates that it is insurmountable, that it arrogantly treats the material, that it has an arrogant attitude and that the toy and that it does everything that comes to mind was addressed to the Doctor of the Professor of the State Council. This, of course, is the undermining of some of the rules that we agreed on in this country decades ago. At the same time, in the entire position of all parties, there are more or less at all times two concepts in this amendment or in this veto. There is a mix of decisions relating to the establishment of a Euro-Mediterranean university that is forgiving in light, as interpreted, also to the legally non-resistible laws we are talking about today and decided by the Council of State. And let me remind you that this is a proposal that is uncoordinated, which was not the product of negotiation, nor did it survive a critical and judgmental judgment. This law had happened something that had happened in the past, when this ministry was led by someone else who had to leave, exactly the same. It was a material that no more or less had any concerted agreement with representatives and users, that is to say with higher education institutions that were not critically dealt with and that was not the result of an agreement. Mr. Zupan had to leave for this, but the school wasn't strong enough. And let me also say that in the Group of Members, we have never really opposed the international university in question, which today interferes with the consideration of this law. However, we have always opposed those solutions that are not appropriate and precisely in this law, which is why we have also proposed the withdrawal of the law and proposed our own version, which would have those items that such a law really needs. It is said that the law should propose a solution with an independent evaluation and accreditation institution, bodies that could actually regulate such matter in the right way. You played, I think you played the Constitutional Court's decision. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has told you this, but this is no longer valid in this mandate. He can run her over. And here is the problem of the credibility of Slovenia, about which today has been so much talk from every representative and representative of the parliamentary group, including the representative of the government. That's what we say. It's the credibility of our country, so we don't smile. We smile when we adopt laws that do not contain legal judgment or that are not even consistent with what the Constitutional Court has said. You can wave your hand, Mr. Pojbich, but what does that mean? This means that these laws will have to be rectified once. Isn't that a job that's empty? Is this not a smile of the state of Slovenia before the international public? The University of the Mediterranean has nothing to do with this. It's right that it is, and it's right that there will be others. This is such a small and, of course, a desperate state needs to know, but not by doing it on a shaky foundation, ignoring the independent bodies that the whole of Europe has, but by adding something to the government, and of course it does not respect the agreements. Of course, we cannot support such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. So we are re-voting the adoption of that law. Does anyone want to explain his voice before the vote? I assume that this has already been done in the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. [[The ad in the hall.]] Thank you so much for the heads-up. I just said, I guess. Therefore, if anyone wishes to explain his voice in his own name, please choose. Check-in is on. Mr. Slavko Gaber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. An important project is the one we are deciding on today, at least one part. And it's amazing how superficial, how arrogant and homely the government has embarked on the drafting of a law in such an important project. The Council of State is right to warn us with a veto that marriage is too weak to be confirmed. There are four things to be pointed out in this regard, and four things are not enough. In this country, it will be possible to establish a university to be established, accredited under the level of requirements for the other accreditation of universities. It may adopt programmes that do not meet other requirements for the adoption of higher education programmes in this country. It may have a university that will have authorities that, in terms of meritocratic structure as regards democratic structure, will be under the level of what is prescribed in this country; and what is particularly fun, the union of universities will obviously be able to involve, even some other institutions, I suppose, those who have failed otherwise to meet the conditions for establishing a university in Slovenia. These are the things that interfere with this marriage. If the Government were serious about setting up and supporting the establishment of something in this country that had a tail and head, it would, of course, correct this law in these respects, but of course it does not deserve the law of support.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Mark Pavlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u28	Your Honor! I will support the novelty and I will vote in favour for the following reasons. Of course, marriage changes are not the best, but wise politicians sometimes need to make decisions not only between good and bad but also between bad and worse. And this change is necessary because of the Euro-Mediterranean University, which is pointed out by the future EU Presidency member, which reminds us of the international community that this is the only way we can get additional European funding. It is true, however, that the only legal basis for this university would be an international treaty which, unfortunately, has not been prepared in two years and will be prepared in the near future. The Euro-Mediterranean University now supports a good fifth of our planet; more than 40 countries, dozens of universities, including all four Slovenian universities. But there is always a handful of politicians, politicians, well-guarded student leaders and even state councillors who have not yet been informed that they are not saints, that they are representatives of the people and national interests as we are. They went even further, and I would have been accused in the State Council that I started this project because of my own interests to make my bed after leaving a political career. When I told this to an English friend, he said to me, "So what? Do you have so many regular professors? And by the way, I am a proud professor of the University of Ljubljana, Faculty of Maritime Affairs and Transport, where I am leaving on 1 October this year. Mr. Moshe smiles at me, and I will end up in Latin: Nemo prophet and Patri. Or free after Prešeren: It is difficult to be a prophet in your own country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We're voting. I've suspended the vote. What's wrong with the voting devices? Excuse me? Try again, please. Now he's working. Are all the voting machines okay? We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 11. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on public servants, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Dr. Gregor Virant, Minister of Public Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u30	Good afternoon. Nicely greeted. In view of the mass abandonment of the hall, I hope that it is not a boycott or obstruction and that it can normally represent changes to the law on civil servants. Thus, the essential change brought about by this law is the abolition of professional examinations for state and municipal officials. Instead, each new employee in the public administration will receive some appropriate training. Since this was the main theme of the debate on the working body, let me reiterate the arguments for this solution. First: the added value of the exams does not justify the loss of time and the money that these exams mean. In the case of trainees conducting these professional examinations, the situation is as follows. Many trainees, when they graduate from the traineeship, are not hired by the State Administration, are not hired for an indefinite period of time, and for those who are not accepted, paying and carrying out a professional examination is a net loss of taxpayer money. However, there is no need for those whom we have chosen as the best and then to include them in regular employment, since they have proved to be worth more than any test. For those who enter the administration later, when they have several years of experience or long experience in the economy, we can also say that we will judge their quality by work, and once again we do not have to test this quality by examination. Any new person in public administration should receive adequate training to be familiar with the system of public administration, values and operating methods or the system of state authorities and public administrations and practices. This does not require a long seminar, at which, for example, police officers today learn the details of the European Charter of Local Self-Government or Administrative Procedure, but rather a short and effective in-house seminar is sufficient. In any case, we must train all of us in our jobs on a continuous basis. Competence and therefore qualified for your work must be improved throughout your life, your entire career. A one-time seminar and a one-time exam is too little - it doesn't mean anything. Nothing. Next argument. Which successful company, and I am also talking about large business systems such as: Lek, Krka, Mercator and so on, knows such a bureaucratic way of checking their employees? None. Thus, the professional exams are another of the conundrums, bureaucrat plots, which go to the dump site of history. I must reply in advance to those who will come on the day claiming that I am actually the author of the idea of professional examinations, that I have introduced them as Secretary of State. This is a very funny and practical argument that I often listen to. I have to say in advance that the one who existed in the administration was from the "remembrance". According to my research, there has been at least since 1984, but they have existed before, so I did not introduce them, and as Secretary of State would have been difficult to usurp such authority. The law brings some other useful innovations, such as the basis for hiring top athletes to help and support top sports in Slovenia, and one exception to the general rule under the Labour Relations Act, so that last year's holiday can be used only until 30 June. Although I always wonder why the labour and legal legislation restricts it so much, however, in this law we make an exception for those of our co-workers who were engaged at the EU Presidency who were unable to take their leave in the first half of this year, neither this year nor last year, so the law allows them to take advantage of this holiday even after 30 June and believe it will be very well deserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Drag Koren, President, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u32	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Nice greetings to ministers, co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 45th regular session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants. At the beginning of the meeting, Minister Gregor Virant presented some of the changes introduced by the bill. It is a matter of supplementing the law in the work relating to the keeping of records or to the collection of personal data and establishing the basis for the use of the data contained in those records. In addition, it provides a legal basis for the employment of top athletes and trainers in public administrations. It also allows the use of annual leave for 2008 to some civil servants who were unable to take advantage of this in the first half of 2007. The essential amendments to the draft law constitute solutions that delete the provisions of the law governing the recognition and consequences of the non-use of professional examinations for appointment in title, while at the same time setting out the obligation of officials to work in the administration at the time of employment and continuing training during the period of employment, which is considered to be the duty of public servants. The amendment of the law provides a legal basis for the conduct of professional examinations on the basis of public authority and training and for the completion by external contractors to be selected on the basis of the law governing procurement. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further presented comments that were not taken into account with the coalition amendments. In the debate, the members of the Committee took different views on the proposed solutions relating to the suspension of the professional examination for appointment to the title. The DeSUS, Zares, LDS and SD groups have tabled amendments to this Article to maintain the current regime. On the contrary, other members of the committee opposed the amendments tabled to maintain the professional examinations. They considered that the quality and efficiency of the work required the knowledge acquired through education and training, and that knowledge was not necessarily tested in the form of an expert examination. Therefore, it is more important than a one-time professional examination that employees show up at work and that they constantly and consistently renew their knowledge and develop professionally. The solution also follows the objective of removing administrative barriers, which the Government is already working on for its entire mandate. In response to the concerns expressed in the debate, the representative stressed that they were terminating the examination because the added value they brought to these examinations did not justify the time and money spent for that purpose. Employment in public administration is based on selection procedures that ensure that the best candidates are selected for individual jobs. The quality check is therefore already ensured in this context and there is no need for further examination of the knowledge at the examination. The Committee then adopted amendments to SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS by Articles 8, 33 and 37, and all other amendments were rejected by the Committee. The amendments adopted are included in the supplementary draft law which forms an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of this bill at its 37th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the draft law today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Penalties under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Lovro Sturm, Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The new law on liability of legal persons for offences is primarily editorial in nature and is bound by the adoption of the new Penal Code. However, on this occasion, we also want to round up this novel, and this crucial, criminal law system against economic crime. Two areas that can be used for criminal services in this area are currently not covered; that is, participation in public calls and trading in financial instruments, so we want to add them as collateral penalties in paragraphs 15a and 15b, and this way systematically regulate criminal law against economic crime and corruption. The prohibition of participation in public calls is linked to various abuses, which are also complemented by criminal offences under the Penal Code. Such offences include, for example, fraud at the expense of the European Community, fraud in obtaining a loan or benefit, falsification or destruction of business documents, treason and unjustifiable acquisition of business secrets, hacking into the business information system, market abuse. These crimes, and in particular corruption crimes committed by officials, can obtain public contracts, which is partly in practice happening in us and in the world. As regards the foreign penalty, it should also be pointed out that the type of criminal offence involved. These are crimes of misuse of internal information, fraud in securities trading, counterfeiting and the use of counterfeit securities, and are also characteristic of money laundering and tax evasion. Even in dealing with financial instruments, we can link these crimes to corruption crimes committed by officials. By laying down new foreign penalties, the court will be able to prohibit legal persons from participating in public tenders and from trading in financial instruments for a period of three to ten years or from one to eight years. The extension of the forms of sanctions with two foreign penalties means a greater possibility of adapting to the punishment of legal persons in relation to the offence committed. At the same time, we follow the Council of Europe recommendation on the liability of legal persons for a crime committed in the execution of economic activities. The government considers this law an important contribution to the fight against economic crime and corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Drag Koren, President, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting to Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, the Minister, fellow Members. At its 44th meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes. In the introduction, the representative of the proposer said that the purpose of the proposal was to comply with the proposal for a new penal code. Since the new criminal code will also change the series of individual chapters and articles, it is essential to amend the law on the liability of legal persons for criminal offences, since it uses a number of references to the specific provisions of the existing criminal code in the text of its articles in connection with criminal law. The draft law also provides for by-laws, prohibitions on participation in public tenders under Article 15a and prohibitions on trade in shares under Article 15b. The court will be able to bring criminal offences against the economy and corruption crimes against officials. With them, the court will be able to prohibit legal persons from participating in public tenders and from trading in financial instruments for a period of three to ten years or from one to eight years. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further pointed out that the validity or legal system of the bill was questionable, given that the new criminal code had not yet been adopted. Most of the written comments made by this service were taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. With regard to Article 8, this is the new Article 15a and Article 15b, he said that both sanctions in the draft law were too widely written and, in particular, Article 15b, which was so widely laid down that it could in fact constitute the indirect abolition of a legal person. The representative of the Commission of the State Organisation of the State Council said that the Commission was joining the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service with regard to Article 15a and Article 15b and expressed its concerns about the proposed amount of the penalty and the trend of the criminal policy, since the system of penalties was rounded up so that legal persons could be given the opportunity to confiscate their property, and the worst penalty was to terminate the legal person. In the debate on the draft law, some members highlighted the inadequacy of the legislative procedure with regard to this bill, since its adoption is linked to a criminal code which has not yet been adopted and asked why the substance of this proposal is not regulated by a criminal code. They drew attention to the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Council of State and wondered why they were ignored. They also proposed the withdrawal of the bill from the legislative procedure, since if the penal code was not adopted again, its fate would be inconsequential. Today we know it's not like that. Amendments of the coalition SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Articles 1, 3, 6, 8, 12, 13, 16 and 18 were tabled in the bill, which were also adopted by all. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. However, the updated proposal is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u38	Hello, everybody! In the Slovenian National Party Group, we will be pleased to support the law on amendments and additions to the law on liability of legal persons for offences. These are changes that we have actually been expecting all of this mandate, and should actually be adopted already, it would be best, in the first months after 2004. I think the things that are ready are real, right. In these areas, criminal policy must be subordinated to and prevented from a terrible state in Slovenia. The tycunization of Slovenia is still in great swing, even though it has been a bit cut in its fins lately; so is the case. Therefore, in the SNS Group, we welcome the opportunity for legal persons to also be deprived of their property, since many times the property is acquired in a very strange way. From day to day, we follow the newspapers, the media, how some gentlemen came from mechanics to multimillionaires, from municipal officials to multimillionaires, in fact billionaires, not millionaires - and no one! That's why this law is right. Maybe he's got one mistake. The issue of bankruptcy should also be dealt with in marriage. The bankruptcy in Slovenia is a horrendous form that always throws on the ground not of the one who declares bankruptcy, but of those who are in a debt relationship with the person who puts his company or the organization in bankruptcy. We haven't fixed this yet. Those who throw the company into bankruptcy will quietly open a new company in 14 days and, in their own words, "pull" an additional number and so many people. Perhaps someone would say that Slovenians should not be so naive and so greedy as to get involved in such matters, but I think it is necessary to settle this at the level of legislation. That is why I expect the Justice Ministry to deal with the issue of bankruptcy in one of the following novels, not only those who put businesses in bankruptcy, but also the issue of bankruptcy managers, who usually or quite often go in this direction, to burn down the few remaining assets for their own wages, and then simply declare bankruptcy and say that there is nothing to be shared; one is clean, and one is without money and, at the same time, is existentially threatened. However, in accordance with all these legislative procedures, the issue of the courts and the prosecution will also have to be addressed. As long as the judges and prosecutors have a life sentence, something will not change much. Judges and prosecutors should be on a detour every eight years, they should review their operation, and those lazy people who do nothing should be easily put on the road. Not to be taken away from them, he may be a judge, but let him be a judge who, for example, sweeps the court, because it is also one service that is appropriate and is the right one for many, who today bears the name of a judge or a judge. It should be known that now that we have had a judicial strike, I do not think anyone in Slovenia has felt it either. No wonder, after all, they work so little that they didn't notice that they're even less working. And as long as we have such orderly courts and prosecutions, we cannot expect any visible improvement. That is why I think that this is the next first task in the next term, for judges and prosecutors to be deprived of a permanent mandate. In the interest of this urgency, he speaks several facts every day. I think it's high time we took that into account. But we'll be happy to support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President-in-Office! If we go back to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons and leave these strikes a little bit away because they have nothing to do with this law. I would like to say that, above all, for the implementation of anyone who has already done so today, it seems that the "fosh" has to a certain extent become an Olympic sport in our country. But if I go back to law school. In the Lip Group, we do not have a terrible feeling that this law introduces anything new, provides for anything that has not already been law in some contexts, in certain articles and in certain paragraphs of the Penal Code. Corruption has been banned. But there are some new aside penalties as a fruit, and we will probably hear at least eight presentations today in the word tycoonization, tycoon, and I don't know what else. It is interesting, however, that probably none of the eight performers here today will hear what tycunization is, who are the tycoons and where you have heard that word, except from the Prime Minister of the Government. Instead of tycoons, we could also use words, I don't know, those who broke the law when it comes to economic crime, when it comes to the abuse of information, internal information and such things. This tycoon, it's just some drawn story that you'll probably all be using. I hope that if this law is confirmed - and in the Lipa Group, given that it does not really introduce anything terrible, we will gladly support it - that this law will apply to all, including those, and I will use this meaningless word of yours to the tycoons who are the tycoons of this government. And we know there are a lot of them in the Maribor area. Some have also mentioned my predecessor, from mechanics to millionaires, from family that promotes climate everywhere in Slovenia, even when they do not work, like, in this National Assembly. I hope that this law will apply to them, including these tycoons. That this is an "inter partes" law, which is literally pre-election, because such a law as it is before us could be passed regardless of whether the penal code is adopted. The old penal code could also confirm such a law in October 2004 or November 2004. This did not have to be done before the elections, because, as I said at the outset, it does not introduce anything completely new. We cannot find one thing in this national assembly, for example, that government had no courage or knowledge to deal with it. In particular, North-East Slovenia, Styria, Prekmurje and this end, and Koroška, were given various strange acquisitions. And even when we're talking about steel industry, let's say in Koroška, and all the strange bankruptcys that were so much in Styria that if we make a list, A4 format is not enough to mention them. That's not what this law is about. I don't know, maybe this government was involved in some sort of case, and maybe that's why she didn't want to legalize the time. The law is definitely written, I will say, for the first time not entirely, I will not say superficially, but it does not make any war against any economic crime or anything like that. This law is not the fruit of this very extraordinary session, which was so urgent and you proposed it in coalition, this law has been written before. Since that very session, where you have proved dialogue between one of the Members and between the President of the Government, nothing has happened so far, it has simply gone to waste because you probably have no knowledge or have been given so much insight into tycunization that someone has also seen themselves in this story. And another question that comes to mind. We write laws for people, laws have to be life. And when I look at this marriage, I think it's a very important question. If this marriage is confirmed today, and it is right - will people live better or the same? I think so. Therefore, to speak of any kind of law that is before us as necessary is mere foolishness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party or the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Responsibility of Legal Persons for Crimes. This is one piece of legislative change in the mosaic of the necessary regulatory changes to reduce or limit economic crime and corruption. There are two sets of amendments to the law. The first set is linked to the amendment of the penal code and it is more about changes in editorial nature or the renumbering of articles, and as far as this is concerned, we have no reservations. On the other hand, as far as the content itself is concerned, it is important that the law adds two foreign penalties, namely the prohibition of participation and the prohibition of trade, that they may be pronounced on the basis of a criminal offence against the economy or corruption offences against officials. With these aside penalties, the Court will be able to prohibit participation in public tendering for trading in financial instruments for a period of six months to five years. The second change in content changes in penalties. It is logical that the penalties from the SITs turn from tolars to euros, which is more important for us, but they will also increase. Of course, some have doubts about these penalties, that they are exacerbated too much, that they are too high, that it is also disputed that it may also result in the confiscation of property and similar things and similar things. However, the practice over the last ten and more years in the field of economic crime has shown that some simply go beyond all borders, that almost nothing stops them and that the increase in penalties I think at least something will contribute to the possibility that some might think a little more deeply before they break the law. The content of these changes, of course, follows our efforts to reduce economic crime or the number of crimes in this area and to reduce or maximize corruption. That is why we will also support these changes in the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, chairman. Let me say at the outset that Nova Slovenija will also support the proposal of the law on the liability of legal persons for crimes, because we are convinced that it brings good news. As has already been said, the law itself brings about two sets of changes. The first set refers to the connection to the newly adopted criminal code, because of the new criminal code, several laws need to be amended, in particular those which are linked to this law, which refers to the relationship to individual chapters and also to the articles of the criminal code. I think that, given that the new penal code has been adopted, no one can oppose it. The second set of changes, which is a more important set, at least in New Slovenia we assess, but it refers to criminal corruption, such as bribery, giving gifts and changing other benefits, and gives this novel law the possibility of saying rather severe foreign penalties. The first is to prohibit participation in public procurement tenders for a period of 3 to 8 years. In this case, the contracting authority shall also have a special obligation to exclude from the procurement procedure any candidate or tenderer in the case of a legal person who has been sentenced to such a penalty. In the past, there have been more irregularities in both the world and us in public procurement, but there is no appropriate sanctioning mechanism. In the field of public procurement, it is a very large sum of money and money for all taxpayers, so in the New Slovenia Group we believe that procedures should be conducted transparently and appropriate sanctions should be available in case of irregularities. And these changes actually give rise to this sanction. The Court also has the possibility to impose a foreign penalty against trading financial instruments of a legal person in an organised market. This sanction is linked to criminal offences, the abuse of internal information, the provision of data, the counterfeiting and use of securities, but can also be linked to the corruption of officials. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that these changes will result in a reduction in crime, a reduction in economic crime and corruption. In the National Assembly, we have heard a lot and a lot about how we all advocate corruption, economic crime, and these changes to the law will be the basis for the courts to impose penalties in these cases too. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that economic crime in Slovenia is present, that corruption is certainly present in Slovenia, so any change in this direction is welcome. To pursue fraud, fraud, betrayal of business secrets, we think it's right. Let me finish; once again, in the New Slovenia Group, we support the solutions to the amendment of the law on the liability of legal persons for criminal offences, but we are convinced that even given that the new criminal code has been adopted and has also been reconfirmed by veto, there is no reason not to obtain unanimous support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u46	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Good-bye! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes, as this is primarily about changes in editorial nature. The Penal Code has been adopted and it is therefore necessary to amend the articles relating to the articles in the new Criminal Code. This will ensure the smooth application of this law. We also support the addition in the form of two additional by-laws which the court will be able to pass on for offences for economic and corruption offences against officials. We are aware that so far two areas have not been covered that can be used for crimes. These are participation in public tendering and trading in financial instruments. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we think it is appropriate to legislate two new foreign penalties, which would constitute an optional form of punishment of legal persons on the basis of the principal penalties imposed. The prohibition of participation in public calls and the prohibition of financial instruments are linked to various abuses, which are also complemented by criminal offences under the criminal code. These crimes, in particular corruption crimes committed by officials, can be used to obtain public contracts, which has already occurred in practice. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group it seems appropriate to prohibit participation in public tenders for a period of 3 to 10 years and trade in financial instruments for a period of 1 year to 8 years. In the Group of Members, we believe that extending the forms of sanctions with two foreign penalties means a greater possibility of adapting to the punishment of legal persons according to the crime committed, so we will support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.15. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions under the Regular Procedure The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Lovro Sturm, Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Members and Members! The following are essential amendments and additions to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The proposal for a novelty was prepared to ensure that criminal sanctions are carried out as efficiently as possible, as well as more economically and professionally, while clearly defining the rights of convicts and ensuring the protection of those rights. The next purpose of the law is to remove administrative obstacles and relieve professional and other employees of institutions, thereby significantly reducing unnecessary administrative burdens on prison staff. According to the changes in the law, guardians will be equalized to holidays, since by the new two, judicial officers will be security officers. In this way, additional skills will be ensured for the current officers to perform works in workshops and better security coverage, while at the same time there will be no duplication of their work. Judicial police officers are also expected to ensure the protection of the buildings of the judicial authorities in the future. In order to relieve employees and reduce the overcrowding of Slovenian prisons, the proposal for a new law places greater emphasis on alternative forms of imprisonment. The proposal for a new law, in the light of enlargement, lays down a new duty for conditional discharges to prisons to examine, under official duty, the fulfilment of conditions for parole, which are for the first time on the sentence of imprisonment and which are not sentenced to imprisonment for a period of more than five years. For the remaining convicts, the institution shall examine the fulfilment of the conditions for conditional release after two thirds of the sentence. This will ensure a more modern and modern treatment of prisoners and detainees, which is in line with European prison rules, as well as with Council of Europe documents. New developments in early release are also important for unloading in Slovenian prisons. A more detailed regulation of the rights of convicts from work or work in the context of working therapy and rights that do not belong or are limited is a further chapter or a further topic of this law, allowing convicted persons and institutions with whom they can be contacted or visited. The work of convicts is stimulated in a variety of ways, so that prison benefits depend largely on the fact, whether convicted or not. However, the education of convicts has the same status as it does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration, Justice as a mother's labour force. I ask the Chairman of this Committee, Mr Drag Koren, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee, at its first 50th emergency meeting, discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. Representatives of SDS, Res, Lipa and LDS members announced obstruction because of their disagreement with the way in which the proposal was addressed, and therefore did not participate in the meeting of the committee. On the other hand, the representative of the applicant pointed out at the outset that the purpose of the proposal for a law is in particular to align the provisions of the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions with the amended and newly enforced legislation and with binding international treaties. An important solution to the bill's proposal, which will significantly detract from the work of professional workers in institutions for the cessation of prison sentences in the management of administrative procedures, is the amendment of Article 8 which reduces the number of administrative matters in which the general administrative procedure law is applied subsidiaryly. The bill highlights alternative forms of sentences, introducing a so-called weekend sentence for all convicts who have been sentenced to prison for up to 24 months, following the proposed amendment of up to 36 months. The bill also introduces house imprisonment for convicts up to six months, following the proposed amendment of up to nine months. These innovations will contribute to reducing the number of prisoners in institutions and thus to decommissioning institutions, as well as to reducing costs and improving the situation of convicts. Work in general will be possible as a replacement for the prison sentence of up to one year, following the proposed amendment of up to two years. The draft law also provides some new solutions to the institution of conditional leave, which can be ordered by the parole commission without supervision or with protective supervision. The news is also proposed in relation to the non-locking prison, which ensures to a greater extent the primary purpose of this institution is to pay the fine. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service further raised the question of the link between the solutions contained in this bill and the proposed regulation in the proposal for a criminal code. It also drew attention to the shortcomings and, in some cases, to the over-explanation of the proposed provisions. With regard to the amendments to each article, she said that a large part of their comments were taken into account by the amendments tabled by the SDS, NSI and SLS. In response to the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service, the representative stressed that the objective of the provisions allowing authorised persons in institutions direct electronic access to records, removal of administrative barriers, simplification of work and the speed of access to data they need in their work. Access to data is more secure than access based on written requests under the assumption of a secure electronic route and traceability. The Committee adopted all amendments to Article 97 of the SDS, NSI and SLS MPs, with the exception of the amendment, have become irrelevant amendments to those coalition groups by Articles 29, 39 and 46. In its opinion, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 29, 39, 46, 97 and 97a, b, c and c. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. A complementary bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 37th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 16.6.2008. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me, Minister, the content of the amendment has already been exposed under one other law, this was the Penal Code, and we opened this dilemma to the effect that the article that ordered instead of imprisonment was a punishment working for the general benefit. At that time, we noted that the content of this article was incomplete and that a sub-legislative act should be adopted which would specify more precisely which works are included in this set, who are the institutions that can participate in the enforcement of this criminal sanction, and in particular to determine the method, procedure and, as has already been said, the list of areas of performance for the general benefit. At the same time, it is also necessary to designate a body to oversee the enforcement of this criminal sanction, as well as the work of the operators and providers of this work. I say that what the Government has written in the context of Article 10 in the first paragraph still does not follow our proposal, because the social work centre, i.e. the institution that falls within the framework of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has been the institution over the last three and a half years that has constantly been entrusted with work, work, work, and neither have the capacity or employability to follow these new tasks. At the same time, I say that the Centre for Social Work is not an institution in our country that could fully assume the tasks of another law, the Penal Code or the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. The Centre for Social Work is a different institution and must not be transformed into a repressive institution if you want. That is why I say that the Ministry of Justice is the authority responsible for establishing clear rules and tasks, and is also concerned with the performance of these tasks. In the Lipa Group, we propose that the Ministry of Justice draw up a sub-legislative act which will clearly identify works, tasks and, lastly, bodies which may participate in the context of Article 10 or in the enforcement of criminal sanctions imposed by the new criminal code. However, I ask the Ministry of Justice to respond to the dilemma that we have raised or to the content of the amendment that we are proposing. At the same time, I would like to point out that we had this dilemma open in the debate on the criminal code and that Mr Secretary of State, Mr Marolt, has made it very clear that the Ministry will examine this possibility and that if they examine the matter in this way, they will include it in the amendment to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. However, it is clear that this option has not been examined by the Ministry, at least I do not have the data to allow the Ministry to think in this direction, that a sub-legislative act should be drawn up, setting out in more detail the way, procedure and list of areas of execution for general benefit.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General with co-workers! When you quickly read the amendment proposed by the Lipa Group, you can find that it is difficult to oppose the idea that the area of work will be regulated in general benefit by a rule. However, in the New Slovenia Group, we have carefully considered this amendment and we would like to stress that the Ministry of Justice cannot in any way be the authority responsible for the issue of this regulation, as the proposed amendments to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions for the preparation, management and supervision of the enforcement of work can in general be passed on to the centres for social work, which do not belong, as we all know, to the competence of the Ministry of Justice. Community sanctions, including the general benefit of performing work, should be organised according to international documents, in particular the recommendations of the Council of Europe, so that posted convicts can remain in their home environment and do not come into contact with the prison environment. It also follows from the Council of Europe's recommendations that these sanctions should be regulated in a comprehensive manner, at one point, that this area is managed by a service which is adequately qualified and is present in local communities. Social Work Centres in the Republic of Slovenia are already in charge of these tasks for prosecutors and minors. In view of the distribution of the network of social work centres across the Republic of Slovenia, they are also the only existing service with conditions, knowledge and presence in local communities for the uniform, qualitative and transparent implementation of this sanction for all categories of offenders and offenders. In Slovenia, the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions has only six prisons and personnel that are not qualified to operate in local communities. The practice so far has shown that the centres have done this work professionally and well. The current regime, when two services participate in the implementation of this measure at the same time, has proved to be an irrational duplication of tasks and competences. This is just a few reasons that give a thorough consideration and shows that the law or amendment to Article 10 of the Law, at least by the New Slovenia Group, will not receive support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mr. Horvath, one explanation. Social work centres have an employed person within their services, mostly by caring for some kind of psychosocial rehabilitation, without even psychosocial rehabilitation, working with prisoners or juvenile offenders. But what I want to stress is that you are imposing on social work centres, which are already facing a number of new tasks today, which are due to the laws they have adopted within this government, but at the same time you have not taken care of additional human resources reinforcements for social work centres. This means, in other words, that social work centres, which are not a repressive body, will not fall within the framework of criminal legislation or the enforcement of criminal sanctions if you wish. At the same time, this means that they will have some deficit in other areas of expertise and this is bad. Under the Criminal Code, the Ministry of Justice, which is responsible for criminal law in our country, has introduced a new option. This is the end of punishment at home or in the context of so-called charity, humanitarianism. Everything's fine and fine. However, the Ministry of Justice cannot place the full responsibility for the implementation of these criminal sanctions under the auspices of another ministry, the Ministry of Labour, the family and social affairs. We do not have an answer or the Minister agrees with this action, nor do we have an answer as to how social work centres will ensure that such enforcement of criminal sanctions is carried out, nor do we have an answer as to what can be done in connection with this "humanity work" in the pronunciations. Is it possible, I don't know, to clean up sidewalks, or can a school security service be performed? We don't have clear limits. Therefore, in the Lipa Group, we propose that the Ministry of Justice, which has invented a new way of putting up a prison sentence, establish a sub-legal act to be followed by a body responsible for carrying out the tasks. And let me know if we have centres for social work whose purpose is different from the administrations for the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Why, why do we take full responsibility for a social service if we have an administration to enforce criminal sanctions? I didn't understand that explanation you were about to make. I have not understood the essence of this work, except that we place an important part of our responsibility on institutions that are not able to follow all the tasks they have been entrusted with right now. Let me remind you, colleague Horvat, also within the framework of the legislation we have adopted under the auspices of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Remember - the law on the prevention of domestic violence. Even then, all the tasks were assigned to social work centres, and they warned that they could not, could not. They already have too much work to do today, and they simply can no longer do what they should do, which is basically counseling; advising customers, users. Even now, social work centres are only becoming operational services. Operating service and that's bad. In other words, I am afraid that this means that in time you will not be given another mandate, God forbid, but that you will come in time with a law that will really only be classified as an operational service for citizens and, on the other hand, with some concessions you will introduce a private paying service for social protection or social work counselling. This is a poor journey if we want to strengthen the role of advisory work and, above all, the accessibility of this service to users. Once again, the Ministry of Justice, which has prescribed some new criminal sanctions, is the only authority that is competent to draw up a sub-legislative act in which the game instructions will be clearly defined if you wish. If the Ministry of Justice is unable to do so and places responsibility on the centres for social work, this is only once more confirmation that the Ministry has undertaken new criminal legislation in a non-systematic, superficial and incomplete manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I did not have much hope that the applicants would understand our arguments by rejecting this amendment, but I would also like to remind my colleague Barbara Žgajner Tavš that the National Assembly has adopted an important document, namely, the Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the period 2007-2011. Let's be exact. In addition to the above facts, which I argued in the first stage, in Novi Slovenija, we would like to point out that it is precisely the Resolution on the National Programme for the Prevention and Suppression of Crime for the period 2007-2011 in point 4.12.4.2, which lists strategies to achieve objectives in the field of interinstitutional cooperation, that "the role and legalization of social welfare authorities in the prevention of crime, rehabilitation or reintegration of perpetrators and support for victims of crime must be strengthened and legally defined." The provision by which a specific authority would be obliged to issue a regulation within the framework in question would, as a result, be substantively disputed and formally inadequate. So there are additional reasons why we reject this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u59	Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u60	Thank you very much. In two sentences, I would like to add my thinking. So we have decided that it is possible for the court to replace the prison sentence with work for the general public benefit. And this work in general public benefit is, in fact, much, in various institutions, in a nursing home, in hospitals, even in municipal services, for example, in the field of municipal activities. And I think this solution is that this work controls and keeps records of social work centres, one of the best solutions. I don't even know what my colleagues are actually trying to achieve here on my right with this proposal. We have these centres in all administrative units already organised, they already have their structure, they already keep these records today, why not add that they keep records in this area. I don't know what's so controversial right now, and what's so much to explain here now that these centers can't do that and so on. So if we're pursuing some rationality, economy, and a good marriage solution, then it's the only meaningful decision. Anything else would mean additional financial resources and inefficient services. But social work centres are already trained and, of course, I absolutely support this decision, and I think it would make no sense anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Even with the right-hand colleague of the predecessor, you didn't probably understand, but that's your problem, not mine. Look, we're not just talking about who should be doing this. What, in what way and why the social work center, you forgot to talk about it. Today, about 20,000 people are covered by one worker at social work centres. Now we're assigning her new duties. I don't know, Mr. Sok, I looked at your election score, it wasn't nearly that high, for 20,000 people, and you're not even covering what you got in the elections, and now you're asking one of the workers to pay a substantial lower salary. Another point when we talk about resolutions is how important the resolutions are to this government. We had a resolution to fight corruption, and you're canceling the anti-corruption commission. Therefore, the reference, such as this, to resolutions is irrelevant. And another thing you don't want to do or you don't understand. We're not talking about prevention. We're talking about people who have already been convicted and have to go through with the punishment. Can a kleptoman work in a retirement home? I don't think so, because he's gonna steal what they don't have in there. And the Ministry of Justice just doesn't know that or doesn't want to do that. I don't know if you had a vision in your head of how to do this, but it seems to me that a submarital act is a trifle that can be prepared by such professional services and such an expert minister in essence -- not overnight, but in three days, for sure, if you know what you're doing. If you don't know, tell me, we've moved everything together to a social work centre, to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and let them screw around from here as they know. We did it because it's a little popular. The amendment itself, as proposed by the Lipa Group of Members, does not define anything other than what I have just told you. You're the one who sets the penal code, sanctions for crimes, crimes and more. This is not the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs! This ministry has work over its head because of the social situation in this country, to which you or this government have helped, and does not impose any other work on them if you are in charge of this area. You determine the amount of punishment for an individual offence. You define crimes. We have previously passed one law that lays down new crimes in the field of economic crime. Now we're just putting it all together into one ministry. I even advise you, given that the Ministry of Transport or the Ministry of Agriculture will soon finish its work. Let them determine that! It can also be a public benefit to sow in the fields if you want. Come on, don't avoid responsibility! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please, you have the word, not the replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u64	Because he named me. That's all I'm trying to fix, is that one of the employees in the social work center across administrative units covers 20,000 people, of course, that's not true. This suggests that Mr Zagorac has no idea what he's talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I think some people really exaggerate in this debate. [[...]] [[It's a debate in yapping.]] [[...]] Can I? Because certain activities concerning charitable works on the part of, if I may say so, convicts are already doing so on the same basis as is now proposed here. I would like to point out this by stressing that local communities and social work centres are very well involved in all other activities, such as home aid, and that I will not list everything else, where - as far as the human resources aspect of the Centre for Social Work is concerned - it is also being coordinated on that segment. And look, the proposal that we have here on the table to move this to the ministry that is proposing the law - it does not seem appropriate to me. Why should not the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, under which the social work centres belong, carry out this task? After all, this means only coordination between those who are responsible for or will be responsible for the social work centre, and in fact those who, either the institution or the institution that will actually have temporary - if I may say so, under the terms - are "employees of this man" to do the work that could actually be done in that institution, it is appropriate that he does what he can there in order to succeed. I have to say, these things are already running because this is being done. I know a case where the director of the Institute for Culture, Tourism and Development of Rogatec told me two months ago that a person came to him for two months in order to serve his sentence - two months repairing the fence, a wooden fence at this institution. Of course they sent him from the social work center. There were no problems with his work, as regards coordination between the institution and the social work centre, and this person is also what he was told to do. And that's probably how it's gonna be in the future. And I also believe that, in fact, the Centre for Social Work, as a professional institution, will certainly be more likely to take care of which institution this person is to be allocated, because, in fact, the Centre for Social Work is also dealing with these matters. And I think that the proposal is good and I must tell you, as well as intersectorally coordinated, that I do not understand you the most. I don't know why you insist so strongly that this should stay at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Look, the essence of the amendment that we propose to the Lipa Group is to lay down the rules of the game. The Minister responsible for criminal policy is the Minister of Justice. Under the Penal Code, the Minister of Justice has prescribed a new sentence, which is to stop the sentence if you want to, at home, say, outside the prison. To this end, ex-cons or persons who have committed a crime and who have been convicted of a criminal offence will serve a general benefit. And what the Ministry of Justice should do is to draw up a sub-legislative act setting out in more detail the way, procedure and list of areas of enforcement work in general benefit in cooperation with the other ministries. I also say, it is not only the Ministry of Labour that is competent, but the Ministry of Health is probably the Ministry that can add something to this sub-legislative act. And how important is this sub-law, or the rules of the game to be clearly defined, is the speech of the speaker in front of me, who even said that these persons would be employed; being employed means something other than doing work for the general benefit. I hope we don't even get into practice when the prisoners get paid for serving their sentences. And last but not least, respected colleagues and colleagues, help at home can be performed by a person who is trained or has so-called "skills" to perform help at home. Not everyone can help you at home. I believe that a number of persons who have been convicted may be assisted at home or could be trained to do so. However, I believe that it is not possible for everyone to do so, so once again it is necessary to draw up a sub-legislative act in which the rules of the game are clearly defined.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. In part, I agree with this amendment proposed by the Lipa Group, in particular in this respect, that, if it is - and this is the case - that work in general replaces the sentence of imprisonment for up to two years, means that some general conditions in which this punishment may be carried out in general benefit should nevertheless be clear. Thus, if a prisoner is sent to prison and there is a prison sentence of up to two years, this law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions provides very precisely for the conditions under which the prisoner will execute or cease the sentence there. However, when it comes to substitute punishment, which is a work of general benefit, there is nothing clear, except that the institution responsible for social work is somehow leading and overseeing. Therefore, in part, as I say, I agree with the intention of the Lip Group that somehow the Minister of Justice, or the Ministry of Justice, should also be more specific about this part of the penalty in order to clarify the implementation of this penalty. But it bothers me, let's just say that they would impose this on this ministry to do so by means of a sub-law, precisely because it is essentially about the conditions for the enforcement of criminal sanctions when it comes to such essential components of a regime that is subject to a prisoner. However, I think it would be right, especially because it is such a very sensitive matter that it is not all within the competence of the centre for social work alone. And perhaps it is also necessary that someone who is known who is responsible for the enforcement of criminal sanctions should also work to receive or read reports on how this is done and also to oversee this enforcement. Thus, if it were found that such enforcement of such criminal sanctions was carried out in an inadequate manner, then it would also be possible to propose a different method of enforcement and other procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljublješek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say, when I listen to this debate and I am also trying to understand my colleague and colleague from the Lip Group in their advocacy of their amendment, and when I look at its contents, on the other hand, article 10 of the proposed novel, I believe that Article 10 clearly defines. Performing work in general will prepare, manage and supervise a centre for social work, in cooperation with the employment authorities in the area. These are two professional institutions, a professional institution, not a person, but also, as stated in the last paragraph, a local self-governing community which is obliged to provide the work of an executive organisation for the execution of this work. So these are basically three institutions, the authorities that take care of this. The convicted person, together with the organisation in which he will work, and the competent centre shall agree, without the consent of the convicted person, not possible. And I think this article quite clearly defines this. The proposed amendment, however, suggests that the Ministry of Justice shall determine the method, procedure and list of areas of work. And it bothers me here - a list of areas of work. The Ministry of Justice. The law or novelty in the last paragraph, as I said, requires self-government local communities to prepare a list of works. Both professional institutions, the Employment Institute and the Centre for Social Work will assess whether this is appropriate or not. And the Centre for Social Work will, in my opinion, also be associated with the Ministry of Health, including the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and so on, if it considers it necessary for specific advice, advice, consent or anything. So, I don't believe it, and I don't think that the Justice Department can draw up a list of areas, it could prepare, but some would miss, some would miss. Let's say this particular case that you mentioned that prisoners, for example, study dogs from the shelter. I doubt that the Ministry of Justice would put this on the list of areas of work - or would. The question is whether or not you would. I don't think he's competent, but there are local communities that know what those jobs are in that area for the general benefit. That's one. And secondly, whatever we're saying right now is that it's burdening the social work center. It's a professional organ. Whether one or two employees is employed, this is not important if they are given additional tasks, they are likely to be strengthened if they fail to do so within the workforce. In the amendment, do not mention anyone else who should have done this if not a social work centre. Who was it supposed to be? Do you not suggest who: Should a new job, some new center, be set up to duplicate matters? This is missing in your amendment. If we were to specifically identify who, then one would understand. In this way, I believe that social work centres have custody of this, because they are a professional institution, they can properly organise themselves, they can additionally employ a person. On the other hand, they also have contact with both employment agencies, the convict and all ministries: the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Social Affairs, Labour and Family, or anyone else. Thus, I think that Article 10 in the proposed amendment is entirely sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u74	Dear Mr President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! It would be possible to debate whether the current 10th Article is sufficient or not, but I think it is good that the Ministry or the Ministry should, however, be able to cooperate more precisely with the relevant ministers when it is also clear whether this interaction is possible or not, then issue a sub-legislative act setting out in more detail this way, procedure and list of areas for the execution of work in general benefit. In fact, it is simply a matter of laying down responsibility as well as a burden. We know what it's like to execute criminal sanctions, we know that, at the end of the day, even the employees of his ministry, it is said that those responsible for the execution, are just before the strike or already in the sentence, we do not know what is happening at the moment, and it is the easiest thing to push someone else; the social services and the self-governing local communities that are obliged to do so in the law, to provide jobs, they are obliged to invent. Is this going to be like JLA when we were carrying coal from one cup to another 500 meters to have something to do? Let's think about things like this, but what this can do is make sense. And that's why something has to be arranged and done, but not just dictated like that, somewhere from the top, and then let people torture themselves and make things up. If you're responsible, you'll take care of this, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u75	Thank you very much. There is no further debate, so I am closing the debate on this amendment to Article 10. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 29 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 39 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. No one wants to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 52a and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Mrs. Bebler, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Well, it seems to me that this paragraph is superfluous, which is suggested here. Let those who have tabled this amendment convince me otherwise! In particular, it seems to me that the convicted person would be obliged to provide a copy of the contract upon receipt of the employment contract. Indeed, it is a contract concluded by the convicted person with the prospective employer with the employer for the work he will do after he has endured the prison sentence. And I see no reason why I would be obliged to present a copy of the employment contract to the institution now. Perhaps to be able to monitor and monitor him later in the office, where he works, why he works - I don't know - it seems to me that there is some kind of interference with the freedom of the affected, and somehow it seems to me that it is unnecessary here or that there is no need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u77	Thank you very much. As no one wants to discuss any more, I am concluding the debate and putting into discussion Article 55 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS sent groups. No one wants to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 55 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. No one wants to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 57 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 106 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. No one wants to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.15. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE LAW ON THE PENALTARY PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Secretary, Dr. Lovro Sturm. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The new law on criminal procedure, which we propose, introduces some important news. Let me just list the main ones. The possibility of electronic court operations, electronic submission of applications, the service of electronic court documents and the management of electronic files shall be introduced. Furthermore, audio, video recording of the main proceedings, transcription of such recordings is possible only in certain cases and the summary form of the minutes on the main treatment of such cases. The possibility of hearing the accused, the witnesses and the expert using technical means to transfer the word and image is introduced. It's so-called videoconferences. All these options, the new options, will significantly shorten certain court proceedings, thus also speeding up the trial and indirectly reducing judicial backlogs. The recovery of fines imposed under this law and costs for the benefit of the budget shall be transferred to the authorities responsible for the recovery of taxes. However, the cost decisions will be served under the provisions of the law governing the administrative procedure. Again, two extremely important burdens for Slovenian courts and also essentially higher recovery efficiency. The withdrawal of the proposal from the applicant for prosecution of the proposed delict in cases of his unjustified absence from the principal hearing claim or the hearing at which he is invited as a witness is determined. However, the withdrawal of the proposal may also be possible before the initiation of criminal proceedings with the State Prosecutor. The draft law also clearly lays down the powers of police officers, the specialised section of the Public Prosecutors' Group for the prosecution of organised crime. With this minor victim, a victim of violence and a witness under the age of 17, he may also be in the process of being trusted by a person who is injured or trusted by a witness. Extended deadline for appeals against decisions from 3 to 8 days, except in the case of detention decisions. These are decisions which are very important, which are issued by the court, and many times these decisions happen on Friday, the prosecution is usually the one who has to consider whether or not they will file a complaint. We have extended these arms from 3 days to 8 days. Finally, the articles of the Criminal Procedure Act are aligned with the Constitutional Court decision concerning the requirement to protect legality and thus allow for a more complete rehabilitation after war on convicted persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Koren, President of this Committee, to present the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u80	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. At its 50th emergency meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. Representatives of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, Lipa and the LDS Member Club announced obstruction because of their disagreement with the way in which the bill was being considered, and therefore did not participate in the meeting of the committee. At the outset, the representative presented some of the essential provisions of the draft law, saying that it constitutes an upgrading of the rules already in force and does not constitute systemic changes in the field of pre-trial and criminal proceedings in terms of the impact on the rights of suspects, accused parties and other parties in criminal proceedings, and brings some important news for an effective trial. The essential changes introduced by the law are the introduction of the possibility of electronic court conduct, the sound and visual recording of the main hearings and the introduction of the possibility of hearing the accused, witnesses and expert using technical means to transfer the word and image. The recovery of money from fines carried out under this law and costs in favour of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia shall be transferred to the authorities responsible for the collection of taxes. The costs of bringing persons deprived of their liberty will not be paid in advance from the resources of the authority conducting the criminal procedure, but in this case the authority responsible for the monitoring will only submit to the Court the costs. The novelty is the introduction of a compulsory appeal for the extradition of a sentence with a prison sentence imposed in the event of escape and, in exceptional cases, the possibility of service of writings by the police. The draft law also clearly lays down the powers of police officers of the specialised section of the Public Prosecutors' Group to prosecute organised crime. The composition of the Chamber of the Supreme Court shall be changed when it decides on a request for the protection of legality against a judicial decision on detention. A range of beneficiaries are also being extended to apply for the renewal of the criminal procedure. The bill complies with the provisions of the Constitutional Court and is also in line with the proposal for a new criminal code and with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. In addition, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service highlighted the need for the adoption of criminal law in order, given that the proposal of the Criminal Code has not yet been adopted by the National Assembly and is only in the legislative process. Coordination is also needed with regard to the proposed amendments to the proposal for a criminal code. The Ministry of Law was co-ordinated with the amendments and some amendments were made. These last concerns about the adoption of the Penal Code, of course, are no longer in force. The Committee adopted all amendments to the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups. All the amendments adopted are included in the draft law which forms an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill's proposal at its 37th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 6. 2008 I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. There's no debate. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 13 of this amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. No debater. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 18 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. There's no debate. I'm closing it. I am putting to the debate Article 33 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. There are no debaters. I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 64 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Nobody wants to discuss it either. I am putting to the debate Article 87 and the amended amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS groups of Members. No one wants to discuss it, so I am concluding the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 90 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. There are no debaters, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.15. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF AN ASSISTANCE TRAFFIC LAW under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Minister, Dr. Lovro Sturm, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Members and Members! The reason for the adoption of the new law on legal tariffs is in particular in establishing such a system of awarding legal services that will encourage lawyers to resolve the dispute as quickly as possible. The current system of legal tariffs allows lawyers to charge each service separately, resulting in, inter alia, unnecessary accumulation of applications and postponement of hearings and, consequently, delaying proceedings. For customers, this way of determining legal awards is more expensive and the procedure is longer. To this end, the proposal introduces the payment of a single award for the execution of a specific set of equivalent services in the same case and removes the prizes for the execution of each individual task. The number of individual writings or applications shall not affect the level of the prize. The same applies to the number of individual orders. The main four prizes are the Business Award, the Prize for the Procedure and the Award for the Claim, if there is an out-of-court settlement or a court settlement, and there is a lawyer's award for the agreement. On the basis of this arrangement, the parties will already know at the beginning of the procedure exactly how much they will have to pay the lawyer for his services, since the prizes will no longer depend on an unforeseeable number of applications and orders. For a successful settlement, the law provides for a special award for an agreement, the amount of which shall be reduced at the time of the initiation of the proceedings. Such arrangements shall encourage lawyers to solve cases out of court and, in the event that the proceedings have already been instituted, to conclude the proceedings as soon as possible. The law allows the client and the lawyer to agree on the amount of the prize and thereby exclude the award by law. Such an arrangement must comply with the specific requirements relating to personality and shall not be taken into account in the recovery of the costs of the procedure. A specific part of the law is the tariff, which is produced in the form of tables for the sake of easier transparency. The tariff shall specify the individual awards which the lawyer may receive for the provision of services in certain matters. Much more of the prizes than in the current legal tariff are determined according to the value of the legal service subject and therefore a new method of determining this value has to be established in individual procedures. The fixed amounts of prizes and prizes set out in the range of two fixed amounts shall only occur in cases where the value of the subject matter would be very difficult to identify or in foreign matters. The amount of legal awards proposed by law alone is on average 66 similar awards in Germany - 66%. The proposal for a law abolishes the setting of awards with points as set out in the applicable legal tariff and provides, instead, transparently for prizes in euro. The bill allows a lawyer to earn more from the administration of successful hearings than under the current rules in force. Lawyers are encouraged to take a number of cases in the same time period, as if these cases had been resolved in a court of law as soon as possible. This method of determining legal awards has already proved to be successful elsewhere, as this relieves the courts, while lawyers are well rewarded for their efforts. The combination of the system of legal awards and the system of judicial fees introduced by the new law on judicial fees, as well as the financial incentive for the party to conclude the dispute as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Drag Koren, President of this Committee, for the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Once again, everyone in the hall has a nice greeting! The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee discussed this proposal at the first 50th emergency meeting of the Committee. Representatives of SDS, Res, Lipa and LDS members of Parliament announced obstruction because of their disagreement with the way in which the proposal was addressed, and thus did not participate in the meeting of the committee at this point. At the outset, the representative of the applicant said that the reason for the adoption of the new law was mainly to establish such a system of awarding legal services, which would encourage lawyers and parties to resolve disputes as quickly as possible. The current regulation of the legal tariff allows lawyers to charge each service separately, resulting in unnecessary accumulation of applications and transfer of main proceedings and, consequently, delaying proceedings. The draft law, which has been drawn up following the example of the German law on lawyers' awards in 2004, introduces the payment of one prize for the execution of a certain set of equivalent cases. The number of individual writings or applications and the number of individual orders does not therefore affect the level of the prize. The exception is the award for a criminal and criminal case claim. The main three awards are the Business Award, the Process Award and the Award for Claim. The bill introduces a special award for an agreement that encourages lawyers to conclude the dispute as soon as possible. The bill allows the party and the lawyer to agree on the amount of the prize and thereby exclude the award by law. A specific part of the bill is the tariff. This is a list of prizes that is made in the form of tables to facilitate transparency. The list of prizes shall specify the individual awards which a lawyer may receive for the provision of services in certain cases. The prizes shall be determined in three different ways: with a coefficient of two values and an unacceptable value. So it's a fixed reward. The bill limits the level of prizes indirectly by determining the amount of the value of the legal service subject, amounting to EUR 30 million. The level of legal awards proposed by the law alone is on average 66% of the same awards in Germany. The bill also allows a lawyer to abolish successful settlement [[?]] He deserves more than under the current regime. In addition, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the interlinkages between the bill and the amendment of the Law on Lawyerry, which provided a legal basis for this bill. She further said that their extensive written comments had been taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In addition, it pointed only to the amendment to the new Article 14th, which was initiated by the drafter of the bill. The representative of the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia said that there were no conditions for the adoption of a bill following a rapid procedure. Furthermore, the law in force on the legal basis of this proposal does not give legal basis nor does it comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and with the legal order of the European Union. The members of the committee did not discuss the bill but adopted amendments to the SDS, SLS, NSI and DeSUS coalition groups. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared. However, the amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 37th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.15. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Period of the day - this is a second defensively proposed law on public storage within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members. The proposal for a Public Funds Act sets out the minimum criteria to be met by a legal person in order to act as a public fund and to specify more precisely the types and extent of incentives that can be granted by public funds, thereby introducing greater transparency in the business of public sector legal persons in Slovenia. The aim of the law is to enable public funds to raise funds from private and European sources and thus to relieve public finances. In addition, the aim of the law is also to correct the arrangements which have proved to be reckless and impractical since the adoption of the current law and to harmonise the Law on Public Funds with certain other laws adopted. The law has also incorporated some solutions for cases that have proved problematic or even unnecessary in the last 8 years. For non-essential and expensive persons, continuous registrations of the increase in the earmarked assets of the public fund in the Court Register have been shown, as the increases compared to the value of the registered capital were irrelevant. The law introduces the term "capital" as a passive item of the balance sheet of the public fund or the obligation of the public fund to the founder of the trust fund. While we know that the public fund is not a capital company, we have summed up the solution by the regulation for public economic institutions, which are also not capital companies. In principle, the public fund acquires resources to work from the surplus of revenue on public fund expenditure. If surpluses are not or are not sufficient, the founder shall provide appropriations for the work from his budget. In order for the public fund to have sufficient surplus to finance its operation, the minimum value of the intended assets to be provided to the public fund shall also be raised. The law also introduces the possibility of obtaining private funds for the exercise of public interest. The public fund may receive funds from other sources and not only from the founders. Countering such a possibility of implementing partner projects would prevent more than 100 million European funds from being used. Therefore, the public fund is a legal person of public law who non-profits the policy of its founder in a particular area. He owns the property he manages and disposes of. The public fund may be established by a State, province or municipality. The founder is a government, a provincial council, or a municipal council. In order to establish a public fund, the state and the province must provide at least EUR 30 million for the purpose of the property, and the municipality must provide at least EUR 10 million for the purpose of the property, which the public fund in the liabilities of its balance sheet will prove to be capital - said to be an obligation to the founder. The bodies of the public fund shall be the Supervisory Board and the Director. The founder shall define the mission of the public fund in his business policy, which is a document of the public fund for the next medium term. The law summarises the basic requirements for the security of the deposit of public funds and credit risk management. The law also taxibly lists the instruments that public funds may use to carry out their mission and the basic, permissible relationships between the value of these instruments and the capital of the public fund. This is followed by the logic of credit risk management and bank reservations. Your Honor! The bill will provide a transparent way to regulate the establishment, operation and cessation of the operation of public funds. That's why I suggest you support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u87	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. You've received the committee's report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Mr Saš Pečet to present the position of the Lip Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u88	Your Honors are here! In the Lipa Group, we have never been in favour of a certain establishment of administrative bodies within our country. If they keep the Secretary of State's words so that the amendment can concentrate, for the first time, on the power of decision, and for the second time on the capacity to draw on the resources which our country has neglected, then I am talking about European funds, then we see no reason why such legislation would be opposed to. On the other hand, if persons or institutions are designated to establish or may establish a State, a province or a municipality, a public fund on the basis of a new proposal for a law, then it should be pointed out that these capacities or that these capacities could have been achieved by now. However, what I think is most important, and what we follow in the context of the Lip Group, is in the text of the objective and principles of the law, I quote, for the first time, the establishment of minimum criteria to be met by a legal person in order to act as a public fund. If we are to legislate what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia weighs and justifies the minimum criteria, then it should be borne in mind that the professionality of the application or works of the said fund should also be at the municipal, provincial or state level, it may be questionable and will not derogate or withdraw from the practice of drawing on European funds so far, meaning that the question of knowledge in those institutions is in the event that we prescribe minimum criteria as a legislator. I believe that the minimum criteria are an incentive or a nice word at some declaration level. In the Lipa Group, we believe in knowledge and believe that one of those equations, which determines the capacity of knowledge, is also a realistic criterion that someone has to meet in order to operate as a public fund. We are afraid that if the number and content of the criteria really decreases, then we will not follow or better achieve the goal, which, according to our assessment, is the most important, that is to gain new added value. We are talking about the so-called funds not only from private-sector fund-raising but, above all, the acquisition of funds from European resources. We will support the Lip Group's support for any solution that will lead to a new flow of funding from the integration of Europe. We estimate that it is totally unacceptable that Slovenia is investing 100% of its funding in the euro, the ability of us to draw on these funds, which, according to some documents, we should fall, but in reality we do not know how to exhaust these funds, it seems reasonable for us to give our vote or rather to set up associations or, in our case, a public fund that would be easier to reach these funds. But as I said before, we fear that if we demand minimum compliance with the criteria for establishing the infrastructure or public fund, how our country will then be able to draw on those funds at the municipal or national level. At the same time, allow me to point out a third positive property that corresponds to or, rather, replaces these minimum funds, namely that partner projects with the private sector are also acceptable. Several times in our country in recent years, but not only four, but even more recently, it has proved that more innovations, more abilities, and more organisations are present in projects that are partnerly designed only with administrative forms than were envisaged once. As it is said, in the context of the Lip Group, we do not see a good reason why we would object to the proposal of the law, especially in this form, so that a new horizon can be opened up for the acquisition or drawback of European funds, which so far has been said to be catastrophically bad, and I am not just talking about cohesion or social policy, I am talking about European funds in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. It's a nice greeting for everyone! The current Law on Public Funds, which was created between 1996 and 1999, as a result of the uncontrolled establishment of constantly new and new state and municipal funds in which public assets were transferred by the State and the municipalities and, unlike the centralisation of debts, they decentralised and separated the management and management of public property from the executive and supervisory authorities. The law has undoubtedly achieved its purpose, but it needs to be updated after seven years. The law in force refers to specific articles of six other laws, which were later amended, and contains some solutions that later laws have otherwise regulated. Above all, the financial functioning of public funds has been regulated. The number of public funds has also settled and the value of state funds has decreased to less than 500 billion tolars and the value of municipal funds to less than 90 billion tolars. The basic objective of the law is to set minimum criteria to be met by a legal person in order to act as a public fund and to define more precisely the types and extent of incentives that can be granted by public funds, thereby introducing greater transparency in the business of public sector legal persons in Slovenia. The aim of the law is also to enable public funds to raise funds from private and European sources and thus to relieve public finances. In addition, the aim of the law is to correct the arrangements which have proved to be unreasonable or impractical since the adoption of the applicable law and to bring the law on public funds into line with the laws adopted subsequently. For these reasons, the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support this law. It was also supported by the Committee, and I apologize for not being able to present the report in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u91	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Cwickl will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government or cabinet of the President of the Government! Social Democrats will not object to the adoption of a law on public funds, even though it is surprising at the end of this government's mandate that we have such a major intervention that we actually have a new law on public funds. The reasons for this do not convince us or, above all, does not convince us if all this is true, as the Government says, that the aim of the law is to enable the acquisition of European resources in particular, then we ask why you waited until 2008. Slovenia, in fact, was already a full member of the European Union with this government and knew which and how much resources are available. Nor do we fully understand why, in fact, we do not have a competent Minister for Finance here, the competent Secretary of State. We have someone in the cabinet of the President of the Government who's obviously performing instead of Bayuk when the matter is more substantively complicated. That is why we would like the Government to tell us in today's debate why this law is being adopted so late and how the work of the public funds will really change. Here we have a whole bunch of arguments, one of which is that it is necessary to adopt a law in the employment of ministers that is somehow not able to invoke or hold meetings of supervisory councils. If you have a minister for, for example, an environment and a space that is the President of the Supervisory Board, for example, I do not know, an environmental fund or if you have one or more ministers, for example, an economy that should cover some of its appended funds, if you have a minister of finance, it is necessary to know that these funds are an important part of their assets, their assets, with which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, ministers or the Government, in the name of the Republic of Slovenia, is also in possession of policies. And logically, it was also a meaningful commitment to directing, guiding, supervisory councils to direct public funds policy, because it is not logical for funds to implement a different policy, such as the general policy of the Government. It is also not clear that this story of the so-called, no longer financed from the budget of the public fund, because here it is assumed that the public fund will always carry out all its business positively, what could happen or would happen if, for example, the fund had simply a deficit in expenditure for certain activities. It would therefore be good for the Public Funds Act to hold a broader debate on how to continue managing the balance sheet of state assets and, in particular, the assets in the Funds. That the law came late and the law was also poorly prepared, however, proves the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on the Proposal for a Law on Public Funds, which we have dealt with on the labour market. It's a shame the President failed to present his opinion. It is important that very many amendments have been adopted by law itself, there is a very large number of open dilemmas and that, above all, there will be a number of dilemmas in our opinion in the implementation of this law. I'm closing with the next thought. In fact, the Law on Public Funds is nothing more than the Law on State Funds at different levels. We believe that the Law on Public Funds will not eliminate all dilemmas, but we believe that, in particular, with this separation of the policy of ministries from the instruments they have, it is likely to continue to create similar problems as they were in the [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] when the funds were actually becoming out-of-budget spending. [[...]] Therefore, you will first assume responsibility for the poor implementation of this law by the end of your term of office.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u94	Mr President, the representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a law on public funds mainly because it brings about an update of the current law and its alignment with the legislation adopted later on in the field of public finances. The law brings greater transparency to the business of public sector legal persons and introduces the possibility of using new financial instruments and the possibility of involving private and European resources in projects of public interest. The proposal for a law still defines the public fund as a legal person of public law who non-profits the policy of its founder in a particular field and sets out the minimum criteria to be met by a legal person in order to act as a public fund. Among them is the most important and most difficult minimum amount of capital that the fund must have at its disposal, which is set at EUR 30 million for state and provincial funds and EUR 10 million for municipal funds. The amount of the minimum necessary capital is determined on the basis of a 15-year monitoring of the operation of public funds and the finding that smaller public funds are too expensive and therefore, despite the statutory provision that they must maintain their assets, they are losing this property. In the New Slovenia Group, we also agree with the proposal for a law to specify more precisely the types and extent of incentives that public funds can give and thus introduce into Slovenia new financial incentives that have already been implemented in the EU. In addition, the law introduces the possibility of obtaining private funds for the exercise of public interest, introduces provinces as potential founders of public funds, and not least defines and lays down the conditions for the termination of the accession and transformation of public funds. In the New Slovenia Group we advocate updates in all areas of Slovenian legislation. We therefore believe that the proposal for a new law on public funds is well prepared. It takes account of developments in the new financial incentives of the public sector and increases transparency in public finances. It repeals the arrangements which have proved to be impractical or inadvertent in recent years. In our view, it is the appropriate basis for the legislative procedure and we will therefore support the proposal for a law on public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will move the position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian People's Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The current law on public funds, which was created in 1996-1999, largely achieved its purpose for which it was adopted. The financial operations of the public funds have settled and their number has also settled. Nevertheless, the law was not fully respected. The basic objective of the amendment is to set minimum criteria to be met by a legal person in order to act as a public fund and to define more precisely the types and extent of incentives that can be granted by public funds, thereby introducing greater transparency in the business of public sector legal persons into Slovenia. According to the European standard classification of institutional sectors, public funds are among the state funds. In the Republic of Slovenia, however, state funds appear in five status or legal forms: public fund, public institution, fund, equity company and limited liability company. The aim of the law is also to enable public funds to raise funds from private and European sources and thus to relieve public finances. The law also introduces the provinces as potential founders of public funds. It solves the problem of managing public funds by ministers, leaves the provision that the public fund is financed from the founder's budget, as it in principle acquires funds for work from the surplus of public fund expenditure. If the surplus is insufficient or insufficient, the founder shall provide the resources for the work from his budget. The law also introduces the possibility of obtaining private funds for the exercise of public interest in public funds, but private partners cannot buy a share in capital and thus manage the benefits or influence the business decisions of the public fund. There has been a lot of controversy about, for example, whether the public fund can set up new legal entities or can be the majority or only minority owner of such legal persons or even receive funds from other sources and not just the founder. It has turned out that opposition to the possibility of implementing partner projects in Slovenia would make it impossible to draw on several hundred million Euros of European funds. The law also summarises the basic requirements for the security and asset transfer of the public fund and credit risk management. The law shall specify the instruments which public funds and the basic permissible ratios between the value of these instruments and the capital of the public fund may use to carry out their mission. In doing so, it follows the logic of managing credit risks and making reservations in banks, but for matters which are not provided for in this law, it makes sense to apply the rules applicable to banks. Public funds can still grant subsidies, but only if they do not provide for the purpose of the public fund or capital. The main discussion at the meeting of the home labour body was the possibility of initiating procedures for the transfer of unpaved building land from the Fund of Agricultural Lands to municipalities under this law. In the SLS Group, we will therefore support the proposed amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups governing this area. We will also fully support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! The proposal for a law on public funds is an important law, or this moment a proposal. But I wouldn't repeat everything my colleagues said in front of me. In the Slovenian National Party, we are particularly interested in the following elements, which are reflected in the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law and their solution. Despite all the positive indicators, the law on public funds has not been fully respected. This is the sixth, fifth and fourth indents of Article 57, and I am talking about the Fund to Promote the Development of the Triglav National Park. This is supposed to transform into a public fund. That didn't happen. These are municipal funds of building land, which are supposed to lose legal personality, some are still registered in the Court's business register, although they are no longer in business and the transformation of municipal funds into public funds after the fourth indent, which should be transformed into a public register, but are still registered as a fund. These are the open questions that are coming to us. It is important that Article 3 sets out the purposes for setting up a public fund. They are, of course, vindictive. This is about promoting development in the implementation of social, cultural, ecological, housing, spatial, agricultural and natural protection and other policies of the founder. On everything we have already said, we have been in the Slovenian National Party and will remain very attentive to Article 54 and to the amendment of my respected colleague from the Zares Group. This is the following amendment: No later than one year after the entry into force of this Act, the land owned by the State, which has been defined in spatial acts as the building plots managed by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, shall be transferred unpaidly to the property of the municipalities. Lands are transferred to their own congregation along with all the burdens. This is an important amendment for the Slovenian National Party. Our decision on whether or not to support the Public Funds Act will also depend on the adoption of this amendment. Why am I saying this? Because, like my other mayoral colleagues, they know how to implement the property transfer policy to the aforementioned Fund of Agricultural Lands, which is actually becoming the richest, because everything that goes beyond anyone, in particular, thousands and thousands of square metres of Rudnika Trbovlje - Hrastnik is automatically transferred to the property of the Agricultural Land Fund, whose clear purpose, at least, was, I hope that it will be no more when it is no longer and will be transferred, I hope that it will be free of charge, to the congregations, which has already happened. What he's got, he's sold it back pretty good. This has got to be over. And that will be the end of the amendment to Article 54. As it is said, in the Slovenian National Party, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Public Funds if the amendment to Article 54 is also adopted. Otherwise, we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u99	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 16.6.2008. I am putting to the debate Article 50 and the amendment of the LDS, NSI, SLS and DesUS. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 54 and the amendment of the Zares Group. I am therefore opening the application for Article 54 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Mr. Sok, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Sometimes an amendment is written in such a way that, of course, we can interpret it differently and then, even when we accept a correction or a law, we find out in the end that the various government services are interpreting the matter again. I am sorry that there are no candidates for this amendment here, because if this amendment is written to solve some problems across the congregations, then it would suggest that this amendment be supported. But I will explain the case that I myself understand in this amendment. Look, if I come out of, like I said, from a familiar case, we have an area of water cover, where there are three belts of protection. The narrowest, the widest and the widest. In that narrowest zone, which is defined as an area where it is not possible to carry out certain activities and in nature represents a forest, this forest is owned by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. If this is so, a forest with a special purpose, then it would certainly be reasonable and logical for this area to be transferred to its own congregation, which manages such a water source, and which must also be concerned that nothing is done in this area that is not permitted by law. However, if the matter is broader, I do not know because the poor position of the Ministry of Finance, which rejects the amendment, simply says that the amendment extends the rights of municipalities acquired by the Public Funds Act in 2000. It seems to me that it is very - if a representative of the Government might further explain what such a solution actually means. Once again, I say from the point of view of those municipalities that have such problems and problems that such a solution would mean a solution to a situation that has been going on too long, because then there are as many as three managers in this area - a municipality that has to take care of a water source, then it is a fund that owns it, and a forest economy that then carries out a particular cut, removal, cleaning and so on in accordance with the Fund's order. It is said that the three then manage these forest surfaces in a somewhat irregular way. On the other hand, I see that the first part of the amendment is written somehow as well as the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 56, which I think makes sense. For there are buildings on certain lands, and these buildings, because they are in these places, have not been transferred to the congregations. And some congregations also have great problems. In particular, with us the problem of the school, which was built on stock land, all the land around us has been transferred as unwalled, but only the land on which the building is located has not been transferred and is still owned by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, even though the school has been 30 years old. The problem, of course, comes later if you want to do any reconstruction if you want to do any good, because you need a building permit. And if the status of the base land is not resolved, then problems arise. And we have faced such problems. And I can see that these two amendments have problems, if, of course, I am correct in interpreting them, they are sort of solving them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to point out that in our Group, we have already given the Government the initiative to simply abolish and transfer these lands to the management of municipalities, thus ensuring sustainable development and the possibility that municipalities are more economically, economically, economically, than they are doing today, the Fund is also doing so, or they are doing so, to sell or manage these properties. We believe that the Agricultural Land Fund is a bad job. And this amendment tells us that these forests are transferred to their own congregations within a period of time. The amendment makes sense to regulate only part of this intention, which we have also expressed in the parliamentary initiative, and I must say that the Government has responded positively to our parliamentary initiative at that time and has also committed itself to even a chapter on solving this problem under the new provincial legislation. And with the new landscapes it is also supposed to be 100 percent realized. This is also what the Minister for Agriculture said in Primorska on his last visit to the Government in Lipica. But look, if we're going to wait a long time, we've also requested Mr Sergei Daoli's release from this position. Why? Because the Agricultural Land Fund allows for the establishment of cooperatives, whose owners are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but in the background there is a suspicious foreign capital. Also, the legal persons buying here are registered legal persons, foreigners buying agricultural land are usually recapitalised in such a way as to take these properties into recapitalisation procedures, pay them later and foreigners arrive at cheap land, agricultural land. This is happening all over Slovenia. We have also cited some examples in Primorska, and I believe it is a disgrace for Slovenia to sell out Slovenian land, which we know is worth between €5 and €5. In short, it can be accessible to strangers to grab her. This amendment makes sense, as my colleague, Mr Bogdan Barovic, has already stated, and I would be in favour of accepting it. Given that the landscapes in this context are likely not to be confirmed in the referendum, because there is a great deal of uncertainty, as well as insufficient funding to ensure coherent regional development. For Primorsk, let's just say EUR 115 million, given that an individual, a modern-day rich man in our country, has almost five times more, not to mention those super rich people who have grown up to be mushrooms in the rain, but also those who have a billion each. I don't know how this can be satisfied in this context. I believe that the Fund will continue to operate if we reject this amendment and continue to do harm. As a result of this view, it is right to support this amendment and to at least partially provide the municipalities with consistent regional development and a sustainable source of funding. In the Slovenian National Party, we argue that if municipalities had the opportunity to manage agricultural land, this would be slightly different from what is currently visible and that municipalities would also have their own source of financing, which would be sustainable, and they would also be better able to manage these land. The amendment makes sense to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u103	Thank you. I can see the hands. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I think it is right and beneficial that the 54th Article of this Law is discussed. Let me remind you of all those who were at the meeting of the parent working body where this article and the amendment were discussed, the fourth paragraph of this Article, where the representatives of the Government did not, however, support this amendment. It was explained that, following a given interpretation, the text of the law regulates that issue in Article 54, paragraph 4, which states: The Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests established by the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests in 1993 continues its work as a public institution until the law is enforced. For people who are not strictly familiar with this law and this issue, this doctrine is very unclear: until this law is enforced. Then what? Will the Law on the Elimination of the Fund of Agricultural Lands be adopted as a special law or will it not? Is it possible to think about this marriage, what it will be like, and what it will be like? Perhaps we are unjustifiably talking about the Agricultural Lands Fund because sometimes, contrary to our will, individual ministries or the country burden them with additional transfers of property to their burden. I have to say, unfortunately, that a large part of those areas that are owned by the Fund, at least in the vicinity of my place, are unfortunately unsettled. Now to demand that, for example, I give the case, the congregation now regulates, cleans up, and the owner is someone else, it's a little funny. If the congregation were to own these lands, it is its duty to care for these lands, to elevate them to whatever extent possible, and to care for them. I am also giving you an example of a very, very limited space for individual construction in the narrow valley in which Trbovlje is located. We got him. At a time when we had a space that allowed individual construction for the world of housing houses, suddenly half of it was owned by the Fund of Agricultural Lands. What happened? Instead of the anticipated ten individual buildings, we could make or tender only four. But the area was exactly the same, only someone artificially drew a line without any explanation as to why. But the other part is infested, neglected, and useless, and there would be 5 families or maybe 7 if they moved with their parents, they could have their homes built today. Such irregularities, because of, perhaps again, I say, even the abundance of work in the Fund, of course there are great negligences, on the one hand certain values can be sold to someone else, and on the other hand one that invests in the forests that invests in these lands is sometimes impossible, perhaps because such a small thing is overlooked. Therefore, once again, we consider the amendment proposal to amend Article 54, paragraph 4, to be very useful and substantively important. And to think about it, colleagues and colleagues, everyone knows more or less about this issue, I would suggest that we also accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is one of the few amendments where there can be substantive discussion of what is the problem with this law. This is because the transitional provisions in Article 54, however, try or the Government tries to regulate certain things that are not regulated by the basic content of this law. This is a substantive amendment to the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. Its assets according to data or long-term assets in management 31. 12. 2006 represents a total of EUR 252 million if I have looked at the table correctly. In addition to management funds, I apologize, if this is the right number, it is a billion euros or 253 billion dollars. This is the largest share of the assets that these funds have. More than half of the assets of these funds are the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. Here, in particular, the issue of evaluation of this, it is clear here that, once again, property is not included here by mass valuation methods, so the amendment, which is trying to make this so-called management of public fund assets substantively different, makes sense. I think the colleagues have made clear in their explanation that this has also been pointed out by the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia made it clear at several meetings that we had on the Commission for the supervision of public finances that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is located here in Ljubljana, simply with more than half the assets of all public funds in Slovenia. Either they do not have the relevant records or there are no appropriate delimitations as clearly stated in the explanatory memorandum. Therefore, the fundamental question in this Public Funds Act is whether the Public Funds Act will really achieve the objective that you have stated to make a more rational decision. I would assume, especially because you say that the proposal for a new law introduces the provinces as an option [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] public funds to consider, however, whether it is possible to manage all assets in one place in Ljubljana, including these agricultural land. [[...]] We also know how these agricultural lands are changing in one way or another, who has an impact on this, how, then, this is a special story related to denationalisation, even though the Agricultural Land Fund and the Slovenian Compensation Society are almost neighbours in Ljubljana, we have many disputes between them. That is why I would like to ask the applicants, the Government, but very carefully to explain this current fourth paragraph of the directive, which states that it continues its work as a public institution until the law is enforced. This is about the question, not what will happen to the Fund of Agricultural Lands as you would like, a legal person, but what will happen to the balance sheet of the Fund, which is worth these numbers, here you say, a billion euros. We are here at the National Assembly, and we must ask ourselves whether it is in the spirit of decentralisation, and especially in the spirit of this more efficient use of European funds, this is indeed the most rational decision. You know that no project can happen if you can't put it in space. However, place it in a room in the congregation, well, according to a new one, if we also have the provinces through some provincial legislation, you must obtain municipal, private and European funds. And if you can't count on an investment in the form of such land or other land here, then it can also be a former agricultural land that flows into a walled land, then there will be no such plots. I will not go into stories that are then related to so-called private initiatives, where you, as it were, have a simple story where the clumsy employees at some fund in Ljubljana do not understand that changing the spatial plan and bringing a new road into some, I don't know, right instead of left turn, suddenly the value of the land is completely different. Therefore, it would be logical for these lands to go, for the unwalled buildings to go to congregational ownership, and for the congregations that change these spatial plans to protect this property so much more. That is why I would like in this debate, this is practically the only substantive amendment, that, however, the representatives of the Government will explain to us the argument for the fourth paragraph of Article 54 and the opinion of the Government on the amendment, because of course I think it will be best to see how serious the Government really means by decentralisation. Here I will quote Mr Vlad from Youth, where he says that the way to prepare decentralisation will only increase centralisation. And even though we have been given a law or a law on public funds, more than half of the assets in practice to increase the development potential of the municipalities, including by drawing private funds, especially European funds, as far as this segment is concerned, will not change unless this amendment is accepted. That is why, of course, I support this amendment and, above all, I want the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In some ways, I understand the mayors who are striving to obtain some capital that is certainly necessary for the operation and life of the congregation. We're probably the only ones in this. However, this capital that we would like to have in the congregations, as we have all already learned and heard, is also in the game for action or for the emerging administration of the regions. And I think that at the stage in which we are, we should not actually break this project with this amendment to Article 54, and we should stick to what we have already outlined. In fact, this regionalisation project is a major project and this will be an unwalled building site for the regions, and I think it is also a very important factor and a very important part that the regions will have, live and create. However, I would also like to draw attention to the next amendment to Article 56, which states that what is in the implementation phase, which means that the municipalities and the Fund have agreed on the transposition and these transfers have not yet been implemented and are transposed or completed in the Fund with the amendment to Article 56, despite the amended legislation. And I think that this is somehow meaningful and fair, and I stress once again, given that we are at a regionalisation stage and that the regions are meant to be carriers of these building plots, and this should also be some incentive and some capital that the regions will have at their disposal. Therefore, we do not support the amendment to Article 54, but we will support the amendment to Article 56, which allows for the completion of the unfinished phase in which certain municipalities are located. And I think it is right for the matter to be completed in accordance with the agreement between the congregation and the Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u110	Thank you, Madam President. If the government is serious about doing what it wrote down in response to my mission, transfer these lands to the congregations and give the congregations the opportunity to manage these lands, then it can do so today. He does not have to wait or wait for the referendum but to wait for some new provinces, as has been said. And national shame will no longer happen, the land will no longer be sold to foreigners. Above all, in Primorska, it is heavily purchased by Italians, and the real agricultural land fund will no longer do the damage it does from day to day and cause new injustices. I think that we can fully comply with this amendment, which is well-intentioned, and we will start transposition procedures tomorrow. And if there was any legal order in this country, we should also put in place a thorough control over the Agricultural Land Fund and replace the Director long ago. The government can't talk about not being aware of these problems, that she didn't know what was going on here. We have informed them thoroughly, that is, the Ministry and the Government and other authorities, and have asked them for a number of answers. Most of them were flatfooted. Now came one thorough and also the purpose of the government is to abolish this Fund. Why doesn't he do it now? Why does this allow it to be transferred for a period of time if we know that the Fund is doing this practice which is negative, new legal persons are being established from day to day. I think Slovenia is losing a lot here. And this injustice and this damage will not be so easy to repair.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Bajc, I'm sorry if I haven't seen your hand, but Mr. Friend raised it when Squeakle spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. President, for coming in. I called right after the two of them applied only for the debate and I was reported in front of all those who were registered after the last two years. But no matter what, it's still my turn. One of his colleagues couldn't because he had his hand up. I'd like to do a little historical tour. The 1993 Law on the Establishment of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests was established, I hope we are aware of why and that it has done quite well its task. However, I would not assess the management, not the former, nor the current Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. The second thing I would like to say is that the Fund does not only work in Ljubljana, but it also has outposts on the ground, which, on behalf of the Fund, try best to manage the assets that are made available to them. Third. I think that a lot of mayors, even here in the National Assembly, did not do what they did to settle the assets by means of the exhibitions of the Treasury to which the municipalities were to rule, or with which the Fund was to be used, because the land was not executed. We probably know the legislation that says that everything that has been transferred free of charge to legal persons, cooperatives, congregations, and I don't know what all of 1993 is from the Fund, which has been remunerated, is either from other legal entities or from the congregation now available and can now be congregational. The next thing I would like to say, with the legislation so far, is that for the land which was defined as wallless building plots, either in the 1986-1990 medium-term and spatial plans 1990-2000, it is possible to transfer this and where both the leaders of the municipality and the Fund took over, it was possible to arrange this and it is possible to regulate it under the applicable legislation. Now, why don't I support this amendment - because I think it is inconsistent; because in the first part it speaks precisely, it mentions that it should be settled within one year and talks about plans, medium-term and long-term plans, and then it says that, in the possession of municipalities, the forests owned by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which are in accordance with the rules of the Republic of Slovenia, are also transferred within the first sentence of this paragraph. Anytime! And what is happening, what my friend friend is saying, is in Crassus; but the state does not accept spatial plans that define certain agricultural areas as wallless building lands and then the Italians or any of the European Union's citizens buy and create some new settlements in Crassus, which reflect the true image of Crassus. So, the responsibility is there. And by writing that also for forests with special purposes - which would be defined in spatial acts as forests with special purposes - they would be transferred to the municipality. I think that the amendment to Article 56 is acceptable, because what I said before is that we leave the rest of the country's legislation and make sure that we get the landscapes and that these lands, which are now either owned or managed by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, will be transferred as the original property of the future landscapes and thus allow some mass, some property they will know, I hope, to manage better than possible at this point in time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Shircel.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Dear Members, honourable Members! The Government does not support this amendment to Article 54. I'd like to mention the following reasons here. First, what needs to be said in the introduction is that the Government wants to address this issue and that it has already explained in what way and how. Certainly in relation to the provincial legislation and as already mentioned, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and also the assets of this Fund should be governed by this provincial legislation and should also come to the provinces. The other thing that we believe is that such a transfer of ownership must be done on a planned basis and on the basis of accurate data and very difficult, in the case of such a large asset, solely with one article which is also unclear to a certain extent. Thirdly, what we think is that the Government considers that this law is not the law that regulates transfers of individual land, but that this law actually regulates the establishment, operation and also the termination and operation of public funds, while individual transactions or transfers of ownership should be arranged elsewhere and in a different way. This is said, in essence, by new legislation or provincial legislation, the whole matter should be regulated in a transparent manner and, of course, in such a way as to be known precisely on the basis of an analysis of the situation, what will actually be tolerated and on the basis of which laws. Here let me answer some more questions or at least one question why this law is today. Today, of course, this law is due to the need to identify all those uncertainties and, of course, all those weaknesses that have led to the operation of the funds to this day. Which, of course, means that it was necessary to provide solutions that are appropriate at the present time and that, of course, prevent the shortcomings of the current law from actually repeating itself. This is one of the reasons why today this marriage is before you and not just a little earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u115	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah, I can still see the hands. I'm opening a report so there won't be any misunderstandings. Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I regret that the Government opposes the amendment, because of course we are in another reading. If the government had taken the matter of centralisation seriously, then this amendment would have been adopted, and then, in the third reading, in view of the further steps, it would have been reasonable to coordinate here whether it was transferred to the municipalities or transferred to the so-called promised provincial funds of agricultural land. But this just confirms that the intention is not serious, in fact, you, although you want to settle matters appropriate for more than half of the assets, leave the matter untouchable by law on public funds, according to the objectives. And you say that if the provincial legislation is adopted, then we can decentralize it more. What if the provincial legislation is not adopted? How, then, will you assert that you want to be more rational with this law? That's the story here. Still, even when this provincial legislation is adopted, and if it is adopted within it, it will continue to have an important, I hope, impact on these provincial funds of the agricultural land of the municipality, because the municipalities of the provinces are the ones that make up the provinces. The province is not a divided country, but a united congregation! Therefore, it would, of course, be the right thing to do with public funds and, if you want, to give it to the congregation when it comes to public funds for agricultural land. There are defined spatial acts, there are people living, there are known whether this parcel or that parcel has such or different value according to that! So if - I waited for this response to the government - we would seriously think with decentralisation, then the amendment would be accepted. And then, of course, if provincial legislation were to go through, the third reading would write the provinces here, but if the provincial legislation did not go through, the matter would go to the congregations. What will we now wait for the next ten years to have the landscapes so that we can have a more rational use of the agricultural land fund? The philosophy is that we want to do more rationally with the fund - what we have, and this is not being done rationally. This was proved by the Court of Auditors. It's a dilemma here. That is why I think the amendment in the second reading makes sense, and in the third reading, given what will happen in the meantime, we are moving on. Whether this will now, I don't know, be six funds or there will be eight provinces or there will be thirteen provinces, just below; but, no doubt, this is the original sense to give to the municipalities, because, given their direct interest in the people living there, probably a better master than some centralist Fund of Agricultural Lands, which the Court of Auditors has found has no records. That is why this amendment has been proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u118	Thank you very much, again. Regardless of the referendum, the decision is actually in the hands of the National Assembly; the 60 Members and here no one can actually predict when this will will actually take place. It is not said that it will - after the referendum. That way we can really wait a long time for this. But, I don't know, personally, I also think that if we're actually transferring agricultural land to the provinces, for God's sake, it's not going to be lower to the congregations, because then the agricultural land, which is already small, will still be under more pressure from the building. That's a real time we're having. And if we come from some local practice, then all the mayors will make every effort to meet the development as long as possible to maintain their functions. These are facts, and we can either keep our eyes closed or we can't. But we need agricultural land, and we know why we need it and experience what the price of food means in a global sense. But I don't want to talk about it. But I'll tell you again if they're under these woods with a special purpose - I don't know what it means then. Is this a big deal or is this something shorter? And I'm coming out again from an example that I myself mentioned: if this special forest is meant to be the first protection area on a water protection cover, then it would make sense to transfer these forests into the ownership of the one that owns the water source. We have terrible problems making a few springs in the forest, which is owned by the agricultural land fund, but is in the first water protection area. And I don't see any reason why those couple of hectares going into that water belt wouldn't become their own congregation. I don't see why. Because this would reduce the problems we have right now. Because this fund is one extremely slow, rigid structure. The way it works, it's impossible! You can't explain a few simple things to them, or they don't have enough authority, enough authority, or they're not the right people. I'm sorry to have to say this. To walk around them and ask them almost on their knees, let us, I don't know, arrange a little. I told you before, there's a school in a lot for 30 years, and then you find out that this lot is owned by DSU or something. He doesn't even own the fund, and you can't sort things out in some normal way! These are things that have some connection from our past, that are the result of a system that we had and that was then changing. So if the government has already said they're going to make an amendment like this because it's true - it's unpredictable! We don't know what can hide in here "with special intentions" when they've been declared special purposes, or it's really going, what I know, in what way. However, if this means a closer solution to certain problems, then I would suggest, of course, that the 56th article will remain open, that perhaps by the third reading it will be considered and that any such problems in that country that are resolved. I'm just saying right now that we're not supposed to be talking about local problems, but you're showing the local problem the easiest way. It is three, four hectares of the State Treasury Forest, which is owned by the Fund, and undoubtedly serves water cover and would be needed by the owner of the water system to build springs. What are the springs, we all know: three, four, five meters of deep well into the earth and the pumping of water from that part. It's hard to come by because you don't have it; and the Fund, once again, I say it works the way it works. I don't want to criticize them, but a lot of times at the Fund we should just listen a little bit and dig into the matter and try to solve something. Not the law, the law, the law, the law does not allow. But if the law does not allow, then it is we who can change the law properly at some point and create this opportunity to solve problems, not to accumulate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u119	Thank you. I'm reopening the application. I can see the hands. Mr. Bajc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to mention once again why the Fund was set up: that farmers with agricultural land and forests, to provide these forests or agricultural land for recovery in denationalisation processes, and I do not think that the denationalisation procedures are yet to be completed at this time. Secondly, to provide replacement land for those denationalising beneficiaries who have decided and are entitled to be provided, instead of assets which cannot be returned in their nature, to demand the refund of replacement land and here the Fund provides this. The following is what I would like to say and repeat once again, this amendment to Article 54 does not or does not provide for the return of agricultural land to be transferred to local communities, but speaks only of forests with special purposes, not once again when they have been declared by a municipal act. I hope that colleagues from the Zares Group, when they wrote this, did not think that these forests around Dobrna, Podčetrka or anywhere, because forests around these thermal spas were defined as special-purpose forests, and even less those that discussed and said that this amendment also transferred agricultural land to future municipalities did not mean that some mayors or their family members would buy land for 0.5 euros, and then by spatial act they defined these land as unbuilt building land and then sell it on the market for 80, 100 or more euros. That is why this amendment is not governed by anything at all and, as Comrade Sok said, let us leave it to the provincial legislation, whether we accept it or not. But I support - once again and I will not answer - the amendment to Article 56, which says that all those lands that are in spatial acts on day 10. 3. In 1993, it was defined as unpaved building plots, transferred to local communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u121	Thank you. Anyone else? I'm opening the application. Please register all those who wish to talk about this Article and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u122	Thank you. Well, I just want to remind you that we Social Democrats have introduced a law that we wanted to transfer building land to our own communities. The fact is that the State actually grants these land to the Consulting and Management Society, to which all building land has been transferred. This consultancy and management company is currently building in Ljubljana government palaces and general police administration and selling building land all over Slovenia, both in Styria, Prekmurje, Gorenjska, Dolenjska, Kočevska. In short, I think that such a principle is not a suitable solution, and this amendment speaks of becoming the building land of the municipality where these lands are also located. However, I think it should be written in this amendment that the costs of the necessary parcels are borne not only by the congregation but at least by sharing: the congregation - the Fund, because both are interested, both the congregation and the Fund, so that the assets of the two institutions are settled as soon as possible. The lotion is an emergency, an intervention with which you can do it in practice. If we look at the forests that have been declared for specific purposes, the management of such forests is not so extensive or at least in some minimum extent, so that there is some economic interest in the exploitation of these forests in another way, if I say so. This would be no big deal if such forests came to the congregations. Thus, the amendment is acceptable and saves an important area of building land, which, as I said today, are actually in a consulting and management society, are no longer on the Fund for Agricultural Lands, as it must transfer them to a consulting and management society. But I think it's controversial because he's actually transferring them on the basis of the government's decision. In my opinion, the law should be amended to allow these lands to be transferred from the management of the Agricultural Land Fund to the Consulting and Management Society. This would also improve this amendment on this side, in my view, the illegal situation with regard to the availability of these land and I think it would be appropriate to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u123	Thank you. Since there is no wish, I am closing the debate and moving on to Article 56 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to this Article. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 56 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u124	Thank you. In fact, I am surprised that the Government has even proposed the text of the Law on Public Funds, by which it has taken away the right of municipalities to transfer land from the agricultural fund to the municipalities. The transfer is carried out on the basis of concluded contracts and it is not always easy with the Agricultural Land Fund to form and conclude a contract, so that there are still very many non-walled buildings which, under Article 57 of the current Law on Public Funds, have become the property of the municipalities, and the State or Government takes these land by means of this text and somehow resupports them, if I may say so. That is how this amendment solves this grave flaw in this law and I support it. However, I think it would also make sense in the third reading to write that the deadline for the adoption of spatial acts is to define what is municipal land and what is State-related to, say, the publication of this law. Indeed, from 20.3.2000 expired the period by which the municipalities could adopt spatial acts justifying the transfer of land from the country to the municipalities. Well, if it were written in this law that this transfer was in force until the time of the entry into force of this law, many municipalities would do an important service, so that truly unwalled building lands, which they also furnish municipally, could be owned and not bought at a high price by the Fund of Agricultural Lands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u125	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda or at the latest at 20.15. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Period of the day - Second defense of the audit bill. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give my word to the government's representative, Mr. Mag. Andrea Shirtzl, Secretary of State. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The proposal for a law on auditing shall be transposed by Directive 2006/43 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2006 on mandatory audits for annual and consolidated accounts. The new revision directive and consequently the amendment of Slovenian legislation in this area responds to a number of scandals in recent years, such as those concerning Enron, Parmalat and so on. These scandals have weakened consumer and investor confidence in capital markets. The draft law therefore extends the definition of auditing to include the revision of financial statements, including other transactions, the provision of guarantees and related services carried out under the rules of the International Union of Financial Experts. In order to ensure that the audit is completely independent, impartial and in accordance with the audit rules, the law strengthens the provisions prohibiting the execution of the audit by an individual legal person. The audit ban shall also apply where the audit firm provides tax advice, accounting services or related services to such legal person which may affect the items of the accounts. However, it is essential in the Directive that Member States have to introduce control over auditors and audit firms, which will be independent from the audit profession, and an independent source of funding for the functioning of the public oversight body must also be provided. To this end, we hereby suspend the Agency for Public Auditing. The Agency shall have the ultimate responsibility for the proper functioning of the auditors and audit companies and of the Slovenian Institute of Labour, which shall have public powers. As is the case with the directive already mentioned, the Agency has the competence to carry out an audit of the auditor or the audit company itself. The Agency shall have two bodies, the Director and the Expert Council. In the performance of her duties and responsibilities, she shall be independent and independent. In order to operate and decide the Agency, the competences are given to the expert board composed of representatives of the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency, the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, the University, the Slovenian Institute for Audit, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. Such composition of the Council and the conditions for the appointment of members of that body and of the Director shall be a guarantee that the Agency shall act independently and shall represent a public supervisory authority. Since the Company Act provides for specific and extraordinary audits, the powers of public oversight are extended to these forms of auditing, where our law is even more stringent than the directive, but such extended public control powers in the Slovenian space are still necessary. In view of the complexity of the supervision of auditors and audit firms in these audits, the Agency and the Slovenian Institute of Audit will cooperate and monitor together in practice. With this solution, we have two supervisors in Slovenia: the Slovenian Institute for Auditing, which provides control over the quality of the work of auditors and audit firms, and the Agency, which exercises public control over both it and the auditors and audit companies. Such arrangements shall also be followed by the procedures for deciding on the checks. The Agency for Public Oversight shall always have the ultimate responsibility and, in the case of the implementation of the control measures, it shall decide on its own. However, the Slovenian Institute must, at its request, provide the Agency with access to all documents or all documents and provide it with the appropriate explanations it needs. The new auditing law will thus help to improve the quality of the work of auditors, as it will greatly strengthen control over them, and audit firms will also have to prepare broader and more detailed reports for monitoring purposes. In the law, the proposed public oversight organisation of Slovenia harmonises the legal order with the European, while also taking into account the size of the audit market in Slovenia. Your Honor, the government is proposing to the National Assembly that it adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Shirtzl. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Bojan Starman to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 40th meeting, on 4. 6. The draft revision law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration was also considered by the parent labour body. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments on a significant number of articles. Most of the comments are taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. Parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of 3 have tabled amendments to the proposed law within the time limit of business. 6. 2008, k, I will not list the articles to which the amendments were made. The Committee also received comments and amendments from the Association of Judicial Experts and Court Valuators of Slovenia on the construction of the profession of 2 July 2016. 6th and Amendment Proposals of the Association of Judicial Experts and Appreciators of the Agricultural Section of Slovenia of 2. 6. Articles 87 and 90. As has already been said, the law submitted transposes Directive 2006/43 into the Slovenian legal order, which provides for additional supervision of auditors and audit services. This Directive has been adopted mainly because of cases such as Enron and Parmalat, which have caused certain shocks in the financial market. In addition, we received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. In the debate, we focused on the proposals for amendments to Articles 87 and 90, and in particular on Article 25, where the question was raised in particular on the appropriateness of the solution to decide on the appointment of the members and members of the Agency's expert council, the Minister responsible for finance. The opinion was expressed that it was not a good solution from a professional point of view, as it allowed for political selection. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee defined and accepted the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups: the Slovenian Democratic Parties, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of the Retired. He then voted on all the articles together. In view of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared and the amended proposal is proposed to the National Assembly for its adoption. Since the proposed law was not included in the deadline for the National Assembly for June, the Committee finally adopted a decision - the proposal was concluded with the proposal by the College of the President of the National Assembly to secondly consider the draft law as an exact agenda for the June meeting, as we have already done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u129	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! The applicable auditing law, which was adopted in 2001, should be amended and supplemented in order to harmonise the regulation of the field of auditing of companies with the single framework laid down in full by Directive 2006/43 of the European Council on statutory audits adopted in 2006. The Directive must be transposed into our legal order by 29 June of this year. The aim of the Directive is to achieve a high level of harmonisation of the requirements for the implementation of the mandatory audit in the EU Member States or in the European Economic Area. The Directive provides for additional supervision of auditors and audit services, and it is mainly due to some rebuttal cases that have caused shocks in European and global financial markets. This will give us two new supervisory institutions, the current Institute for Auditing, which is supposed to provide quality control over the work of auditors and audit services, and the Agency for Public Oversight of Auditing, which will supervise both the Institute and the auditors and audit companies. The Agency’s bodies are the Director and the Expert Council, which consists of eight other members in addition to the Director, which are proposed by the Securities Market Agency, the Bank of Slovenia, the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Slovenian Institute for Audit, the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, the University, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. The Agency is therefore an expert and independent body which, through the establishment of audit rules, will issue audit licences and other tasks to monitor the quality of the work in the field of auditing. Comparing data on the number of authorised auditors in audit companies and the number of audit reports signed by these auditors shows that the quality of the work of Slovenian auditors cannot be sufficiently good. For 2006, a total of 2,023 annual reports and 570 consolidated annual reports were revised according to Apes, involving between 93 and a maximum of 115 authorised auditors. The number of audit reports signed by each authorised auditor is not publicly known. However, the individual auditors are also expected to sign more than 100 reports informally. Of course, Slovenia is not immune to cases that have taken place outside our borders, given the size of our market, it is not possible to expect such shocks as we have witnessed in Italy and other countries. However, these are other issues which, without proper supervision, may cause shocks in the domestic financial market and undermine confidence in the financial system. For this reason, an appropriate regulation of the audit area with the relevant control mechanisms is necessary. The law will help improve the quality of the work of auditors and strengthen the control mechanisms in the field of auditing, and we support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Milan M. Cwickl will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u132	Good afternoon, everyone. The law on auditing is, of course, the harmonisation of the law on auditing with the European Directive, which is somewhat delayed, but an appropriate response to the problems of scandal-related auditors who are not worthy of their name. The dilemma that arises in this law is only that, or with the proposals for solutions that are in this law, in particular those proposals that are more stringent than directives, we in fact guarantee greater quality and greater independence of the work of auditors. Therefore, the question arises whether there is anything wrong with the current regime, since the Slovenian Institute for Audit was, in fact, watching over the profession in this area as a single body reporting to the National Assembly. The expert in this area will now be appointed by the Minister of Finance. And here's our main lead. We cannot accept the issue that has also been discussed on the Committee, that the appointment of the members and members of the Agency's expert council, which is decided by the Minister of Finance or the Minister responsible for finance, has increased to a greater extent the independence of the audit profession. On the contrary. All 17 years of independence in Slovenia, the auditing profession has been tortured, but it has been working on the market to establish its professional positions. And also some of the explanations that have been here that the auditors don't know what they're signing - gentlemen, I don't know if you've been involved in any audit business. The auditors shall do so on the basis of the evidence produced. We therefore estimate that some solutions, particularly those that are more stringent in this law or follow some Slovenian logic of setting up institutions and agencies that are independent agencies or should be independent agencies, and in practice this is determined by the dictatorship of the law - thus we have a problem in Social Democracy. We have a problem because we believe that increasing the agency's independence is exactly what we should all be worried about. But here we have a story of the subordination of the professional council, a new agency to the minister, every time a minister of finance, or one he just appointed. The Group of Social Democrats will not oppose the adoption of the law. The law must be adopted because it is a matter of coordination with European directives. However, we would recommend that, once we have determined in due course how this will be implemented in practice, we consider whether we are able to trust independent institutes. It would probably make sense that, like everywhere in the world, the Agency's expert council is appointed on the proposal of the Institute from so-called experienced but no longer in the individual business of active auditors. The term used by the Directive is so-called inactive auditors. This is the case, if you look at it, also mainly in those countries that do not follow the Anglo-Saxon model, in countries where you have an Anglo-Saxon model, but this is one of the things that is always the so-called securities market regulator, or those that are capital-interested, that these securities markets as well as primary capital markets work. That is why we have a substantive reservation to some philosophy that an agency should be set up to be independent, but once we look at the dictates of law, we see that this agency is less independent, it is said that it will be more dependent on the Minister of Finance than the current Slovenian Institute of Audit. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Let me make that point. In all past years, during the so-called governments of previous governments, there have been a lot of reflections on this, and every time a policy has always remained in the process of reaching out to the independence of the profession. Even if changing these or those standards would make sense, it would make sense that some information would be better to show a lie, a big lie, a statistic. We will not oppose the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u134	Good-bye, everyone. First, perhaps a less important detail of the adoption or adoption of this law, which we have already highlighted at a meeting of the Committee on Finance. In this way, this number of amendments to this law has not been possible to read professionally, qualitatively, or to decide, and this is why the situation today is no different. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are aware that the European Union requires public oversight of auditing, which is intended to increase the quality of audits and restore confidence in them. From this point of view, we attach to the debate and the procedure for the adoption of the law, but, on the other hand, we believe that Slovenia, by the way that it is now established or proposed in the law, actually introduces State control by enforcing, according to our opinion, the excessive political influence that the Agency for Public Oversight of the Operation will have, thus, in relation to the Agency itself or the continuation of the Institute for Audit, by appointing key staff, this political influence can be overpowered. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, concerns about the proposed control of auditing, which stipulates that the Director and members of the Professional Council are appointed by the Government - we are therefore doubtful or consider it questionable. In our view, this proposal is too much for a political agency. This law also raises a questionable provision which allows only audit firms established in the Republic to carry out work or tasks under this law. In the opinion of many lawyers, foreign and domestic, such a provision is questionable and may constitute non-compliance with the provisions of the free movement of capital, services and people. I hope the Government is aware of this and has the answers to these questions. This duality also occurs with the introduction of the Agency into the law, as the audit control will be carried out by the Audit Institute and - new - the Public Oversight Agency. In our view, a better and rational immediate transformation of the Audit Institute into an Agency, which should be such that it does not have the predominant influence of policy with an appropriate management structure, would be much more rational. Such a creation of the Public Oversight Agency, as in this case, has nothing to do with what we experienced a while ago in relation to the law on the implementation of the Architecture and Engineering Chamber, where, in fact, the Chambers have taken away all the powers and made it a harmless tiger. Today, we have a different situation where we have control and tasks performed by both institutions with full competences and very questionable options for neutrality and quality of doing this work. That is why we believe that there was too little time and that more should be said in this regard. A similar situation that occurs today in this law, where the Union of Accountants, Financers and Auditors of Slovenia through the Institute for Auditing all powers and competences, leads to the questionable future control of auditing in this area. This is not a question of whether it is professional or not in this institution and these bodies, but more of a dilemma, whether the Institute and the Agency are a guarantee of professional competence and whether in one company a private company - which is financed on the market and is either approved or formed by the owners or those who merge - actually has a validated tariff and in some way a monopoly on the position of the Government. This gives her all public powers to adopt standards, educate staff and verify knowledge, allocate and extend permits, supervise them, condemn them and carry out sanctions for two years. All of this, therefore, was not possible in the case of an architectural or engineering chamber. For this reason, we believe that there is doubt as to whether the law is properly and appropriately prepared. However, the intention of the law to satisfy the European Union's demand for adequate review control is such that, of course, we doubt whether or not this law has been better adopted, and so we will probably vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a law on auditing as it relates to compliance with the directive which sets out the rules and functioning of the public control body as the supervisory authority over auditors and audit firms and introduces additional professional criteria for the control of the quality of work. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the bill will bring positive consequences to our legal order, which will be ensured through the additional supervision of auditors and their work. Nevertheless, auditors must now act in accordance with the laws of the highest ethical standards and in accordance with professional ethics, which includes representation of the public interest. The adoption of the proposed law will be crucial to the future functioning of audit companies. There will also be a need for transparency of action for further successful development. The Directive, which will be transposed into our legal order, will provide additional control over the proper functioning of auditors and audit firms. An important innovation introduced by the law is also the audit committee, which will take care of cooperation with external auditors in audit companies. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the adoption of this law and the establishment of a new audit agency will increase the security of the financial system, which today poses a major problem for the stability of the financial area as a whole. The Agency will, inter alia, be able to monitor the implementation and quality checks of the audits of authorised auditors and audit firms, supervise the Institute for Auditing, and may also exercise direct control over auditors and audit houses, and will also have a view of the audit documentation. It shall also have jurisdiction over sanctions in the event of infringement and the jurisdiction to decide on individual matters. Trust in public oversight of the audit profession is expected to be the first condition for high-quality accounting reporting, so in the New Slovenia Group we will support the bill's proposal, because we believe that trust and reliability in the accounts are crucial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u138	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Good-bye! Directive 2006/43 of the European Parliament and of the Council was created as a result of accounting scandals within the global framework which the audit procedures failed to detect or prevent. We all know Enron and Parmalat here. The first law on auditing was passed in Slovenia in 1993 and regulated the auditing of legal persons established in the Republic of Slovenia. Before joining the EU, the law replaced the new law, which transposed the 1984 Council Directive into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a law now before us brings the 2006 Directive to Slovenia's legal order. The new European Directive lays down the rules and functioning of the public oversight body as a supervisory authority over auditors and audit firms and introduces additional professional criteria for the control of the quality of the work of auditors and audit firms. The new proposal for a law on auditing also eliminates the shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the original law, and in particular ensures more independent control over the work of the audit. Legal auditors must operate according to the highest ethical standards. In their work they must act in accordance with professional ethics, which includes representation of public interest, integrity and impartiality, professional competence and due diligence. The representation of the public interest means that the quality of the work of the statutory auditor is thus relied on by the wider public and the public concerned. Auditors are supposed to be the most powerful tool in the fight against fraudsters who falsify financial statements, although only new rules do not prevent book fraud, as no legislation can eliminate crime and the introduction of stricter rules increases ethical behaviour in audit procedures. Ensuring the quality of the work of auditors and audit houses will be subject to new regular supervision, which must be independent of auditors and audit houses. Each Member State is to provide public oversight of auditors and audit firms. Supervisors are supposed to be led by a person with audit knowledge but not by an auditor. This person is never supposed to be associated with auditors or audit firms, nor should he be the former auditor who left the profession. Public oversight must be impartial and independent. The introduction of a public oversight system is one of the most important requirements of this Directive. The Agency for Public Oversight in Auditing will supervise the work of the Institute in the field of auditing and will also be able to exercise direct control over auditors and audit firms. In accordance with the delegated powers, it shall give its consent to the annual work plan of the Institute’s supervisors on auditors and audit firms and shall monitor their work and actions. The Public Oversight Authority will have the ultimate responsibility to act in accordance with the law of the Institute. In view of everything that has been said and given the high level of consensus reached within the professional public, we will adopt the proposed law without reservation in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Willie Rezman. He's not here. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u140	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! Is the law on auditing one of the additional anti-Tacoon tools or weapons - whatever you want? That's a question that's probably already coming to us. In addition to the revision of the annual accounts, this law also provides for exceptional audits or wider supervision of auditors and audit firms. And that's not bad. The author, the creator, the Ministry of Finance also estimates that the establishment of the Audit Supervisory Agency does not mean State control, but it does mean public control, which is also good if the Director and the members of the Expert Council are not questioned by the Government. You know, there's always doubt. On one side of the scale there are two or three elements listed and we have another side, that is, the user side or the page of those who will be monitored. This obvious rush. Clearly, there was enough time to prepare, prepare peacefully, and prepare this law well. Well, that he was suddenly in a hurry or that he was in a hurry, that's true. If we look from the statistics that from 100 – now has the law 165 or more than 165 articles – we were given a total of 100 amendments by the profession, the Law and Law Service and by various associations. Well, the profession also assesses that it is not public oversight, but that it is State control. It would be good to hear another opinion from both sides. It is also clear from the auditing law that it is intended to go beyond the European Directive. In their view, the profession is of the opinion that the European Directive is intended to require or foresee only a revision of the financial statements of public undertakings. According to the section, the law on auditing goes beyond this Directive, as they say it includes all possible audit services. The profession is also angry at the ban on auditors to provide advisory services and to be given additional administrative burden. And on the other side of the scale, we can give two readings, state control, which is detected and politicized. It's hard to stand on one side or the other and look objectively, i.e. by the letter of the law. However, given that my predecessors spoke and mentioned why this proposal for a revision law was actually made, and mentioned by Enron another person, they could peacefully mention some name of a company, company, organisation or anyone who bears a Slovenian name and has Slovenian origin. If the purpose of this law is to effectively prevent everything that has accumulated over us and that we will only talk about in a fraction on Thursday, then the proposal for a revision law is worthy of support, only with this objective. Therefore, we will not oppose the proposal for a revision law in the Slovenian National Party as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u141	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, we will decide on the draft law today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, at 2.25 p.m. With this, I interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we will resume in half an hour, which is at 2.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u142	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Servants. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting on the law. There are 49 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 3. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda - the third consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting on the law. There are 60 Members and Members present, 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda - the second is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. First, we decide on the amendment of the Lip Group of Ambassadors to Article 10. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mrs Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, I would like to explain the amendment proposed by the Lipa Group in view of the fact that the Chamber was practically empty earlier when we discussed the amendment. The amendment was also created on the basis of a discussion by Members under the Penal Code tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or by the Ministry of Justice in the parliamentary procedure. At that time, we talked about a new way of putting up with the punishment. That is, a convicted person, a convicted person, may be sentenced to a new sentence at home or perform so-called works for the general benefit of humanitarian work. At that time there was a speech, and Mr State Secretary, who is also with us at this time, said that the Government would examine the possibility or the ministry and incorporate the contents of our proposal at that time into the framework of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. That didn't happen. That is why we have tabled an amendment to the Group of Members proposing and still insisting that the Ministry responsible and responsible for regulating the system of enforcement of criminal sanctions within the framework of work is responsible for the general benefit, so we propose that the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the other ministries in question, issue a sub-legislative act setting out in more detail the way, procedure and list of areas of enforcement work for general benefit. The fact is that they are convicted offenders of crimes, not workers seeking employment through public works. This is the case for convicted offenders who, in so far as they are going to be deprived of their liberty, have to comply with certain rules within the framework of the works in general benefit. And these rules of the game are the responsibility of no one but the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Justice has been elegantly relieved of its responsibilities and has moved the whole matter to social work centres. Social work centres will perform these tasks, but the Ministry of Justice is still the one that has to lay down the rules of the game. Once again, it's not about public works, but it's about perpetrators of crimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u144	Thank you. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Zagorac, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u145	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I myself will support the amendment, as I have already heard. It seems to me, or I am sure, that with this amendment we are essentially imposing on the legislator to finish the work he started and did not want to finish, just at the moment he became, I can guess, even a little confused. And then he went to do one story that wasn't the best practice in Slovenian law. It is said that you transferred the responsibility or possibility of enforcing an individual article of a particular law to another ministry. I'd like to remind you once again that this isn't about prevention, we're not talking here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u146	Please, calm down. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u147	Thank you, Mr. President. This isn't about prevention, it's about convictions for certain crimes. And with a submarital act that would also determine the possible appropriate work of a crime committed by someone, there would be nothing wrong with it. So someone who's caused, I don't know, a car accident, death on the road, and was sentenced to a year and eight months, I don't think they can fix a fence at some school, because it's simply not educational or anything else. I think we should give some other punishment with this. Once again, the Penal Code and criminal sanctions fall under criminal matters, under the Ministry of Justice. The social situation, social affairs, fall under the Ministry of Labour, the family and social affairs, and this is only overcrowded because of the situation created by this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I believe that we have not received an answer to two very current questions in the debate on the amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. The first is the question that has already been pointed out: Will social work centres be able to carry out the tasks assigned to them in a qualitative manner without being asked questions? And second is the question: Will the ready amendment of the law solve the serious problems we have in our detention homes, both with regard to prisoners who have an inadequate regime, because there are too many of them, as well as with guards who are too few and cannot perform all the tasks that would ensure the rehabilitation of prisoners? Neither was the answer given, because laws, especially those coming from the Ministry of Justice, are being resolved with the left hand by a majority and without serious debate. That's why I won't support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u150	Thank you. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 22 to 39. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS to Article 14. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, for 49, for 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS to Article 29. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, for 45, for 2. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 39. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS to Article 52a. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS to Article 55. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS to Article 57. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS to Article 106. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the drafter of the law if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third reading of the draft law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u152	Thank you. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the Act's amended proposal, the bill's proposer proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at this meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We are voting on the proposal. There are 70 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 25. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 54 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda - the second is the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We first decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 10. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 13. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 18. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 33. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS to Article 64. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS to Article 87. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 90. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third consideration of the draft law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u154	Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal and the decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 21. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Tuesday, 24 June 2008, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments adopted and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law on legal tariff. As the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. I'm breaking up. I'd ask you to raise your hand first. I must look through the entire hall before any vote. So, I'm opening an application to explain my vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Members and Members of the Social Democrats will vote against the law on legal tariff. The law is the result of the adopted Law on Lawyers. In our opinion, the adoption of the law is controversial from the point of view of the Constitution, because it does not guarantee the principle that lawyers are an independent service, as independence is also ensured through the participation of lawyers in their funding and legal tariff arrangements. Up until now, the setting of the legal tariff has been both in the hands of the Bar and in the consent of the Minister. Why it's changed is not clear to anyone. Probably in order to ensure the necessary authority and influence over this, justice also knows on its own, which is unacceptable to the rule of law. Finally, to talk about increasing democratic decision-making by setting legal tariffs in the National Assembly is a pure bluff. We know it's up to the Minister. We Members will have to confirm this or not, because none of us are capable of making a very complicated legal tariff in relation to all the services contained in the legal tariff. If this is what you want, members of the coalition can. We Members of the opposition do not want to do this and we will not agree to this. Finally, it is right to say that it is not true that the new legal tariff will be more favourable for the parties. It will not be more favourable because the parties will also be able to agree in advance on the level of the tariff. And especially not because where an agreement is to be reached, there will be an agreement with better lawyers and clients who can pay for it. However, where this agreement is to be concluded, it will not be for the benefit of anyone other than the lawyer, since the higher tariff cannot be applied by a party who has won in justice because the tariff provided for in the law is always charged through the court. This is an unnecessary change that is detrimental to the situation of the lawyer. We will be Members and Members of the Social Democrats against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u156	Thank you. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 71 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 26. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Public Compliance. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 50. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 54. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 35. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 56. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. I hereby conclude the second reading of the draft law and I give the floor to the proposal already proposed that the continuation take place at this meeting. [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]] Mr. Skull, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr President, what you are trying to do now is in the interests of the Government, I will say, a simple lumbarry that you can afford for the benefit of the coalition. You started the sentence by asking the proposer to say what he would do. The proposaler is not here, he says he has no interest in continuing this. Nor is it possible before the vote to deposit these wishes technically with the amendments and the votes. So I think it would be fair for the National Assembly and the Government to move forward because the proposer who should be here is not here to suggest it. The government has its on-call staff, and they're not, God knows, if they're not in any discussions about the provinces where [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Of course they do well, Mr Pukšič, but for their own good, but not for that, and what they are paid for. [[...]] It is the duty of the Government to be present at the meeting of the National Assembly, and I ask you, Mr President, how do you not find it strange that there is none of the Government at this time in the decision-making process in Parliament? Your proposal is to abuse the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u158	Thank you. It was verbally said, but if you don't accept it, you don't accept it, and I won't put it to the vote. It's not a problem. Therefore, we are now moving on to a decision on the proposal that the third reading law, which will be prepared by the Government at the next meeting, will be prepared by Mr Školč, who will be at the next meeting. We're voting. We vote on the proposal that the third reading text be prepared by the Government. There are 70 Members and Members present and 57 votes against 4. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. This concludes the agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 8th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Draft Revision Act. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Miran Potrč, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of Janez Janša to Mr Miran Potrč's question on the coordination of pensions. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u159	Thank you very much. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that, given the issues concerning pensioners, given the fact that the current reconciliation of pensions does not ensure coordination with net salaries, and given the differences in estimates between our Group and the Prime Minister of the Government at yesterday's meeting, it is appropriate to hold a debate. This is because yesterday the Prime Minister of the Government claimed that pensions literally and fully grow according to net wages. That's not true. Pensions in all years, both at a time in which the President of the Government thinks that pension coordination has been wrongly established and since July 2005, when the current pension coordination government is supposed to correctly determine, according to the President of the Government. Every year, all categories of average age pension, disability, family and total average pensions came in for a small proportion of pensions in salaries. There is also no greater difference between 2000 and 2004 when it is to be coordinated under the old law, on which Mr President said yesterday that we voted in favour of Members and Members of the Social Democrats - exactly, but also Mr President did not vote against, nor did Mr Bajuk vote against, nor did Mr Brejc vote against, nor does anyone. So that, together with DeSUS at that time, such coordination was known as acceptable. In July 2005, in line with DeSUS, the vote was recast as acceptable, and we voted in favour of this harmonisation, which did not produce any significantly better results, as there was still a backlog in all the years and in 2007 inflation was markedly 2% compared to net wages. That is why it is right, it is a category of over 500,000 citizens and citizens to discuss this issue at the National Assembly, and I expect your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u160	Thank you. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 37. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with the proposal by the Member, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš's question on achieving the goal of Slovenia - the state of prosperity. You have the floor to explain the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mrs Žgajner.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. I couldn't say everything yesterday because you interrupted me, Mr President, but the facts remain. If we are indeed in a period of prosperity, why do we continue to work and accept social remedies from January to mitigate the negative effects of inflation? We are once again hearing through the media that Slovenia is the highest in the European Union in May at the rate of inflation. We hear that the budget surplus referred to by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is exaggerated. We are listening to the fact that the social adjustments that we are taking in the framework of the National Assembly will be adopted at this meeting by the so-called Dragan Supplement, not all those who should be entitled to them will receive them. Yesterday I tried to get an answer from the Prime Minister. Why won't the disabled be excused? So those people who drive on the PIZ under code 09. These are persons receiving compensation from disability insurance as the only income for survival on the basis of past work. These people in 2007 and November, due to the law on coordination of transfers, did not have to be harmonised by compensation. They only belong to a lower annual allowance and, as has already been said, they will not be eligible for the Draganj allowance. On the other hand, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia boasts the positive effects of social, pension, tax reform, I will tell you what the result of these reforms is. The disabled person for half-time in March 2008 will receive a salary of €141. At the same time, it receives EUR 218 of pension, from which the State has to pay EUR 23 tax on personal income. In other words, this person has four working days for part-time work due to disability pension. He's only working a month to pay his taxes to the state. Four days for the state to pay its taxes. And you know what happened to these people under the new income law? These persons, who received a total of less than €4,000 per year in 2007, are obliged to return their income to the State of 30 euros. These are the consequences of the reforms of this government and it would be fair to speak about this at a meeting of the National Assembly. After all, we are all responsible for finding the right way out of, I will not say the state of prosperity, but from this situation in which some of our citizens and states have come.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 24 to 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal by Mr Mate Lahovnik to decide on the next proposal for a decision. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question by Dr Matthew Lahovnik on the initiative to set up the financial police. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 35. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that this proposal is not adopted either. In accordance with Mrs Majda Širca's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, to the question of the question of the Ambassador Maja Širc concerning the progress of the renewal and the reconstruction of SNG Opera and the ballet of Ljubljana. On behalf of the delegation? The word is yours, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The proposal to hold a debate in response to Minister Simoniti is not mine, but this proposal was made by Minister Simonita himself, because he believes that all the doubts that appear maliciously within the yellow and pink and any other press that assumes that the construction of SNG Ljubljana is not the most correct or that the excessive expenditure incurred is the one. Expenditures have tripled in the first phase of construction, but there are three. They should also be reviewed in the light of such malicious convictions. Of course, I agree with him. And if you vote against his proposal, then you disagree with your minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 39. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mr Dusan Kumr's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior, to the Kumr's question on activities in the fight against economic crime. An explanation of the voice in your own name? On behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! While in the National Assembly a week ago we called an extraordinary meeting on economic crime on the basis, mostly on the basis of newspaper articles, the two most important authorities in the country are the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and the Police are in conflict or are in conflict with each other at a time when the Prime Minister announced there that we are well prepared and trained to fight organised economic crime more vigorously. I must say that I was not satisfied with the Minister's answers yesterday, nor was he, in my opinion, ready to respond in concrete terms. That's why, or whether he did so on purpose, so it seems to me that the police's findings seem to be selective in handling matters and that it's passive in some cases, especially in the case of "Patria", but it's not too much or it's not even made out of vines, but that they might be holding them. So, a serious question is raised in this fight against economic crime: Is the professional autonomy of the police not too much under the influence of every single current authority? Even in this case, especially for the initiation of investigation procedures and the procedures themselves, in the particular case of "Patry", it is more than obvious when foreign experts tell us to use this term, the services say that corruption exists in Slovenia, in which case our authorities remain silent. That is why I think that this debate makes sense for us to clarify some things.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 39. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. We are moving on to the decision of the National Assembly on the proposal, on my proposal, i.e. Member Saš Pečet, to decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for the Economy of Mags. Andrej Visiak asked Member Saš Pečet about the sale of state property in northern Slovenia. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 40. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by the Member of Parliament, colleague Janko Webra will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport of Mags. Radovan Žerjava to the question of Member Janko Vebra on the preparation of the rehabilitation programme for Slovenian Railways. Explanation of voice. I can see more hands. I'm opening the procedure on behalf of the sent groups, please. On behalf of the SD Group, Ambassador Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the situation in the Slovenian railways. Indeed, the comparison of the results of the operation between 2007 and 2008 shows that freight traffic had 3 million euros in profits in 2007, in the first half of the year. Well, at the quarter of 2008, we find that freight traffic already has 2.7 million euros in losses. Given the loss of 2.86 million euros in passenger transport, we are talking about some 5.5 million euros in loss already in the first quarter of 2008. And since we know that Slovenian railways are also in debt of EUR 300 million, there is an extremely high risk that the budget will also have to assume greater obligations than it has at this moment, when it settles to a large extent the costs of public passenger transport. However, we believe that the issue of spillage and non-transparent operations is also being raised due to the spillover of infrastructure maintenance resources into freight transport and public passenger transport. We know this is contrary to the European Directive. Finally, the European Directive requires us to open Slovenian routes to foreign operators. Of course, we can quickly find out that foreign operators will have the desire and the opportunity to take over a large part of freight transport in particular. And if we know that Slovenian railways are paying around €1.5 million for Slovenian railways instead of €8 million and €9 million as required by the rules, such a situation will be particularly beneficial for foreign operators who under the same conditions will be able to use our railway tracks and we will thus not only subsidise the Slovenian operator, but also all foreign ones, but from the resources of the state budget. Such a situation is indeed extremely worrying and I believe that there is a need to discuss this issue, particularly because it would not be reasonable to bring the Slovenian Railways' operation to a level so that we can pay off the loans we have rented with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u168	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS Group, Comrade Branko Marinič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u169	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are happy to be concerned about the situation on Slovenian railways, and we are also concerned that there have been many shortcomings in the past. By doing so, I do not wish to expose and protect what has been done well in the past, but it is during this time that Slovenian railways are dealing with major problems, for many times we have been reminded by one of our fellow Members, when he repeatedly stresses that freight road transport needs to be diverted to rail tracks. If railways were infrastructurally able to take over many cargoes, the situation on Slovenian railways today would be significantly better, at least in the field of freight transport. However, it is true that Slovenian railways, with regard to the situation of the numbers presented, are also concerned that they are aware of this in the management of the Slovenian Railways and, as the Minister said in explanation, the Slovenian Railway Management has also prepared the necessary measures to follow up on, so in the field of freight transport they have created a number of new products that they want and want to break into those markets that they have not so far. Here are exposed to many new train connections, which mainly lead from Luka Koper to the Czech Republic, from Ljubljana to Niš and some others on a relation to Turkey, to Istanbul. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that this large Slovenian company, the Slovenian Railways, will be able to break through and improve the results we have heard and what the Minister of Transport has also said. Of course, we do not want to constantly, over and over again, open up controversy about the fact that everything on Slovenian railways is wrong and that it leads together to a blind track, we are confident that the management of Slovenian railways will ensure that Slovenian railways operate in the future better and meaningful economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. And in accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Zvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior, to the question of mags. Milan M. Squeaky, regarding the purchase of 8x8. Does anyone want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? Just a friend of mine. Comrade Squeakle, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Dragutin Mate did not answer my question yesterday simply because he said that it was an operational matter, that the matter was alive, that he was talking to his colleague, the Finnish Minister of the Interior, but as I should have known, he could not say anything more about it. My question was: How does it assess the involvement of Slovenian police with investigative and other law enforcement authorities, both in Slovenia and abroad? And of course, I was particularly interested in what in the last year, when, according to the Finnish investigative authorities, the complaint and the document came from a third country, were done by Slovenian investigative authorities, Slovenian police. Or is it thesis that it has a political impact on these institutions? As you all could see, the Finnish investigative authorities had to come to Slovenia to carry out some of the evidence and some discussions. Mr Mate said that he can't talk about it, so I think it's good, given that an agreement was made yesterday, that things have started to happen, that we should talk about it at the next meeting. It would also be good to talk about how he assesses the involvement of Slovenian police in the sense of closed or related criminal proceedings. One such case was submitted a year ago with documentation concerning, if you like, the Virans, proving some payments to people close to the SDS. I therefore believe that it would be right for colleagues, especially colleagues from the coalition, because of your dependence, to allow such a debate in the National Assembly, nowhere else can we do it. And I believe that since this debate will be in one month's time, it will then be possible to assess whether the political pressure on the Slovenian police is also in relation to non-cooperation with the anti-corruption commission and how the Slovenian police cooperate with the Slovenian prosecutor's office. Above all, as will be the case in these days, this is a rather new situation when the Slovenian authorities signed an agreement with the Finnish authorities, concluded and conducted an investigation into the indication of irregularities, suspected corruption in the purchase of 8x8. So if you are in favour of eliminating the suspicion of corruption of clienteleism, if you are in favour of what your President of the Government says that this government will start the fight against corruption and clienteleism, then support this proposal. If you reject the proposal, it is clear that you do not want to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-17-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u172	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 40. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that this decision is not adopted either. This concludes the agenda. I'm adjourning the 40th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow morning at 9:00. Until then, say good-bye.
