ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 38th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlich, Roberto Battelli, Franc [[Ferry]] Horvat, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Aurelio Juri, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Marko Pavliha, Aloise Posedel, Majda Potrata, Michael Prevc and Aloise Sok. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the setting of the agenda for the 38th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the 27 June 2008 meeting. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. We are moving on to the agenda. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the operation of the voting devices - yellow light, inserted card. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 38th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law amending the law on the integration of Transfers by Individuals and the Lordship in the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr William Rezman. I give the floor to a representative of the bill's proponents. Mr. Willie Rezman, please, you have the floor to further explain the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Well, due to the fact that the story is well-known, there is no need to explain too long and in detail further, but a few words about what we think in the DeSUS Group about the coordination of transfers. Let me first say that this law is actually a parable or that it is a saga of coordination within coalition partners, but which has not been too successful and perhaps even today, once we have adopted the law, will not end. In the DeSUS Group, we hope that at least we will not repeat the tragic history of the day in order to capture water with pots of pots and work so infertilely. Following a meeting of the parent's working body, it shows that at least something will be discriminated against for those who were under the law adopted in 2006. We have in mind the law which, with a few rights, has brought so many pensioners, so exiles, so many disabled people, so those who are unemployed, and so those who are sick, and we would like to return something with our suggestions. It's not about new rights, it's about trying to get back what was unjustifiably taken from them. The October 2006 Act therefore caused injustice. In the DeSUS Group, we have drawn up a proposal for a law to fix this. Unfortunately, at that time the government did not hear our wishes, and then our coalition parliamentary groups also responded negatively by promising that we would do it later, and one even said it directly, although today it is fair that if those who were entitled to some rights, additionally or re-establish those rights, they would actually have the principles of a social state. Today, a year after that, they feel differently, say they are for social justice and will support, otherwise slightly amended draft legislation prepared by us in the Desus Group. The main findings in both the first and the second laws, which we also corrected in the Desus Group, were as follows. The first observation was that this was a burden for public finances. This is true, and this is what we wanted in the parliamentary group, so from public finances, we would return their rights to those on whose account it was saved. Even with the second and the last, this third proposal of the law remained the government's point of view. Another observation is that we are proposing the wrong method of coordination and that we are thus making a mess of the coordination methodology. We do not agree with this either, but if we will have to give in to this, we will achieve at least what is minimally possible to be coordinated among coalition partners, because the opposition has supported us, at least until now, and we have also been supported by the Slovenian People's Party's Group in the last proposal. That is why we hope that this third proposal, which we have also drawn up in the Group of Members and that we will also offer to sign it to other Members and Members of Parliament, will succeed. The amendments drafted by the two NSIs on the proposal of the Government, while the SDS, in turn, allocate what we want to contribute to a better social situation for those who are recipients of social transfers. Therefore, despite the adoption of a complementary proposal on the home working body, we are proposing two more amendments to this supplementary proposal. The first one speaks of us judging that it is right, however, to coordinate transfers with wage growth. And others talk about how we think it makes it right to coordinate transfers in such a way that they are accounted for back at the same time. These two amendments have been tabled, please consider them, please support us in these two proposals and finally say: it is right to return to those who have been taken from them and to repay them as much as they have been taken from them.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. Mr. Brenčič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. All present and welcome. The Committee, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia at its 23rd emergency meeting, 30.6. The committee was attended by a representative of the proposaler Willi Rezman, a government representative with the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Andrej Širclje and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of Miroslav Palhartinger. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and made comments to Articles 1 and 2. The Committee was given an opinion by the Government, which opposes the proposal for a law because it considers that the existing solutions to the law on the harmonisation of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia are more appropriate than proposed. Three amendments were submitted to the draft law within the time limit of business: Article 1 by the SDS Group and NSI and Article 2 by the same two groups of Members and the DeSUS Group of Members. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service briefly explained the written opinion and also drew attention to the proposed second paragraph of Article 1, where the explanation shows that for individual transfers coordination is restored in the manner laid down by the sectoral rules in force prior to the implementation of the Law on the Coordination of Transfers to Households and Individuals. It stressed that the original legal regime no longer applies, so simply removing those transfers from the framework of those transfers, which are coordinated in the manner laid down by the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households, would result in a legal void, since without a new definition of how to harmonise the legal basis for the coordination of these benefits they will no longer be given. The Committee then moved on to a debate on the draft law and brought together a debate on both articles at the same time. In the light of the amendments tabled, the representative of the proposer said that the amendments would be supported, although they considered their solution to be better, since all transfers to individuals instead of increasing their living costs would be aligned with the growth of the average gross wage per employee. Two times a year in February and November. There's both bills back since the beginning of the year. Nevertheless, they find the proposed amendment, which introduces two-year coordination with the rise in the price of living costs, acceptable, although compromise is a step forward. Other discussers also announced support for the amendment and the bill's proposal as they felt that a different solution from the present would certainly be better and more favourable for the beneficiaries of social transfers. They also agreed with the amendment following the implementing provision, as it would enable recipients of transfers that are most materially at risk of high inflation to align their income more quickly. This also exposed the position of one of the discussers that the system should not and cannot be changed, regardless of the current situation, so they will not support the proposal. The following discussion expressed the view that the issue must be dealt with with with in all seriousness, as some discussers believe that such a change in attitude was only due to the pre-election campaign. For at least two years, the opposition failed to provide initiatives to improve the situation of the materially weak and failed with no proposal. In view of the questions about what this means for the burden of the budget, the Secretary of State said that the Government opposes the basic proposal of the law. In the light of the amendment to Article 1 of the two parliamentary groups proposing to align twice a year with the rise in the price of living costs, he stressed that the Government could redistribute these funds between items. The financial implications of such a solution would be approximately EUR 25 million, of which EUR 16 million would go out of the budget and the rest would be the contribution of the PSIZ from the pension fund. In the context of the debate on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the amendment to Articles 1 and 2 and thus fully reformed the draft law, which in such a form and form of the form of the supplementary proposal of the law and which we transmit to you for discussion and adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u5	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Romani Tomc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government does not support the proposal for a law amending the Act on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia, which was tabled by the Member States' Group and DeSUS Members. The proposed amendment would introduce an inadequate and unacceptable way of valorising transfers, their alignment with the nominal growth in gross salaries of employees for all social transfers. With such a solution, Slovenia would also be a special feature in the European area, as most EU countries as an valorisation mechanism for a number of types of social rights take into account price increases rather than wage increases. At the same time, it should also be stressed that such a solution would have an extraordinary impact on the state budget, as well as on other budgets. However, the Government is aware that some of the transfers covered by the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households are intended for the materially most threatened or materially weak population of the country and, of course, that under conditions of increased inflation, the current mode of coordination of these recipients puts the recipient in an unfavourable position. The government therefore supports the proposal that the transfers covered by this law continue to be aligned with the rising cost of living, but that coordination should be carried out twice a year, taking into account the current rising price of living needs. Such a way will continue to maintain the basic principle of uniform coordination of all transfers with the prices of living needs, while also taking into account the possibility of ensuring the real value of transfers by taking account of price developments even during the year. This will, of course, mean higher remuneration from the perspective of the recipients of transfers. Contrary to the proposal by the Group of Members and DeSUS members, which provides that the law will not enter into force until 2010, the Government also supports the solution that the changes will enter into force immediately and that further coordination will be carried out already on the basis of taking into account the price rise in the first half of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u7	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u8	Thank you very much. If we call this a fundamental sin for today's debate on this subject-matter law and whether we accept it or not, it happened in 2005 when the Government, in the framework of the economic and social reform project, also drafted a proposal for a law on the coordination of social transfers between individuals and households, or transfers financed from the State budget. Unfortunately, this project was set up at that time quite hard and all too simplistic, as was understood by some, or then, development ministers or ministers, who quickly retreated behind each other. The Slovenian People's Party has managed, through a fairly hard negotiation, to ease at least a few of the most rigorous approaches, to change. However, unfortunately, there are still some unacceptable things left in the law that was then passed in 2006, particularly those transfers that form part of the system in the system of pension and disability insurance. This is, in the first place, the basis for the assessment of the additional rights envisaged by the system for its sustainability and, as a result, the most unjustifiablely suspended transfer, this is a safeguard supplement, in equal coordination with all transfers. Unfortunately, the government hasn't responded to the situation in a long time. Some of us have consistently argued that this way of coordinating the basis for the assessment of additional entitlements under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and the Social Security Supplement itself will make it possible for the recipients of the lowest pensions to remain virtually in non-conformity for a good time. And that's what happened. After some time the Government reacted with the Protection Supplement Act and took this supplement from the pension-disability insurance system, although this is a poor approach. The security allowance in this respect is a fundamental postulate of the pension and disability insurance system for sustainability also low income or low pensions. This was followed by pressure from both the affected and the politicians, including through several proposals, to amend the law on the system of coordination of social transfers. This has happened to some extent right now with the latest case, when the ruling team also found on the parent labour body that, given the reality of inflation that will follow, the pressure on recipients of social transfers needs to be mitigated. Thus, the Committee has been amended to coordinate transfers not as proposed twice a year with the growth of gross wages, but to coordinate twice a year with the rising prices of living needs, statistically established. In any event, such an approach is necessary in view of the real situation created by the Act on the Coordination of Social Transfers. For the Slovenian People's Party Group, from a systemic point of view and the type of content of each transfer, it is almost unacceptable for all transfers to be coordinated in the same way as wages, without going into each transfer at the moment. We regret that some transfers, which form part of a system such as pension and disability insurance, are not all returned to the system of coordination, not only a security supplement, but it is important for us that the security allowance and the basis for the grant of additional rights are now being coordinated differently. Two-time annual coordination Two-year coordination with the rising prices of the living needs of other transfers is certainly welcome, and we are asked how we will coordinate the annual allowance, which is unique in May, how this supplement will be coordinated twice. In any case, it is likely that it will be complemented or otherwise by the calculation. We will support the proposed complementary bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u9	Thank you. Ms Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u10	Good-bye! We can't say hello this time, either, in our ranks. In recent times, ministers and ministers are no longer in the National Assembly, rather than a little fear being present, so we are discussing more or less with other staff. Let me stress that we are also facing a case this time, which points to the irresponsibility not to say that politics is immature, because the government, the current government, has adopted a 2006 law on harmonisation of transfers in a quick and urgent manner - let's say that the regulation - the area without having previously done an analysis of the situation, the projection of the proposed changes and without giving any clear goals; the result is today. At the time, she was playing like she was playing and experimenting literally in person. Of course, such experiments soon prove to be wrong, incomplete, and short - term solutions. And what's next? New experiment! This time, this experiment shuts down the proposal of the proposaler DeSUS, who himself acknowledges that he is going or hopes that it will not be "with a working pot of water capture"; this water that runs before the elections is actually covered by a broken pot. However, given the current social situation in the country, we believe that we should have a broader debate on the regulation of the field of coordination and payment of various transfers, we should seek long-term systemic solutions based on serious analyses and projections and should be a sustainable system, but not one day so, the other day otherwise, for one way or another. The proposal for a new law follows the objective, mitigation or mitigation of losses due to high inflation felt by many recipients of transfers. This month's inflation is 7%, at an annual level of 4%. Transfers should be re-coordinated twice a year, as we have heard, and as we have actually concluded on the Home Committee, given the rising prices of living needs. We must stress, however, that these solutions also do not provide clear answers to the question of what would be the appropriate measures to enable and maintain social sustainability in Slovenia. We hear that the law will have 16 million euros in consequences. Of course, this raises the issue of confidence in budget planning and its coherence, if we can move this money without a balance just before the currents. But unfortunately, with the slightly changed proposal that is before us today, we offer a large number of people a piece of bread more, instead of finally regulating the system so that people have a refrigerator full all the time. And here's the problem. The question is how will we change this system if inflation continues to grow in the future, and it will appear so, and the question is, of course, how will we deal with these fire raids at that time. However, since this solution, which is offered and then completed, as corrected by the Government, means something better than nothing or at least something, we will support the proposal of the Law in the Zares Group, regardless of what we say to be a handball experiment, even this time an experiment that, in part or in the last minute, solves something that should have been resolved long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u11	Thank you. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The fundamental purpose of the introduction of our law was to remedy the harmful consequences of the Social Transfers Act, which was adopted in 2006. The government has frozen a number of rights, not only the so-called social transfers, but also the seven rights of pensioners, the rights of victims of war violence, veterans of war, disabled persons, sick employees and compensation for unemployed, scholarships, etc. In doing so, it should be noted that the funds of EUR 34.7 million from the previous year, with this freezing in 2007, will also be saved in all subsequent years because they will not be paid. Thus, this savings are long-term, while beneficiaries have lost that part of the increase that was not made last year, so to speak, for life, which the Government forgets in the burdens of the budget. The government has itself undermined a uniform way of coordinating transfers with the Protection Supplement Act. This is also the only right of pensioners who have been returned. The government intervenes in the Unemployment Insurance Act, in the Health Insurance Act, when it freezes the sick, and of course in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, in fact, the principle of legal rights without the possibility of opposing the insured, both pensioners and health insurance providers, as the unemployment insurers, and thus caused a great deal of hardship for all those with low incomes in the past year, when the government was nowhere with high inflation and high inflation. Our law also intended to reduce poverty in this country, because the social transfer law affected the poorest of our citizens, of course, and the government in 2007, when this happened, was nowhere. Then, after the introduction of our law on the termination of the transfer law, she began to think about it and passed some laws to try to mitigate the matter. I must say that I am disappointed that the Slovenian People's Party has given up its support for our amendment, which means not only coordination with wage growth, but only with the growth of pensions. Pensions do not grow with wage increases, which, of course, the government does not really repeat over time. An intervention in public finances by a little faster increases social transfers, but it means a struggle for the survival of a species of layers. And the government, for example, has proposed a single-paying law to pensioners on the expense of certain amounts, simply ignoring 250,000 workers who earn less than €500 net and, of course, all social supporters and all those who are unemployed and whose income is even less than €400. This government measure is insufficient and intervention in public finances is necessary in terms of poverty in our country. I must say that I am sorry that the Government is also today citing unrealistic data and arguments, particularly when it speaks of comparability in Europe. When European wages are paid in our country, this comparison would then be justified. Today, our wages are far below Europeans, and the rewards of this comparison do not hold criticism back. With regard to the validity of the proposed law, we have tabled an amendment to enforce the law immediately after adoption, but we have withdrawn it because it has already been tabled by two coalition parties similar to the amendment and it has been pointless to vote on two simultaneous amendments. Thus this observation by the Government, which says that we only wanted to enforce this law in 2010, does not withstand criticism and is actually attracted to hair, while it was present on the home committee when this was discussed. In short, if our amendment to this law is not adopted, this matter will be slightly corrected, but it is necessary to know that, with falling inflation, poverty will increase and the social situation of all recipients of transfers will deteriorate from day to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings from a respected colleague, respected colleagues, including visitors, nice greetings! The government regularly says that it provides systemic solutions and wishes to have in its proposals a process of adopted cases which systematically regulate individual areas. And it is precisely in this law that we - by the way - let me say that in order to convene this extraordinary meeting we are also signatories to our party, and we believe that this injustice must be corrected. Why? Since the law in force on the coordination of social transfers affects socially affected citizens and citizens is withdrawing or reducing the already acquired, with the laws of social rights guaranteed. We are something that has already been in the past, now that this law, which has been very simple to frustrate and torn out of context, has been the essential purpose of this law, which the applicant has put into practice, has been adopted, and we have thought that we have eliminated these social injustices, but we have caused new ones. Today, Slovenia is essentially recording the highest level of inflation on statistical data. In the Slovenian National Party, we are confident that the lowest social layer is not in any way responsible or responsible for the emergence of inflation. And if we are a social state, as stated in Article 2 of the Constitution, then we should, not twice a year as discussed here today, coordinate these social transfers, but coordinate them with inflation growth. That would be fair if we were a social state. However, since the success of Slovenia is being built on poverty and this picture of performance being shown to the world has essentially produced new social problems, 16 million is a problem, which is suddenly 16 million problems. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, is it a problem when we talk about how many awards someone from the Governing Council will receive, and the surface of everything has not yet been successful in managing? Is it a problem when some illegally suffer millions of euros in their own pockets, hundreds of millions of euros, billionaires - this is not a problem! This country looks at it calmly and even smiles when, in fact, these things are already happening in everyday life, and they are no longer hidden! Nor is it a problem that during the night we have modern - day rich people and that they even hope to tell you that the procedures have been carried out legally, transparently, and that no one has been harmed! Nor is it a problem that Slovenia has 250 000 socially endangered living citizens and citizens on the brink of living poverty - it is not a problem either. The problem is €16 million to ensure what is said in this proposal - that is the problem! If the Government has - of course, the representative of the Government has replied that she will oppose what the applicant proposes - a serious problem to find these 16 million euros, I propose that we take them from the amount of 600 million euros we have earmarked to compensate the war damage to the victims there in Argentina, the patriots and others. 600 million - there's no problem! Transfers paid either by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, either by the state or by the municipality, are called for coordination, not twice a year, as said, after ongoing coordination with at least monthly inflation growth. And if inflation is not, if we have the opportunity to raise wages in society on the basis of new added value, then there will be no problem for these corrections. Of course, we will be happy to support the proposer and I hope that, despite the withdrawal of one of the parties, the Slovenian People's Party, a sufficient majority will be reached today if anything is necessary in the National Assembly, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u15	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Lipa Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, distinguished guests and all those who accompany us! At the beginning of the mandate, the government stated among its objectives: "The long-term sustainability of public finances must be ensured." In October 2005, Janez Janša said: "This government saves where it can be saved." And a year later, a law was passed that still represents the injustice of social transfers to families. We have tried three times in this mandate to correct this government error that has been made. At one of the previous meetings, where we discussed a law to repeal the government law on coordination of transfers, the largest government party in the SDS was silent because they had been banned from speaking. They were silent, respected colleagues and colleagues, when we discussed poverty and injustice in our society. I wonder who among us actually lives on the social side, where poverty begins and why poverty ever occurs. At the same time, I claim that the Government, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is also responsible for poverty with its policy. Poverty is either the responsibility of structural change in society or the fault of structural change in society. And these structural changes in society are happening, hand to heart, because of government policy. It has also been adopted either a draft or a government strategy from which it comes out - and I will go specifically to the system of transfers and I believe that you will agree with me that if we did not have social transfers in our country, poverty would be greater. That's a fact. According to some calculations, even 40% of people would have a threshold of poverty if they did not have a system of social transfers. But the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken measures in the area of the social transfer system, saying: "News compared to the current regulation is also a single inclusion of social transfers into income. Assigned transfers will thus be taken into account when allocating the others." And you know what that means in practice, respected colleagues and colleagues? That families who receive a child allowance should return "unjustified" in quotations paid a child allowance due to these new government measures. They're getting bills because of the new system of transfers. And you know what that means in practice, respected colleagues and colleagues? That a person with a name and surname, a citizen of our country, from Gorenjska, from Jesenic can't call on the phone because he can only afford €10 per month for emergency phone calls; because a cancer patient and receives €360 from disability insurance; in a rental apartment. And this woman says, "Come, look, I have an empty refrigerator at home." And you know what that means in practice? That a person with a name and surname from Trbovlje calls today on the phone and says, "What's going on with this government?Oh, my God! What's going on with this government?Oh, my God! My husband, a disabled pensioner, does not have EUR 400 per month of financial resources, and I am entitled as an unemployed person to EUR 16 of monetary social assistance!" These are the consequences of government measures. A single system of coordination of transfers, social and all others. And you know what happened today at the College, when we, I will say, wanted to, also with other laws, correct those mistakes made by the Government, even within the framework of the Social Protection Act. The government coalition said, "No! In this mandate, we will no longer amend the laws, except for what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will need to get a few new political points. I apologize - The DeSUS Group is exempted from this criticism because it was the only one who had the courage to support the Lip Group's proposal as a government party. I wonder if the government is really so good and so fair to people in our country. I'm saying no. In the Lipa Group, we will be supporting the bill, which is on the table today, and we have also prepared some amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u17	Thank you. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! Above all, among the opposition Members, such a contemptible law on the coordination of transfers between individuals and households, which we adopted at the end of 2006, had a very good objective. All transfers which until then have been regulated to comply with or with the projected increase in the price of living needs or are aligned with the growth of the average gross wage of all employees in the Republic of Slovenia, with the growth of the average net salary, guaranteed wages, minimum wages, initial wages for non-economic activities or the average wage under the collective agreement for economic activities, will be coordinated once a month in January with the increase in the price of life in January-December of the previous year compared to the same period in the year before. We can say that before that we had a complete confusion because some transfers did not make calculations, while others once a year, pensions and other transfers from the pension register, and some, for example, are sick several times a year. This resulted in major anomalies, since in the event of a prolonged absence, this could even exceed a month’s salary. On the basis of the analysis carried out during the period of validity of the law, the law has had positive consequences in relation to the following transfers: child allowance, child care allowance, large family allowance, child support, parental allowance, pensions, cash social assistance, unemployment benefits, parental benefits, mental and physical protection measures, Republic scholarships, human resources scholarships, unemployment scholarships, unemployment benefits, out-of-work benefits, family member care and escorts, and other transfers. Together, however, we found that a protective allowance was not sufficiently carefully and carefully addressed, so in January 2008 we adopted the Protection Supplement Act, which established a different way of coordinating a protective allowance, which is paid as a social correction along with pensions. With the adoption of the law, the allowance, the widow's pension and the allowance for pensions established in other republics of the former SFRJ were paid to pensioners in a higher amount when pensions were coordinated in February 2008, and in the future they will be coordinated in the same way as pensions, i.e. with wage increases. What, then, was the apple of the conflict? The Article, which provides that in the event that the harmonisation of the individual transfer in 2006 was higher than the increase in the prices of consumption in the period January-December 2006 than in the same period in 2005, no harmonisation shall be carried out in 2007. In the SDS Group, we still believe that there is no need and no basis for transfers to be aligned with wages, whether net, gross, guaranteed, minimal, average or any other that would fit in with someone on short notice. There are many transfers that do not have the basis and basis to align themselves with wages or wage growth, and in most European countries, it is a practice to align social transfers with the annual cost of living and not to pay. If we adopted the law, as proposed by the DeSUS Group, we would think that we would reintroduce an inadequate and unacceptable way of valorising transfers. There's a lot of talk about high inflation. Let us say honestly that without accusing ourselves of who is to blame and what is to blame, the coordination of transfers with the growth of living needs or inflation is essentially the positive instrument of coordination that the opposition and various experts oppose. When we talk about big inflation, the most positive role in this case is basic mathematics: real higher inflation, higher transfers, because we look at the cost of living. The DeSUS delegation wished to move away from a fair and transparent arrangement in the field of coordination of transfers by re-entering its electoral base, since it was likely that it would wish to consider only transfers received by pensioners, which, as has already been said, had forgotten certain provisions of the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act. We believe or hope that it was a mistake and that DeSUS does not merely explain intergenerational solidarity in a one-way manner. In the SDS Group, we believe that, as with the ever-increasing number of older populations, it is also appropriate to provide for young and other groups. We will therefore support in the parliamentary group the amendment of the law by adopting amendments that maintain the transparent distribution of social transfers and provide for the coordination of transfers with the growth of living costs twice a year; and [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and brings the first coordination already in August 2008, a 4.1% increase taking into account the price rise in the first half of this year. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, respected visitors on the balcony! It's all under the heading. It's not true. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposed law on the coordination of transfers, just as we have supported all solutions so far, which constitute a more equitable coordination of social transfers. It is a shame, however, that today we are adopting amendments to this law, because in 2006, when we adopted the basic law that has done the most injustices, the way of coordination could be regulated to allow for the maintenance of the real level of social transfers. At that time, the Social Democrats proposed an amendment whereby transfers would be coordinated in time and in the manner set out for pensions. This is also the solution proposed today by the bill-maker. From then on, we have warned the Social Democrats that the government's law on social transfers coordination is weak and will result in a relative reduction in the level of individual income, which will ultimately lead to poverty and social distress. This actually happened today. And today, as the elections are approaching, we are witnessing a fire-fighting action by which the coalition wants to ease its bad public impressions at least a little. And there are more of these paths from day to day. Unfortunately, this will not alleviate the plight of people who have been living worse every day since we have this government. In doing so, of course, they are not helped by the various statistics with which the Government wants to tell them that everything is good in Slovenia and that we are living a golden age. Following a number of measures that have made life worse for many in this country, that I am not talking about values at all, we cannot believe that the coalition actually cares about a small person. If it were, the law on the strengthening of social transfers in this form would never have been adopted. Nor would many other laws have been passed that have pushed the so - called little man to the brink of survival. But saving on the shoulders of the weak is obviously the easiest. What the government is doing today is unworthy of someone who wants to lead the country in a responsible manner. For three and a half years with a large spoon, the government took the average, especially to small people, and today, with a small tea spoon, it divides the pieces and slowly takes the polling points. In other words, all coalition parties, although sometimes opposed to certain solutions, are threatened with withdrawals from the coalition, but only when their human resources interests are threatened. If any of them had used such a threat even when adopting laws that have brought about a deterioration of the situation of people, today we would not have to correct the mistakes of the ruling coalition due to the upcoming elections. When we warned the Government of Social Democrats in due time where its decisions led us, as usual, to the deaf ears and cynicism of the government. Let's just remember the statements made by the Prime Minister, who said, "The crisis can't happen as long as all the dumpsters look at bread crumbs." Today, respected, these dumpsters seem to be empty because coalition support for this law is proof that a crisis has indeed taken place in Slovenia. However, I must also point out that it is interesting that, a good month ago, when adopting the same legislation, in particular the amendment of the law, the State Secretary argued that the way of coordination, as it is now in force, is not a direct reason for the deterioration of the situation of the materially weak. Apparently, the government was wrong and is trying to fix what it missed two years ago today in some way. As has already been said, we will support the amendment of the law by Members and Members of the Social Democrats. We will also support the amendments of DeSUS, because, unlike the ruling coalition, we are prepared to vote in favour of proposals that improve the social situation of people. Of course, we do not look back on this, as do others who are under the law or who are proposing, but are important to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u22	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr President, Secretary of State! We have before us the law we passed in May, 22.5.2008 was the vote, 37 against, 31 against, and 68 votes in favour. Today’s or the law that DeSUS or Mr. Rezman filed is of course not significantly different. The amendments we have adopted on the Committee have changed, however. It wasn't an addition, but it was a subtraction that we were in the clear. These amendments were not an addition, but a withdrawal, because this way less money will be redeployed than was considered through the proposal for a basic amendment to the law on harmonisation of transfers. The government law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households was in force in the Republic of Slovenia, for example, such a very varied system of coordination, the valorisation of transfers, something coordinated with average wages, something with baselines, something with the lowest, something with a pension base and something with an annual increase in living costs, and it was also coordinated over different periods. Indeed, the matter was not transparent from a systemic point of view, so the Government decided then that all transfers to individuals and households would be aligned with the price growth index once a year, in January. Life, of course, didn't match that. Life just has other legalities, and now it turns out that these things have frozen a series of transfers as well as other benefits. These are rights of different types, family benefits, social support, compensations, then funds from the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance, so annual allowance, allowance for assistance, then frozen rights under five different laws, namely health care, health insurance, then compensation for sickness, occupational diseases, injuries at work, etc. As early as last October, a proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the coordination of transfers was tabled in the procedure but was not adopted. Then the government tried to correct this a little bit, in January with the Protection Supplement Act and the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, but all of this did not significantly stop the decline of the standard. These solutions, which we are now witnessing to in the last month, are unique and certainly preeminent. I would also stop at that; here, of course, it sounds a lot like an obvious, although it is clear that we all - of course I am talking about the first person of the crowd and I am thinking about the parties here and the Members as individuals - certainly at this point we will not oppose the laws, which, if for the mouse's hair, solve the social difficulties in which people are. But then we also have to ask ourselves about our honesty and credibility. But it wasn't like that a month ago. A month or a month and a half ago - not to be unjust - it was 37 to 31 for those who were not willing to face social problems. But the closer we go to the elections, the more heroes. How many will there be after the end? Then we'll all be heroes or something! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished Secretary of State, Director-General, Visitors, welcome! Instead of the calls we have heard from some of the speakers back in the past, into socialist self-government and away from the market economy, my performance will be linked exclusively to the amendment of the law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. The law introduced by the Group of Members, with first-signed colleague William Rezman, as a key solution, proposes the coordination of all transfers to individuals and households, with the growth of the average gross wage per employee, 2 times a year - in February and November. Such a proposal is contrary to the basic purpose of the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia. The basic and only fair purpose of coordination of transfers is to ensure the equal social position of beneficiaries to individual types of transfers in a uniform and transparent manner. The New Slovenia Group was co-signed by two amendments, which were unvoted against adopted at Monday's meeting of the mother's working body. The amendment was supported by the Government or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance, which also informed the members of the Committee of the financial effects. The amendment was introduced or amended to preserve the original solution of the existing law, namely to harmonise transfers with rising prices of living needs, but with a new change, this is coordination twice a year in July for the growth of living needs between January and June and January for the growth of living needs during the July-December period. However, with the proposed and adopted other amendments, we have achieved the enforcement of amendments to the law immediately. This means payment of coordinated transfers already in August this year. Let me remind you that in the original proposal, the law was not to enter into force until 2010. Such a change therefore means a uniform, better and more parallel valorisation in terms of coordination with current inflation, while at the same time following the law follows European practice in this area. Even when we have European wages in Slovenia, it will still be necessary to have a real social sense of the least social strata in our country. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that at a time of high inflation, which is actually facing all of Europe, this kind of coordination is the most equitable. At the same time, of course, we welcome the Ministry of Finance's willingness to allocate financial resources from the budget to coordinate transfers here, amounting to approximately €16 million per year. In New Slovenia, we are extremely sensitive to the socially weak layers, and we are confident that such coordination of transfers will enable citizens and citizens to overcome the high cost of living in order to better overcome the high growth of living needs. Therefore, it seems important and only logical that these transfers are also aligned with the rise in the prices of living needs. It also seems extremely important for us to respond to the situation as to the immediate needs of life. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we will be pleased to support the text of the law, as stipulated by the amendments adopted on the home working body, so that we can pay for 4.1% of the increased amounts of transfers to individuals and households in the month of August. We feel that it is extremely important that we follow the principle that those who are quick to do so should do so twice. Expecting that this law will be passed without a vote against, in Nova Slovenija we find that in this National Assembly, with this year's passed laws at the annual level, we have earmarked some 200 million euros for the socially weak. If it's big or small, it's a question. When it's enough, it's a question. In our view, it is not enough, so we will do something more for the socially weak. So I am predicting support for the law, but I am predicting non-support for the proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u25	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am opening the debate on Article 1 and the three amendments to this Article, taking into account the review of the amendments received on the bench. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Rezman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, it is quite clear that I will support the amendments that improve the social situation of those most affected. In doing so, I would like to point out that the Government agrees on the basis of our proposal, although the written statement states that it does not. But the government agrees to favour the EUR 25 million that it took from them in October 2006 by means of the law at that time. In the DeSUS Group, as proponents, we understand that the Government supports our proposal to say, "let's give to the exiles, let's give to the pensioners, let's give to those who are sick, let's give to those who are disabled, let's give to those who are unemployed, but let's give them less than DesSUS." And because the government is taking away what we are proposing, we are also proposing amendments to correct this bullying. We made two suggestions. You will see that we are also trying to find some compromise with the government, in a way that we would be willing to agree also to align transfers with rising costs, with inflation, of course, provided they are coordinated twice and accounted for. By calculating what was taken away from them, for example, from January to June, if inflation grew in between, and then on this basis contributions increased for this inflation growth continue to be paid. This will again mean a few more resources for those eligible for social transfers. And while we agree conditionally that we should please the Government, that this procedure, as they say, would be transparent to be transparent, I am sure that the Government will oppose it, because it will sit on a pile of money that means surplus in the 2008 budget. He just doesn't want to separate anything from it. But this has also been largely saved by those who have been deprived of this in October 2006 by the Act on the Coordination of Transfers. We have heard that in one of the parties they are extremely sensitive to proposals. But this sensitivity left them when this very party and their minister proposed a law that we constantly challenge. And this marriage is also challenged by the government. In the meantime, she amended a whole set of laws to correct her own mistakes in October 2006, and unfortunately was not the first. It always followed as a reflection on what others asked. Therefore, I hope that the Members and Members of the two groups that are most opposed to obtaining an adequate return on what has been taken, so I hope that Members and Members of the SDS and NSI will support our proposals and that they will not simply build on trying things, as has already been said, if we give them immediately, if possible before the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President, State Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleague! Hello to everyone at the gallery. I did not have any problems when on 22 May I also supported DeSUS's proposal on these things. I think we have a clear conscience, personally. This time I do not have any problems with the proposed material that is before us in the National Assembly, despite the perceptions that some have that it is not a good time to accept this kind of acceptance, that the time is before the elections and so on. In fact, there is never a time in the National Assembly to accept anything if something does not suit or does not suit him. I think what has already been said today in the very presentation of the views of individual parliamentary groups is, in fact, no opposition. We all kind of support this layer, the pensioners, the expulsions, the sick, the disabled, the socially endangered. There must be a lot of them in Slovenia. And believe me, I move around a lot, and believe me, every euro means a lot to them, because people do live modestly from month to month, to come along with those financial resources. There are many of these people, and above all this population that we are talking about right now. Here, regardless of the time before the elections or not, I would have the same position and always had the same position in this National Assembly that these people must be helped by society. However, I have always been against those people who help through the Employment Service who are able to work, and we do not accept our work, because for various reasons they run away from it and sometimes they are even better off being at the Employment Institute, getting all those social and other transfers, but being at home. And that's what I've always been against, and I'm against it today. This society has not yet made a move or has no real control over those people who are still fleeing from the work of their ability or obligation. But in these categories, I certainly think it is a perfectly clear position and mine is one that I will support. But it is true that inflation has done its job, definitely. Whether it is European or Slovenian. And here are certain things, probably after October 2006 they went down, but not as projected as possible, so high inflation in Slovenia will not be. It's the way we have it, and it probably won't be any better in the coming months. This trend will also continue with domestic ones, especially with external impacts clear from oil, food and similar things. Here, however, it is right that the National Assembly should support as unanimously as possible these changes and these positive effects that we have, regardless of the time of acceptance. Once again, I think that coordination twice a year makes sense, is positive and makes it possible for these target groups to be coordinated over the course of the year. Of course, the area is very sensitive and very complex, a lot of these transfers coming into this space that is being obtained through the state budget. I also understand the state budget, I also understand the Government, that it is difficult to meet this, but in the state budget, in this and the future, there are many, many things that may be less important or that can continue for some year to come, because, after all, these things are difficult to wait for another year or two or new governments, I hope that good will be found, that the Government will in principle support this issue, that it will go through, that it will be supported and that pensioners and all other categories will receive that minimum additional increase, which will be the result not only of the coalition, but of the National Assembly and Government. And to conclude this may be a good journey and a good gesture to people who think of this little man not only in words but also in actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I am pleased to see that every day, as close as the elections are to be held, I see how the social sense in this National Assembly is being strengthened, even among clients who have not had it until recently. I am thinking mainly of SDS and New Slovenia, which, as the largest coalition party themselves, could influence whether or not a decision is taken. It is right, however, when this increased social sense is emphasized, to say where the original sin is. And the original sin, at least as regards social transfers, and we are talking about it today, is the law that we adopted or adopted on 25 October 2006. At that time, the majority in the ruling largest parties to the coalition had a completely different attitude than you have today. At that time, you warned us that such coordination was unfair to many recipients of social transfers and warned us that it was not only the pensioners who had been expelled that many people with disabilities were affected, that people who received certain rights under so-called war laws and so on were affected, but you were deaf and did not want to hear it. Reverse. You convinced us that nothing would happen, even though 16 months later, many did not receive any harmonisation. Therefore, thank God that we will finally adopt this law today, even though we had the opportunity to change it twice after October 2006, the ruling coalition, the largest two ruling parties, rejected it again. We support the law and we also support the amendments tabled by DeSUS. This was the content of our amendments already on 25 October 2006, because we thought it wise to find a uniform system of coordination. We were aware that if we found a single system of coordination on the rights of pension and disability insurance, the care for this coordination was also the greatest for all others. Otherwise, we will always be a little less sensitive to some smaller groups, which will not seem important to us, as we were less sensitive to the two votes in the previous regular session to coordination or to the right to receive widow's pensions and widows after military insurance, and you will say that this is irrelevant because it is a hundred people. As an electoral vote, it may be irrelevant, but in terms of justice, at least as important and as important as the decisions we are going to make today. And let me say one more thing. We also support DeSUS's proposals for reasons, not only because they have been the same to us since October 2006, but because we believe that they will follow the needs of these groups as closely as possible. If we accept the proposals made by the Government, we will resolve something. Only the Government itself has said on its parent working body that the proposals made by the two largest coalition parties support because they need about half the resources it needs if coordination is carried out in accordance with the proposal in the basic text of the law and now in the amendment. To put it domestically, that means about twice as much government is ready to give. We want to make sure that the voting vote is given and bought, then let it be done justly, and that we do not find out every time that the coordination system has brought us new problems. I hope that this time the necessary majority will be gathered in the National Assembly, that not only the law, but also the law in the relevant content, including the amendments proposed by the DeSUS, will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Our Group of Members has, for example, received a statement from the SDS that our proposal is not appropriate. Of course, I must say that he is suitable for those outside who are concerned. Indeed, the proposal, as prepared by the New Slovenia and the SDS with the amendment and corrected our law for the worse, means - and no one has said this today - that in the coming years when inflation is supposed to fall, these social transfers will be reduced in real terms every year and there will be no coordination and no accounting. And that's the difference between what we're offering and what the committee did with the adoption of the amendment. We will support in the end, if necessary, this solution, which is a little better. But it is not true that our proposal was inadequate. It is inadequate for you, who have been grabbed by the social sense - a month before the elections should be made, in accordance with your amendment proposal. In December, we introduced a law to remedy the injustice committed by the adoption of a law on social transfers, but then there was no sense of social welfare. It was also not there in January when you broke our marriage, but it could also be remedied by an amendment you prepared afterwards. And then again on May 22nd, when the marriage fell. Once again, there was no sense of where it would have been because it might have been too early or it wouldn't have been there. What is important is what I said in January that your social sense is growing too disproportionately with daily lower public support before the elections and, of course, in line with the needs of the electoral campaign. We did not basically support this law in October 2006, and we had a social sense at the time. And now that we're wondering about the cost, I have to say that it's amazing that if SDS comes up with a cost, then there's no problem at the finance ministry. 40 million, 48 million for child supplements is not a problem; about that much for a protective supplement is not a problem. We supported all of this, of course, because it benefits these people. But when it comes to big numbers, to much larger numbers by the biggest customer, then there's no problem. At that time, public finances are not a matter of debate, but they are a matter of vote and execution. And also this social sense has gripped you, in my firm belief, by the order of the Prime Minister of the Government, who has been talking for four years, about prosperity, about the well-being of giving to half the poor, as we suggest. And that half is smaller, according to a statement made by a representative of the Finance Ministry, such as last year's budget savings. Last year 34,7, however, the cost of the budget would be some less than 30 million if the amendment was adopted, as proposed by the DeSUS Group of Members. And that's not because of the voters. The voters we fight for practically all the time don't support us. 220 thousand pensioners give us modest support, even though we have been defending their interests all the time, and we will be defending them in the future. Even because our programme is such that the acquired right cannot be taken. The same is true for the unemployed, the same is true for the patients we defend. But we do this anyway, because we think it is necessary to adopt such laws that are in the interest of citizens, including those citizens who do not support us and do not elect us. Such laws are true, not those that are drawn to one side or to the other or that are interesting just before the elections, but then four years after the elections, laws such as the Law on Social Transfers will be brought back. And that is why it is right to support our amendment, which speaks of the need to coordinate social transfers with the growth of pensions which are still lagging behind wages, because otherwise the material situation of recipients of social transfers will be worse than that of employees each year and it will be so bad that we will certainly not be able to resolve the issue of poverty with this law, as it is now proposed. But there's one more thing to say. Surely, in the long run, such social attitudes speak of us not coming anywhere. Re-interventions will need to be used to solve things, with the additions of Dražinj, etc. And it is not proud of our country or the declarations of prosperity within which the newly created value is divided primarily into the profits of capital owners and productive assets. And very very little is something medium layer, which is strong enough to print out, force and strike certain adjustments to its benefits, while everything else will remain down there, in an ever-increasing step and dividing people into rich and poor, which is not proud of the country and probably not our common goal and should not be the purpose. For this reason, I sincerely hope that at least the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support our amendment, as they have supported the law in its entirety in the May session, because in this way there would be hope that this amendment of the law would be corrected in the direction that we intended in the coming years, the recipients of social transfers would live a little easier, although not very rich or very "comet". It is not possible to overlook the fact that the adoption of this law has also deepened the social pressures of all those receiving these social transfers. And I reiterate that the savings of 34.7 million savings are also within this year, and this is the moment that it devotes the budget of 16 million to the correction of this law, which is more than half the savings that will in any event be saved at the expense of last year's freezing. What didn't go "up" last year is not in these benefits that will be rectified. It is said that something small is given back, and all the years until the death of all recipients are taken away from what was taken last year, even every year. The same is true in lagging behind salaries, which is lost this year, is lost until the recipient's death. And you need to be aware that the amendment tabled by the DeSUS Group is one that would alleviate the unfavourable situation and do not mean any major catastrophe, at least not in a financial sense, although this is attempted only because the proposal is the smallest coalition party, which is worth something when voting for the various collapses of its coalition partners, regardless of the cost, but when it proposes something good, then it is necessary three times at the bottom of a bag and break into tiny pieces and show how strong one is and how gracious the smallest party from the partners, as they would like to assert, does not deserve it. And that's the problem. All the years are the problem: what we have proposed is not being dealt with, what is not in the coalition contract is not applicable, what is to be ignored, who is stronger than and so on. You'll see it in the fall. I'm sure voters aren't stupid enough not to see what's going on. And they will be able to deal with all of us, all of us from the first to the last, according to their actions throughout the four years, not through that talk about prosperity just for some and not that talk about the great social sense that occurred one month and a half before the payoff or two months before the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. To begin with, I find it unfair and even unfair that, above all, the DeSUS Group and the National Party treat the behaviour of the Slovenian People's Party as something that has changed in its basic decision or has withdrawn or somehow changed its position since the last decision. That's not true. The Slovenian People's Party, at least I, personally as part of this party, have always supported the opposition's good proposals, never populism approaches, and always opposed the Government's bad proposals. Therefore, in order to illustrate to you that, in the previous term, when I led the Committee on Work, Family and Social Affairs, we have only accepted several amendments on our committee by one opposition candidate, for example, this time Minister Viszak, as we have succeeded in adopting all the amendments of the opposition from all sources, I am firmly convinced. Therefore, when it comes to assessing good for citizens and citizens, let us preserve the status of Members, as the Constitution offers us; I can also be wrong in my opinion, of course, absolutely realistic. Last time in our first reading, we supported the proposal proposed by the DeSUS Group. Why? Because we felt that the existing system was weak and needed to be made more fair in some elements, more correct with the individual sectoral issues that we are dealing with with with some law that proposed one or another transfer. We supported the law, despite the fact that, if corrected, the applicant knew that I had told him that I considered, at least personally, that the coordination of all transfers related solely to the harmonisation of wages or pensions, at least for me, in my knowledge, was incorrect. No European government can afford this, not ours. However, we will support the marriage as a suitable basis for the second reading and the amendments to the marriage. And we haven't changed our relationship in anything, at least I haven't. A single transfer financed by the state budget and the state budget is a credible right of expectations of all citizens and citizens, not of individual generations, not of individual groups. An individual transfer was made on a basic basis on the basis of a law that dealt with another specific issue. And the key question for me is whether this transfer has a causal or substantive connection to the coordination of salaries or pensions. Is its nature such that we as legislators must strive to ensure that the transfer is coordinated so that it does not lose real value? And that's the only question. Therefore, I argue that individual transfers simply cannot be linked simply to coordination with wage or pension growth in line with the State budget and to the capacity of the country. The point is that the Slovenian People's Party, at least I personally have not changed my attitude on this issue. I continue to argue that it would be very reasonable and systematic to require those transfers that depart from a system, such as the law of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, and are still an integral part of the system to coordinate not only the protective allowance and the basis for the assessment of additional rights, which I have already pointed out in 2005 that this will have cruel consequences for the recipients of the lowest pensions, and these are all practically those who have limited remuneration to the limits of the basis for the assessment of additional entitlements. In this sense, you must understand that I, I do not know how the Group of Members will act, I cannot support this amendment. But I like it very much, without the government moving fast, the government has moved late. And it does not give quickly, my dears, with such progressive inflation growth that we coordinate these transfers twice and coordinate them so much with real growth. It is a horror for me to think of the effort I have made to pay the minimum wage for which the Government and the National Assembly are responsible to set up a system of coordination to give those minimum wages, these are wages, to pay someone who has to live, to support the family, to fund them in order to finance these wages or to align themselves with the real rise in the price of living needs, and we have not been able to do so. With such economic growth, the Government should be proactive to relieve those industries for which we want them to maintain their activity, their industry, to maintain the employment structure, to additionally relieve the burden on the country, so that they can also align the minimum wage with the real increase in the price of living needs, not with the memoranda forecast, is incorrect, in this respect. Look, in this respect, I would like a transfer that is not related to the basic income of the recipient, he has a salary or he has a pension, just to this coordination. However, I am still prepared to coordinate the minimum wage practically at that level, which now represents EUR 423 per month of remuneration, and we will not grant him any pension or Draganj allowance, my dears. In this context, you need to understand me that I feel more responsible, more correct, more fair to the state budget, to all transfers, regardless of their nature, regardless of their nature, whatever their basic purpose, we are coordinating with wage growth. I am confident, as I am following the last course of the governors of the European Central Bank and the situation on the global food and energy market, that unfortunately the price of living needs will continue to rise for several years. However, I am afraid that wage restraint will also be strongly present with the help of the European Central Bank if we are to maintain the European economy competitively and if we are to virtually avoid burdening it with inflation. In that sense, I will not support the amendment. However, I would be pleased if some transfers were to return to the system from which it originated, specifically from the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, as well as one part of the transfer from the Health and Insurance Act. I was already saddened by the creation of a law on the coordination of social transfers. At that time, some of the views of young economists are called young ones, as they have not responded firmly to what they are supposed to do in the title of economic and social reform. They had a little bit of a feeling about the one who is unfortunately receiving the transfer, because otherwise it would be difficult to survive. And through this came the most faithful performer of this reform was the Minister in the department responsible for what we are dealing with today, mag. It's a trifle. That's why he paid his price. That's what I'd say. I will personally support this bill's complementary proposal, because I believe it is increasingly fairer than to throw all transfers into line with wages. However, I am sure that this issue will have to be addressed immediately in the beginning by the next government to give a nice thought, a nice study, a nice analysis of the situation. I hope this law is the last in this pre-election period. It would be inappropriate to use or use time for some of their own, including personal and other, views with content that are, in the long term, crucial for the main citizen and the citizens to whom the state budget as a whole is intended. And I ask you not to think that I have personally changed my attitude on this matter. I have made it clear to the first time that we will do everything we can to ensure that the law is adopted as a suitable basis and that it has been added to all arguments in the second reading. I'm afraid that didn't happen. Today, however, it is an opportunity at least to accept this content, which is too welcome for someone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Some people say "fine ears," as they call it in the coalition. See, with inflation growth, today, this month we record the biggest, the differences in the poor are particularly the greatest since the current law. And this law takes the rights already acquired, 50% less than they should have. If we are truly principled and truly fair and fair, then we cannot accept the law simply without the amendment tabled by DeSUS to Article 1. We didn't do anything if we didn't accept this amendment. Today, life is worse than before plebiscite, many estimate. And someone earlier said that someone called him on the phone -- I'm not going to use it -- I'm going to tell what simple people are saying, those who fought for today's independent Slovenia. Did we fight for it - this is this well-known password - that we will live worse today? Those who are now the national heroes of the Republic of Slovenia were in the bunkers at the time, "saking" Slovenia, and today they are enormously rich. And if the government is really into poverty, for 250,000 poor, then this law will put it into procedure and accept it as proposed by the coalition party. How can we believe in the Government that it is right, that it is fair, that it is social, that it is understandable to the poor, to the lowest layer, but that they do not respect their own partners in the government. I will not defend anyone here today, nor will I defend DeSUS. However, as scrupulous as this entangled law, without proper amendments, is better than nothing, but shame for those who have made a fine picture of Slovenia by forcible denial. I pointed out earlier that Slovenia is building success on the poor. Whom we fear in this context of the law. Maybe the consequences of the 16 million? But we do have a budget surplus, ladies and gentlemen. Slovenia has a budget surplus. That's what we're bragging about. But 16 million won't be such a problem to fill, as someone said, a refrigerator for those who have an empty one! If this is about a serious purpose of honesty, justice, then respected coalition partners, confirm what your colleagues have proposed. I cannot agree that some have not changed their minds. So. Salta Mortals were made, a hundred percent different opinion. And as a result, we are likely to foster today’s view that the poor will continue to be poorer. As has already been said, as inflation rises, the differences are particularly increasing in the case of the poor. And if that's what you want, then support the government's law, the government's proposal, without proper amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Rezman, as your candidate, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Just so there's no misunderstandings. In the DeSUS Group, we never thought that the People's Party would hurt our lives the most in the law on the coordination of transfers. For the first time, when we first introduced the law, they had some concerns that we were trying to take into account, but they didn't say an apodictic "no". When we tabled our second proposal, they even supported us, and we were grateful for it. Even then, they had some concerns. And when we tabled our proposal for the third time together with other Members and Members of Parliament, we also tried to take their concerns into account. We are also now prepared to take their concerns into account, with our other amendment, which speaks of being coordinated, if not otherwise, by increasing the cost of living, but by calculating the cost of living back, by calculating what has been lost. And here I think there's a chance that we can meet again, and I think there's a chance that we can all do as much as we can for all those who have been deprived of their rights under the 2006 law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u39	Thank you. Is there still interest after the debate? I reopen applications for debate on Article 1 and the three amendments to this Article. Mr. Brenčič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Certainly DeSUS would immediately support, but I find it difficult to support something that sounds very nice and timely, pleasant for the ears of many who will trust us and give us or not their voice. But this is where the government's representative, what it represents, the order of size, for the state budget, has to come to the fore. Talking about something like this, about some surplus in this country, is a perfect utopia. However, we know so much realistically what was the order of the size of the loss of funds or savings through unpaid coordination, because it was not, from the date of the adoption of the law until now, when we are changing the alignment with the rise in prices of living needs, but in a more equitable way. And without the government's response here, it's impossible to discuss seriously, at least for those of us who simply don't want to perform a populist performance. However, I am interested in how a transfer, such as an annual allowance to pensioners, will be coordinated. This is paid once a year at the expense of May’s pension. How will it be coordinated? This is one of the rare transfers that is once a year. Whether it will also be coordinated now, July coordination, whether it will be in return that it was meant to be a deposit, whether the deposit will continue with coordination, July-January, and will be harmonised in May and then budget will be given. In every way you have to give an answer here by the government, including how the institution should act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I fully agree with Mr Brenčič when he said that it would suggest pension rights to get back to former coordination. The same applies to rights under the Health Insurance Act. I mean sick people. The same applies to rights under the Unemployment Insurance Act, etc. And this is what we have also proposed as a compromise proposal that what is paid by law be done to ensure that that right remains in coordination, as it was before, or by the growth of its own benefits, of which contributions are paid. And there was no hearing. In other words, the contribution rates for all these laws remain the same and the rights have been reduced without the consent of the Assembly of Pensions and Disability Insurance, without the consent of the Assembly of Health Insurance of Slovenia. And this is the place of rights by the government and the government coalition that adopted this law at the time. 27 000 200 pensioners lost more than 130 euros a year. Lost! And now they're going to get half that back with a one-time addition, and some of that, too. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The largest ruling party offers us the recipe "Slovenia on the Right Path". That Slovenia does not follow the right path is also evidence of the debate we are having today. In fact, we are correcting what a large part of the ruling coalition did not want to listen to the warnings of the social partners, he did not want to listen to the opposition Members when we warned in autumn 2006 that, as soon as we reach out so radically to coordinate the coordination of transfers, we need a comprehensive analysis of what the consequences will be. No one in the government then listened to it. Moreover, we have witnessed a very underestimating relationship between representatives of the government, with the President of the Government at the head, who had comments when the concerns of the unions were justified, that the development of Slovenia at some points was not going in the right direction to be good if they were warm or doing anything else. We have seen an underestimating relationship that because of rising inflation and rising costs, this has become a burden for some to reduce purchasing power, to eat either old bread or to watch bread in Slovenia if possible. So it's a very under-appreciating attitude to these issues. Rejecting initiatives to correct something, given that thousands and thousands of people live worse than was introduced before this change, thus changing the coordination of transfers. At that time, we warned that we would have a very strong impact on the quality of life of individuals and that we had not yet had this second effect before us, these other consequences, which the Government had also not responded properly to: this inflation. By amending this law's complementary proposal, in fact, we are only responding to inflation, but we are not addressing the content in those parts when we are talking about how individual transfers are coordinated. It is therefore appropriate to listen to the individual amendments of the DeSUS Group, which try to listen to the two-time coordination when it comes to inflation, and then to listen to what was meant by the individual transfer, which then unitedly, without knowing the backgrounds, so placed on the basis of the same coordination. And that's the problem. It is interesting that the majority of the ruling coalition did not allow this debate on initiatives in 2007 to open up this content, rather alone without a systematic approach, because the Government has the tools to systematically address such policies, that is, without supporting such a systematic approach, it has itself come up with corrections in specific areas that have improved in particular segments, but not entirely. And we, who are on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, can witness, for example, how government representatives reject very meaningful and correct proposals coming from the opposition to avoid certain irregularities, certain mistakes and certain improvements for individual groups of people. Whether we will be on this path, that is, Slovenia on the right track, can today bear witness to the understanding of the ruling coalition to listen to the same part of the ruling coalition, which does not listen to the real fall of purchasing power, that many people are already living significantly worse than they have lived to try to complement the content that needs to be complemented by amendments. We're witnesses. I call it Christmas in the middle of summer vacations. They're also called pre-election candy. Whether we continue with such a non-systematic approach or support a systematic approach to solving this problem as this law does. Of course, the candy isn't over yet. In a very short period of time, we will be dealing with the emergency procedure; today, the Health and Health Insurance Act has been allocated, where we will release payments of supplementary voluntary health insurance for the following year. So many and so many people who already live in social distress. Why were we not prepared to do so in a way that was right, even though the government’s commitment to do so was essential earlier? It is not right, it is wrong and it is not right to deal with such important issues for individuals who, of course, have a very important impact on the entire social climate. And I don't think these are the real messages that Slovenia is following the right path. At the same time, let's say you reject those opposition proposals very quickly, where additional funds would target the basic development component, that is, education, science, that is, the basis for development. At that time, the opposition's proposals do not fall to fertile ground, while it is necessary, for example, to regulate the very important area of social policy in the Republic of Slovenia. Unfortunately, we are witnessing a breakdown of this policy that is not consistent. And, of course, it is also necessary to understand the proposal of individual parliamentary groups that there are substantial difficulties in formulating consistent proposals if, of course, the Government is not involved in this work. That is why I will support the law, which brings improvement, but of course I will also support those amendments that are still upgrading this law, and I think it would be appropriate for this understanding to be able in as large a number as possible and to improve the situation that exists in the field of social transfers today in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u46	I hope that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is still in force. Students in law school need to know what they are saying in articles 1 and 2 of the Constitution. Article 2 of the Constitution states that Slovenia is a legal and social state. That's the point. It's not about elections, it's about pre-election likeness, and it can't go. It is to comply with the laws of Article 2 of the Constitution, and it is to fulfill it as best as possible. We are not here to technically solve questions, where it belongs, how it should be done. No, no, no. That is why we are here to find that inflation in the State Republic of Slovenia has been so long and so far at such a rate. We have found that such a rate threatens a large part of the population. And we are in favour of fulfilling Article 2 of the Constitution and the dot through the laws. And that's the whole story that can take place in this National Assembly. We chaired the European Union. As far as I am aware, it has already been stressed in our Presidency principle, and in particular in France, that Europe must take immediate action to reduce unemployment and raise the social situation of citizens and citizens of the European Union. But all of this, with all this support, I am the most, man no longer finds the expression, hurt when everyone in this room on Friday at the last two points, all in a row, in ten minutes allowed the adoption of novels of two laws, where we gave public agencies for the market in financial instruments and insurance because they complained because neighbouring supervisors in the bank have bigger and better wages than they do, all of us, except me, the only one, to give Bianca the paper to decide on their own personnel, and that they will share the money themselves. They will share the money themselves by violating the pay-sharing system and violating it because they are in the system of salaries of public servants. But the National Assembly, on Friday, you calmly accepted this for ten minutes because it was Friday, and we're going home. There was no debate for five minutes about some sharing their own money on their own, because the bank supervisor has a better salary than the insurance supervisor has. Here, for five hours, we are talking about 16 million euros in pricks, these are just four referendums where only 40% of Slovenians would come. Only four. And we're talking for five hours. But we're not ashamed! And there we gave the two agencies money just like that. There is a law that seeks to achieve as best as possible Article 2 of the Constitution. And our task is to assess whether this law we are talking about together with the amendments we are talking about is better or worse than what we are proposing. And everyone has the right to say, "He's better." It is better because inflation is so high that twice a year the settlement is much better known, people survive easier than once. This is a purely basic logic that must be understood by all people, not that we are all so clever in the National Assembly and explain what kind of transfers and laws. That's what this is about. And we have already heard today that there will be no such inflation when there is no need for transfers, and then there will be no settlement at all. But it's about fulfilling Article 2 of the Constitution to help people. We have to help them because the current economic situation is critical to these structures of people. And in my opinion, the amendment to Article 1 is good, because it will be easier to help people, and in general, because it also accurately defines elements or content, let's say if we look at the children's allowance, which is most needed and also the largest. Why not at this point? It's good for me, so I'll back it up. Because I am aware that if there is no such inflation, if there is no such expensiveness and if there is no danger of social problems, then there will be no such content and we will not talk about it at all. And please, colleagues and colleagues, let's be equal to everyone. Same to everyone. On the one hand, we leave everything behind. We have warned that in the content I spoke about earlier, the law must be adapted to the system law. No, no, no. Hearsay, you didn't care. We're working the opposite today. We want everything that's changing now to be pushed back into a system law. We're not honest with other people. Let's be equal to everyone. I'll support this amendment. Once again, because I feel that such content is necessary at this time. And such content will take as long as the price of petroleum derivatives, which are the main, among other things, instigator of inflation, does not subside. And if inflation is 7%, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of today's entry into the EU, because all monetary policy is also known, this is much worse than compared to 15 or 17 years ago when we talked about a few hundred percent inflation, much worse. And that's how we're gonna help. I will gladly support this amendment and therefore realize that it will help if it is also accepted in the next steps, and perhaps also an element for which we will see to it that inflation is reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Rugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Well, it's obvious today that the elections are really getting closer. The leader of the Social Democrats Group himself thanked God earlier. Apparently, they're looking for support for the elections there as well. As far as the amendment and this marriage are concerned, I'd say the following. See, Article 2 of the bill states: "This law shall enter into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal and shall apply from 1. 1. 2010." We have been listening here all the time to the evidence of how late we are, how we are doing something before the elections, but the proposaler himself has given - and this is the proposal that the opposition also supports - the proposal to start applying this law with 1. 1. 2010 It's 2008, and I don't know, I don't understand what that means. And, of course, look at what's better and better than these amendments that our coalition has given us, just to keep this in line twice a year with the increase in living costs. Look, when we talked about original sin, I think the original sin would be if we were to step up social transfers over inflation growth. Yeah, where else did you see that? In fourteen days, you'd be pointing back at us, yeah, you've got high inflation, what you've been doing all along. But you're essentially proposing things that are supposed to go faster than inflation. Yeah, you know that's not working. I myself obtained data on inflation, which was between January and June 4.1%, for wages until June, but by April, from last April to this year, it was 8.1 and if we put it in half, it is also about 4. There's no difference in 0.1%. And that's just where you're complicated. Not to mention those things, what that would mean. For all these old people, the poor, you yourself have proposed that this should not be implemented until 2010. Yeah, now I don't know, anyone here can look, but that's what it says. I don't know if I see it right and I hear it right. Not to mention that thank God. I don't know anymore. For me, of course, this solution is optimal, and it cannot be better - with the increase in living costs. All social transfers in our country are practically linked to this and we cannot design this system differently at this time. And also, as has already been said, this is the case everywhere in Europe. Yeah, well, where do they work faster than inflation? You know that's gonna trigger a whole new inflationary cycle. And we just can't afford that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Rezman, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Since Mr Rugelj slept through the debate, I must remind him that it has already been said that the amendment to pay off immediately was proposed by DeSUS. That the same amendment was proposed by half of the other coalition parties, we went to your service or to your benefit so that we could boast, withdraw and accept your amendment, which speaks the same way as we proposed. And secondly, NSIs and SDS are only half the coalition, so don't talk about what the coalition accepted, because the other half refused to sign what NSI and SDS proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u51	Thank you. Do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u52	Well, look, as far as the coalition is concerned, I may apologize a little bit, but half the coalition, if we count the number of Members, is of course something else. But many times it is true that you abuse this half for something else. But once again, it says here exactly, "This law enters into force immediately after its publication, it begins to apply from 1.1.2010." Look, of course, I wonder why, too. In what, on the one hand, you tell us here, we are now late, we are before the elections, on the other hand, we have done what is good and what is real and all these people will actually get real value that will revalue. And if there's something wrong here, I can't agree to any other thing here, and it seems to me that these amendments were the only right thing to do, and I haven't slept through anything. I just said what I think needs to be highlighted in here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u53	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government. I must say that at this time, there has been so much as a kind of entertaining statement, but I have to react. First of all, I do not know if I can understand anything, but in the amended proposal for a law adopted by the Committee on Social Labour and so on, it is written in Article 2 and this law has, as I know, only two articles: "This law shall enter into force the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia", pika. It doesn't say anything anymore. Maybe something happened in the middle. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] What I don't know. [[...]] But it's just passing through, even for the public. As far as I know, some people are watching this on television, but they know that some Members of this National Assembly are not monitoring what is going on. Then I would also say that I could otherwise agree with the wishes of one of my colleagues who said he hoped that this would be the last law before the elections, which shares candy. First, this law has not been tabled before the elections, but again, it has been tabled for the third time far, as a third time on the basis of a law adopted in 2006, where the parliamentary group of this Member is, but I am talking about a human party, five Members voted from the five Members present to coordinate social transfers once a year. So I would ask that we be a little more precise and consistent when we advocate our unchangeable attitudes and unchangeable habits toward those in need. And once again I would like to repeat what our group leader, Comrade Potrč, has already said when it comes to 250,000 people, some people in this round room develop and become social. When it comes to 100 people, the heart becomes cruel, it shuts itself down, and hundreds of people are not worth the effort. And I will also say that, given that the first law to introduce readjustment or coordination of transfers to individuals and households twice a year has been tabled twice a year, it is fair that we now adopt an amendment, which stipulates that this harmonisation is now done in reverse, no matter how much it costs. When the Government attached itself to the Secondary School Food Act, it did not wonder how much this would cost when the Government attached itself to or introduced a series of laws that essentially burden the budget, nor did it wonder how the budget would be affected by this and what would happen in the coming years. Now it may be the government's fingernails, but if it hasn't reacted correctly to those people to make their basic living, that is, for the basic needs of life, the income given to coordinate as inflation dictates. For such inflation, one year of coordination is unfair and unfair. We can't say it's electoral candy, but it's about correcting the mistakes that that same government made almost two years ago. It is therefore necessary to support this amendment by 1st, and above all it is very important that the law enters into force without delay the next day following its publication and that this is not necessary for this amendment, but that it has already been the committee that approved such an amendment to Article 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Rezman, I can now as a motioner. Did you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u56	Well, we've already explained that. On the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Mr Žnidaršič explained why we had to take such a path, because otherwise our friends from the two coalition parties would not let us into the procedure at all and we could not just send the amendment forward of the law but no, first we had to send the law and then we had to prepare an amendment so that we could change the law, but they were not smart enough to "consume it".
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u58	Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues have a nice greeting! We all know that Chinese river that says, "Give no fish to the hungry man, but teach him how to fish." And all of these discussions, which are now happening here from the Draganj allowance onward, mainly indicate that the government is not following the right path, but is walking on a path that threatens Slovenia with disaster if this path continues. I'm just going to say, as a passage, that I don't understand the Government, which is opposed here to all four of them, to invest in basic development programmes in higher education, even though all Members of Parliament have supported such laws in all their references so far, and we have been the only country in the world that has actually realized that there is a fundamental society in knowledge; the New Slovenia and the SDS have opposed it with all four of them; you, colleague Brenčič, your party, all of its honour, have continued this tradition and you believe that it is necessary to invest in young people, that we should invest in knowledge that we will gain more and that we will move forward. This is one great blemish of this Parliament and of this mandate that we have. On the other hand, I understand the government very well that she was not able to do the right thing. The government has accepted the European currency, or we in the National Assembly, it has proposed to us. We have received European prices with the European currency. And any smart politician would think that if he wanted to have peace in his country, he should also have European wages, European pensions and European social transfers. But, dear fellows, that was not the case. We didn't go that way. Look at our salaries, the plumber with us, say, 500 euros, in Austria 1,400 euros, a nurse with us 800 euros, in Austria 1,800 euros, not to mention Italy. Pensions better not be compared. And that all led to the bottom of the barrel by starting people who worked in production with sentences. There has been a lot of professional requirements, one that still lasts. In the rest of the segment, the government tried to grip this wave slightly, but it had to meet the requirements of strike, which led to a rise in wages. Now that wages have risen, it may also have a share of inflation, but at the same time social transfers and pensions have had to rise and this is where the second round of discontent started with the work of this government and the government was ahead of the big challenge. The fact that we've achieved 7% inflation already, my respectable colleague and colleague, is a horror. Because who knows little about mathematics and is known not in differential accounts, but in differential accounts and on equations of second order differential. If this goes any further, it will start to grind, as we have been used to in Tito's Yugoslavia, and it will not stop so quickly and soon. And this cycle between inflation and wage growth and the growth of pensions and the growth of everything else will make this society extremely unstable. And if I was the head of the government, I'd never do that in a way that would give a Dragan supplement to one of them, I'd give it a little bit of a break in social transfers. And this basket of candy, you know, before the elections, even though it looks like a basket of candy, long-term effects won't be positive, not yet full. If you remember, we have a law waiting for us in this basket of health care and health insurance, where for supplementary health insurance, a whole lot of people will be forgiven. Why will she be forgiven? Because he lives on the threshold of poverty. If this is the right way, if you'll excuse the way Slovenia is going, I don't think it is. The government should, with its instruments, regulate such a policy to achieve some stability on this segment, especially then on the developmental cycle, but if you look at what we have already adopted here, it will slowly start to fall apart. And because of that, you know, I'm very, very concerned about this kind of treatment, where we're dealing with just one little bit and it seems to me to solve this problem in the way we have it now, like we have 8 barrels, and all of our wines are full, and we have 7 pints and then we try to keep the same amount of wine in all the courts. A madman of the year from barrel to barrel, and in the end, he's got everything empty, and the smart one lets one run out. So one thought must be where this policy goes. It seems to me, colleagues from DeSUS, but I think that this party that is performing here, like the parliamentarians from Germany, and we said that we have a client of pensioners, they said, "It is impossible for us to have this client of pensioners and the client of teachers who gave themselves to them and the client of doctors and others," it is said that we have a trade union interest here. Nevertheless, whatever you do, I must admit to you that you care for the pensioners and that you are sensitive to this issue and that what you have brought with this law is not the first time that you have probably reached one threshold, some success, so I support it. And it also seems to me that if we are as rich as anyone mentioned that we can give 37 million a year for lunch, but not as smart as a country, and as smart statesmen do, we will be able to finance lunch for those who need it, for 37 million lunches, even if I abuse what you've suggested, even though I don't know what it is, but also for the Taiwanese children, if I can misinterpret myself. We're gonna pay everybody a lot of money on average. But for those who are from month to month, and here you can trust me on these social transfers, even the disabled and others to whom society could be particularly careful to overlook you now and not give them what they're up to, but I think they're almost there. I think that this amendment is to some extent a solution to the situation by drawing a little more funds behind it. I will also support this amendment, but whatever solution we take here, this solution will not affect our economic or social situation in the long term. This solution is part of it. I think it will have to be this way in the future, and I very much want such Members to come to Parliament who will have their backs, like colleague Brenčič, who will be able to see what is good for this country and for these people, who will not only be a party voting machine and such Members, who will also be able to look systematically at what is good for this country. And now, with these little marriages or some of you call electoral candy, let's just ease here some kind of defect that arises. Systemic solutions, if anyone here sees how we're going to reduce inflation and everyone else, and no one can say that, and that's why it would be good, and now we've got this, man would say, our mass is going to end, another session, and we'll end it. I would really like these things to be treated in a slightly different way, to take them and what some are now trying or trying to do - to mitigate the consequences that arise, because of the government's reckless economic actions, so that such a thing would be a little different in the future or that such things would not be at all. I wish we had such a government that will bring this inflation to the level of at least one of Europe's averages. We are now in the 15th century of the EU, right at the top of the summit, where we cannot even boast about getting there and at the same time get ourselves to have such an economy so that we can live decently from our work. And so now it happens that with the pensions that are now, two still hold together, two more. As soon as one dies, the other has to watch it or the children will maintain it or sell it if he has anything, or else the poor person who needs to be helped by the congregation remains. And this is not the Slovenia that some of us have fought for in all these periods, and it would be wise, respected colleagues and colleagues to take to heart and to start not by accusing each other, but to try to find a solution with common powers that would lead this country into a slightly better time than they have in recent times. It is true, however, that it also contributes little time before the elections, passions are more heated and in this way we account for free, even here in Parliament. But for the people who elected us to represent us here, such long-term solutions will not bring anything positive. I expect from the new Members and from the new government that it will take more root in the way that we can also be able in Slovenia in this segment, if we have been successful in all of them, also in the economic segment and in the standard that people living immediately beyond our borders will have to reach that level, and then Parliament will have half the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u59	Thank you. Is there still interest after the debate? I am opening an application for a debate on Article 1 and the amendments to this Article. Mr. Slavinac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. I will support the amendment myself, because this legislation reminds me of the familiarity that we can sometimes hear, suitcases naked, suitcases down. A long time ago, a law was passed which, as discussed today, delayed this coordination for one year and also reduced it differently. Now I want to fix that mistake from the beginning. There's been a lot of talk about not being a pre-election law, a pre-election candy, but that's exactly what it's hard for people to think about when they see that there's a thing that's been done differently before that that's been done wrong. Before that, something was taken from people, the worst, the most socially weak. And now we're fighting, and one part of the government coalition even predicts that it won't back this up to make things right. On the other hand, if inflation is not as high as it is, it would not be a problem how often social transfers are coordinated. If inflation were not available, this coordination would not be necessary, and it would be entirely irrelevant how often transfers are coordinated. But we have heard that as long as transfers are coordinated too often, then this will increase inflation even more, the inflation cycle will start even more. This is, of course, pure demagogy, this is not true. Inflation will not drive and increase social transfers, nor will it increase and drive transfers to those most in need and who really matter to them. Inflation, as great as it is, has been caused by the policy of this government, among other things - I will point out only one issue - also a law that has experienced a similar judgment as this one. Bags up, suitcases down. And first of all, you've allowed some people to buy businesses with loans, so no money, with the loans they took from this company. Three years ago, it was this marriage. And now that these loans have also had a huge impact on this inflation, when people without money became owners of companies that are paying themselves back, you have now fixed this law back a while ago. And look, that, those loans, that's one of the main drivers of inflation, that's why we're now talking about how often these transfers need to be coordinated to guarantee that social minimum. But the damage is done, even though now that your people have become owners and you no longer control them, you have lost them. The damage was done. And the same damage has already been done in these social transfers. And whatever we do now, we just put out one fire again and fix something back. That is why I would like this fire to be put out as successfully as possible and so that this damage will be minimised and that is why I will support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u61	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. So many things have been said that there is only something that needs to be answered or explained. Mr Žnidaršič is a little older than me, so he will probably remember well who he was who took something from the pensioners, but not that he now accuses us. The law on pension and disability insurance was passed at the end of 1999, and you really did not share the pre-election vouchers because you changed the law two months after the elections and took one pension. And it's true that pensions don't go up the same way as wages, and they'll always be behind wages. So we must all probably work together and do something to make the wages bigger, not accuse us of just taking and giving nothing. At that time, a bill or novel was adopted, which has made the situation of pensioners significantly worse, and as far as I know, the colleagues who are telling us today that we are being attacked by a social sense, all voted in favour of such a change and thus took one pension each year. And that's probably why DeSUS doesn't like you 520,000 pensioners. In this government, which he likes so much, you do not speak very well of it, but we have fulfilled the commitment we made in 2005 and have changed this and reintroduced the reconciliation of pensions according to the growth of the average wage per employee. But, as we say, wages are still lagging behind, but they are significantly less lagging behind than they would otherwise be. And colleague Rezman says that they have therefore given the law to enter into force or to apply in 2010, because their coalition friends would not allow it to be otherwise, it is not a problem in friends such or different, but there is a problem in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which does not allow them, if there is no financial means in the budget provided, the law cannot be adopted. But this is what one friend of yours wrote - the Rules of Procedure that we have today. My colleague Moze said that with the European currency, we also received European prices, not European wages. That is true, but not only did we get European prices with the European currency, but we also got them with monopolies and merchants and the modern-day rich who were allowed by each other's governments, not us. In the years 1995 to 2005, the country sold 2447 shares in individual companies [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I know, it's the next point, yeah, they just accused us of being us, kids of tycoons, that they're gonna eat lunch after [[...]] [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u63	Only Mrs. Jeraj has the floor, Mrs. Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u64	If you've all been talking about everything, well. Can I finish? I'll go back to the amendment, don't worry. And at that time, in a very long time, in two mandates, Mr Squikel chaired Kadu and the Court, when these shares were being sold, and in the absence of him, Mr Rop. By accusing us of being responsible for us and selling out so many shares and creating so many rich people, it's probably a little too bad. I've said before that we all have to do more together to make the salaries bigger, because if the salaries are higher, the pensions will be higher. And we still think that the Social Transfers Act, which we adopted and which came into force last year, was good, and that is why we are not proposing anything but that transfers should be coordinated twice a year, but we have determined with that law that they should be done once a year. However, we still do not support aligning ourselves with wages, but with the growth of living needs or prices. Therefore, the amendment proposed by DeSUS will not be supported because we believe that, with the amendments adopted on the Committee, things have been adequately remedied to coordinate transfers twice a year, with the first harmonisation already in August of this year, taking into account all that you are talking about, that is, inflation in the first half of this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u65	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. The Act of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households is phenomenal. Therefore, in 2007 16,000 pensioners with minimum pensions lost the right to a protective allowance. Therefore, family helpers do not have the right to valorize their minimum wage benefits. This is why, finally, many recipients, many of whom, in fact, have lost the right to valorise their earnings, have been coordinated in 2007. All transfers were frozen in 2007. In that year, when our country faced 6.4% inflation, food was irritable by 20%. The government law on coordination of transfers is really good. It was therefore necessary to adopt a social first aid package in January 2008 to mitigate or remedy the consequences of this government law, a good government law. It was therefore necessary to adopt a law on the food additive. This law must therefore be adopted today to mitigate the negative consequences of a good government law on the coordination of transfers between individuals and households. Come on, ladies and gentlemen! Do you really think people still fall for you? Do you really think? I meet people on the phone on my own every day, on the road, saying that what this government has done is a disaster. As a result, a single system of coordination of transfers has led people to have €16 in cash social assistance because they live in a marriage relationship, in the same household with a person receiving €330 in pensions, because they have a total of €350 in income, and this is enough for social security to survive. That's not true, dear colleagues! Government measures in the field of social protection policy are poor measures. In the absence of a serious strategy, what happens in one, two, three, four, five, ten years? Some of you simply do not want to understand this wise book, which is called the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Why is it stated in the basic proposal that the law only enters into force with the year or only applies with the year 2010? Because he's the president of the National Assembly and his deputy secretary-general because they actually allowed themselves to bend the rules of the game. This is not recorded in the Rules of Procedure, but if the opposition opposition group submits a proposal for a law, the leadership of the National Assembly simply rejects it because the budget for the coming period is already adopted and the Member cannot provide financial resources in the budget. This exclusive competence is vested only in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is deaf for 4 years, with all the warnings, with all the opposition's proposals and the only possibility, the only possibility for the opposition MP to submit a proposal for a law is to postpone his deadline to that year for which the budget has not yet been adopted and then later, with the amendments, he tries to correct and correct it. Also, these rules of the game have been succeeded by this government coalition, I'll say, adopt and renegotiate. This happened today at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. Yesterday, the government sent a request to insist on the adoption of laws in accordance with the urgent procedure proposed by the Government just before today, within one week. Five laws, however, were put to the vote by the President of the National Assembly, the President of the former autonomous branch of government, before the 1st item of the agenda. The government coalition, with a large majority, of course supported the government's proposals, but it did not support the proposals of opposition Members, which we also had very legitimate proposals for laws, and we could not get them through the procedure. No - they were rejected. Even the representative of the SLS Group, let me apologize, indeed respect his work, because I know that the only one who advocates and hopes to stand upright in his positions in this parliamentary group; even the representative, the head of the SLS Group, voted against the opposition's proposals, against the fact that the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance is dealt with following a reduced procedure, against the fact that the Novevela Law on Social Protection is being dealt with following a reduced procedure. Both marriages are written according to the wishes and needs of the people. Even supported by 7,000 signatures of citizens and citizens to petition. Then something else needs to be done in the field of disability care than this government has done. His words, I apologize, but I must say, Comrade Presecnik, his words kept up for about 50 seconds, until the moment the president of the largest SDS party said, "No!" We will not support these proposals. That's how much is the word in this House. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the amendments proposed for the basic bill are well-intentioned. Well-intentioned, and I'll say they take into account the situation, the state, the needs, the desires of the people. Not take all people who are unemployed as lazy. Please. Among the unemployed, there are many people who, because of their illness, cannot do active work, cannot compete on the labour market. The unemployed also include people who are partially disabled. There are also persons who are missing until the full pension age, until retirement, I don't know, two, three years. And they are simply not interesting for capital owners to hire them into a working relationship. These are hard-working categories of people who try, but simply cannot get to work. But this system of social security in our country has, unfortunately, changed their lives or their social security to social danger. Since incomes, including social transfers, are so low, because the system has changed and it is not true that social transfers are still on the table. It is not true that pensions amount to EUR 1500, as stated by Prime Minister Janez Janša months ago. It is not true that a person who is unemployed to receive €200 of monetary social assistance can receive up to € 1500 of monthly income with some other social adjustments. That's not true. We are discussing specific cases. Specific example: spouse, elderly person receives compensation from disability insurance EUR 330 per month. His wife, due to unemployment as the only aid from the State, receives a financial social assistance of €16. Due to such very low prices, respected colleagues and colleagues, together you have 350 euros in income, they are in a rented municipality apartment. Can two survive with 350 euros? My colleague Janc said earlier, yes, every euro is important to these people, but then let's give them what the state can give them, what the state owes them. I'm really scared, and I'm going to end up for as many seconds as I have left, that if under a red star once the country was too good a mother, today, under a government cross, this country has become a very bad stepmother.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. Were you appointed? Here you go, Mr. Janc, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to replicate to my colleague Žgajner Tavš in the part where she talked about the unemployed. I said that part of the unemployed people in Slovenia who are healthy and decent to work are looking for work in such a way that, unfortunately, they can't find it because there is no work suitable for them and they prefer some still in the institution and benefit from certain, such and different transfers that the company pays, in my opinion, unjustifiable. Older, sick, and disabled people must receive adequate financial support from society to live normally. This has always been my position, from the first day in the National Assembly until today when this mandate ends. And I agree, every euro is very important for the elderly, the disabled and the ones you mentioned, here I fully agree with you. But I've been talking about that population of people who are normal, healthy, capable of work, and they've been looking for work for so long that they can't find it. And I find it unjustifiable that society helps them with these and other transfers, have free kindergartens and so on. But this is a story that is not finished and will not be completed in this term, and probably not in the future. However, I hope that one day the same denominator will get all those recipients of transfers, that the country will have a one-stop-shop review of how much money it gives to the person or family concerned per month, and that this will also be under good control. I'm afraid that's not happening today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u69	Thank you. Mrs. Tomc, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. On the part of the Government, I would like to add something to this debate. In fact, I feel that the proposal for a law with amendments that have been adopted on the parental committee, which the Government has made clear that it supports, would be something bad and something like that, because we are taking something from someone, which is, of course, far from the truth and just the opposite. This leads to a positive step and a shift towards better recipients of transfers and greater benefits. However, I would like to start with some specific financial information. The effects of the law on the coordination of transfers, such as these, and the losses or positive surplus for the state budget have been mentioned several times. €34.7 million was this financial result. First of all, let me mention that this year we have adopted a proposal for amendments to the Income Act, by which we have unloaded the lowest layers, a general relief has been increased. The security allowance, which was adopted at the beginning of the year, has had positive consequences for pensioners, more than €5 million in positive impact for pensioners. In addition, the Single Pensions Supplement Act, recently adopted, is 25 million. Let's not talk about child support. Even this year, 30 million and kindergartens, nutrition, which has already been mentioned. However, with regard to possible reception or, if this is accepted, what the parent committee proposes and the Government supports, this means that the unemployed will receive this account, and the cumulative effects of the increase this year will be next and one million more. That, in addition to the increase in child allowances by 12% this year, family benefits will be higher than new, almost 10 million euros. That transfers to ensure social security, for example, where it belongs as the main, largest - monetary social assistance, will be greater by almost €2 million. In addition, transfers to war invalids, veterans, victims of war violence, etc., for a million EUR 370,000. The scholarships, in addition to increasing the reinforcement of this scholarship policy, have a number of applications for human resources scholarships, the state will co-finance part of the human resources grant to the company that will apply for the tender, half of which. The scholarships will only be higher because of this change or because of this proposal for a million EUR 700. There will also be large effects on the pension fund, almost 5 million, 4 million 800 total. Of this, the biggest aid and service allowance is a million EUR 100, etc. With regard to the proposed amendments, which are here before us, I would like to comment on the following. Article 1 proposes an amendment to paragraph 1 in order to coordinate these transfers in the manner in force in Articles 150, 150a and 150b of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. What does that mean? These articles do not reconcile pensions, but pension bases. In fact, most pensions are still in line with the old ones. This is according to an article that is not mentioned here at all and is paragraph 151. In particular, this means such coordination that in February the pension is valued by about half a percentage point less than the minimum pension base. And these two articles, mentioned here, are designed to compare the so - called old and new pensions in a comparable manner. And if such a proposal were to be applied here before us, in fact transfers would be aligned with full wage growth. Let me mention here that the harmonisation of transfers with salaries is unusual and Slovenia would be unique in the European space. Not only that, we refer to the pension law and it must be made clear that Slovenia is also very generous to say so. It has a very good way of coordinating, whether we all agree or disagree here, on the very level of pensions. I'm talking about a way of coordinating. Coordination in Slovenia has a basis for wage growth. This is something special in Europe. Nowhere in Europe do we know a country where pensions are aligned with wages. We know the so-called Swiss formula, which means that part of the pension can also be reconciled - half of it, with wages, but nowhere at all. It is essential to know that our system is generous with regard to the way in which pensions are coordinated, as has already been mentioned in the contribution of this government in this mandate. With regard to the third amendment to Article 1 I would like to point out one more thing. He says, "At the same time, reconciliation also takes place for the same period." What, though, is this amount or the amount of coordination? Let's say that social transfers, or transfers, would be aligned to increase the price of living needs over a period of time, say 4.1. What are these 4.1s? 4.1 is the sum of monthly figures on price growth, rising prices of living needs and finally we get a cumulative sum and raise transfers for this cumulative amount. On the contrary, once more post-coordination, re-coordination from January forward would, of course, mean that what we have already taken into account during the first half of the year is being coordinated once again. This is, for a substantive reason, very questionable not to say that this is an additional €60 million from the point of view of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I must say that I will gladly support this change of law and amendment to this article. He's good, he's good to me, but he's not perfect in all the elements. I agree with these concerns that we can share what we create in this society, but if we have a major problem in the division and wages and in the wage policy, this coordination can also pose a risk to wage growth. I am glad that there are quite a few mayors here in the National Assembly, those who have these social hardships, the difficult life of a certain layer of people we see every day from nearby. These are people who simply come to the offices because they don't want to, because they want to work, but they can't, and they have nothing more to live for. Whoever reads the Sunday Diary today sees that in one of the stores in Ljubljana or in the suburb of Ljubljana, and so, I tell you, many more in Slovenia are writing about who bought the bread because people can't pay for it at that moment. Many Slovenian innkeepers have also done this for a long time. And if the pressures of certain people are such that they have no means of survival, then the government and the National Assembly must do something. I agree, however, that the goal of every society must be that people live from their work, that those who do not want to live from their work and exploit the welfare of the state and social hardships could work, cut their wings, those who cannot survive themselves, so they have no opportunity or conditions, and we are obliged by the relevant legislation to assist the Members of the National Assembly, and we are doing so now. I'm sorry we're doing this before the elections, because we could have done this sooner. I also see that, for the second point, Members of the post are already gathering and grinding knives, obviously they are not interested in anything too much, they are not discussing, they are not speaking. You will see in point 2 when a first-class political dispute arises again, and then they will be on the first trenches. When we share resources in this country, then we need to weigh and reflect; we obviously have no resources for social transfers, we have no money and we have had it for blames. That the one we're missing, we're driving a lot along the highways, now we're paying substantially less, someone [[...]] Colleagues from the post want a word, President, will you allow them? I think we're going to open another round of debate, and all those of you who weren't even in the hall first thing in the morning, and you didn't hope or you shouldn't sign up for a word, you're going to get a five-round chance now. And I want you to leave me alone so I can say what I want to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u73	Mr. Saiovic, if you provoke, you will also get a response. Let's respect the agenda. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u74	For all that, Mr President, as I say, I also take responsibility and the system in the National Assembly is such that if anyone disagrees with me, if anyone has been appointed to sign up, of course, to the debate or to the replica. The fact is that coordination of social transfers is also necessary due to expensiveness. And all that you explained to us in the Draganj allowance, which was only supposed to be a temporary, one-time pre-election candy, that all that you then argued the Dragan supplement that today at this point, if you do not support it, we deny it. It's just that these things need to be settled. See how the energy is irritated, how the food is irritated, and how the distribution in this society is. It is necessary to ensure decent life for those who have the lowest income, and that is what we are going to do today, not with a law that is perfectly ideal, but with a good purpose. I'd be happy to support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Rezman, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u76	Thank you very much again. First, let me look at this great generosity that has been so widespread here. Tell me how generous you are to these 100,000 people who are dissatisfied with your generosity - the pensioner, the exile, the unemployed, the sick, the fellows and everyone else. You live in a world of fiction. You are pleased with yourself so much that you think others will be pleased with you. It's not like that. Another time. What does this 4.1% that has now been calculated by the government mean? This means how much they have lost so far and how far they will be coordinated since the adoption of this coordination. So this is about what was taken from them in the past. Third time. When you talk about this in different areas of transfers, how much has been added this year. All these individual transfers could also be discussed by me - but I would like to talk about higher numbers that would be more favourable to the beneficiaries of social benefits. This was also calculated by the Government, and this was made clear on the Committee, where we discussed this and said that if we followed DeSUS's proposal, the social beneficiaries would receive about once more. That's the truth. And as for the last thing I would like to say right now is, look at the third amendment to Article 1. This amendment tells us that, because we know that the Government will not support us, we accept the government's mode of coordination, but we still want the reckoning back. That's all we want.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u77	Thank you. Because there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening the application. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, Tribune visitors! I will support a change of law, just as it is prepared with our amendments. Of course, I will not support what has not been coordinated. There's been a lot of nonsense here, and of course, that's why we have to respond. Comparing the change in this law with vignettes and saying that we had money for vignettes, but we don't have it to raise pensions, is huge nonsense. One of these nonsensees I heard at the time of the vignettes when my colleague Swickl talked about how someone would not be able to rumble on Bézí or would have to pay €35 for it. It is true that even in the Slovenian Democratic Party we are not satisfied with many things, and we have warned about the irregularities of eight years. As we pointed out, we were later given a mandate, and in this eight-year period since many irregularities, we have rectified injustices. However, it is necessary to know that in the last four years it is impossible for all to be done; for one simple reason, because in the last 12 years it is simply too, literally, the theft of our property, the property of citizens and citizens. My friend Saiovic has already mentioned that they're "bringing flowers" for point two. They are not grinding anything, but it is clear from the report prepared for the second item that some, including some of our colleagues in this Chamber today, should be arrested before they leave this room, because they have, of course, caused catastrophic things about this, including some transfers, social transfers, pensions and so on, which we are talking about today. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party in this coalition, we have prepared many of these legislations in this area, where we have substantially corrected the situation. If we start with kindergartens, high school meals, scholarships and also pension legislation. However, DeSUS has always been in government and in previous governments, and in particular in 2004 it has not been possible to maintain that minimum in pensions, but this legislation has changed dramatically into poor pensioners. It is only with the mandate of this government that we have been correcting this and, as I have already mentioned, it is not all at once, but: when we see that there are real problems, we are solving them both by means of a Draganj allowance and by means of this case, we are amending legislation and coordinating it twice a year, not once. Which is definitely better for the pensioners. Of course, all that or a lot of what some are talking about, I would be happy to support myself, but some things, as has already been said: for the first time, are not systemic, but for the second time, for everything, it is necessary to have money. And it can cover as long as it's a blanket. I believe that, in this area too, very quickly, perhaps even this year, this legislation will be further amended when the well-known indicators on economic growth and financial opportunities offer the possibility that pensions can also be raised, or other instruments, to improve the pension situation. This option, I believe, will follow the next parliamentary elections. Otherwise, pensioners may already be able to reflect on the next rises, but, of course, under the governments that were before, there would be only stagnation and, so to speak, the destruction of pensions. In fact, the robbery started with a change in pension legislation and brought things to the lowest possible point, and we are also renewing it with this change today and returning to the pensioners what belongs to them. I think it belongs to them more, but unfortunately, we're going to have to sort it out gradually.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We are therefore in the case of Article 1 and the amendments relating to the content of Article 1. However, Member Rudolf Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. So, as far as this Article 1 and the amendment is concerned, I think that the arguments that the Secretary of State has said do not even make sense to quote them. But I'd like to say something that's been said a lot by my forerunners. On the contrary, Mr Saiovic said that this government does not have a hearing for social transfers, but considers anything else. He mentioned guilt, by the way. I'd say, Mr. Saiovic, good morning. I think it's very early, not at 6:00 in the morning, but maybe 5:00 in the morning that you said it. Let me remind you that I'm arguing why I told you this. Indeed, it was this government that, at the beginning of the mandate, I think, at the end of January 2005, it fixed pensions. I hope you haven't forgotten. This was the settlement that was the correction of the 2000 injustice. And if memory doesn't fool me, that settlement nearly brought one pension a year. Now count, by 2005, when it came into force, that is to say, five pensions. For five pensions, they were denied at that time by your famous government, which then accepted such a settlement. Our government, however, was the first to do so at the beginning of the mandate. That is to say, you can't tell us that we get some candy on this salary, because right at the beginning we went to fix the wrongs that you did -- not you, but the government that you belong to in the previous term did so. And to say another thing about that, to back up what I said. In view of the new alignment that this government adopted in January 2005, one year your colleague, Squeakl, was roaring in this Parliament as Slovenian public finances collapsed because pensioners received more money. That's what it says, finance can go down if there's more money for this transfer - and that's what it is, not for less. What does that mean? Because for one year my colleague Squeakle was roaring to see if this is a possible model if, by chance, this political option wins in these elections, it will be the first to do what they will do to get the pensioners back and set up that model, as it was in 2000. I have the right to think about this if this model, which is now in force, is to take down Slovenian public finances. I think that although my colleague Squeakle has calmed down a little, they also told him in his client that it is not good to say that pensioners have too much money and that the state is giving too much money. In addition, I think that he has also calmed down a little because he also knows because he is an economist that social transfers are only possible when there is a strong economy, when production is high, when economic growth is high and this is what happened in this mandate. And social growth depends directly on economic growth. And those who say that it is overheating the economy, because economic growth is too strong, it means that you are also against social transfers because it is directly linked. There are no social transfers, big, strong, if economic growth is not strong; I hope you are all aware of this. And one more thing. The law you have proposed is supposed to be in force - good, but it is immediately in force, but the effect should not be until 2010. Yes, then it would have been the same if the law had been proposed in 2009. It would be the same if only 2010 could be implemented in order to be of concrete benefit. Yeah, well, isn't it better what we're proposing, or maybe a little less than you're suggesting, but right now. I imagine it's more effective if you get some money right away than if you're waiting for 2010. And now I'm going to say something hypothetical, but what if that's why it's only in 2010, because you're counting on us to win the fall elections, and by 2010, you're going to be able to change the law and take it back. Gentlemen, I have the right to think. And of course I support [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Yes, Mr. Potch, I have the right to think. Now I don't know if you're the only one thinking smart and everybody else thinking stupid. You take this right, but, well, you have the right to think like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u81	Thank you very much. So, there were a few applications to the replica, I think there are two replicas. I also ask colleague Brenčič, colleague of Brenčič, was your proposal of procedural nature or was it just a desire for a new round of debate? Okay, so that means we can go to the replicas. My colleague Saiovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u82	Thank you very much. I'll say good day to those who, despite what's happening now, don't understand it. The fact is, in the country, we can share as much money as we have. If we lack it very much for highways and if we have significantly reduced the revenue of users with vignettes, why is the story unfair, therefore those who drive more pay less with a new solution, and the return account will, of course, have to be settled after the elections. It's simple and simple logic. The state has as much money as it has, and because it spends more on roads, more on military and arms, of course we are running out and saving it on social transfers. This is a simple and understandable story for those who are only now waking up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I'm asking Members present to turn the sound down on the computers. Thank you. Reploco's got a colleague of mine, Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Besides, I don't know why Mr Pukšič and Mr Petan talked about me because I haven't discussed it at all today. That is my fundamental question to both gentlemen: which part of my debate did they address? Thank you very much. But I'll discuss it in two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u85	Thank you very much. And to my word, I invite Ambassador Martin Mikolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear secretary, colleague and colleague. Well, Comrade Saiovic, I didn't sign up for this debate because of you, when you gave us the green light before, so that we could discuss it. I have to say that I have been here all the time and I have listened to the debates, but somehow I have come to the conclusion that so many kind words to socially weak people and at the same time some pre-choice puffs on the part of some have not been heard in the National Assembly for long. I even think that someone will even say that the law we passed last year in 2007, which introduces a uniform system of coordination of transfers, is actually the cause of inflation. We have come so far today regarding some of the debaters here in the National Assembly. I say, and I will also defend this further, that that marriage was not bad, but it is true that the law showed its flaws when inflation began to take place. At that time, he showed his faults, but we are not prophets, nor are all members of the European Union, prophets of inflation. It is surprising to them today that 4% of inflation, like us, is now no longer a surprise to us that it is 7% of inflation, and this has actually been the cause of all that we have done this year, in 2008, to take certain measures to at least alleviate the plight of those who really feel it, those citizens and citizens. And today we are discussing so much about what DeSUS proposed, although the explanation was that it was a fraud, the date from which it would be valid - I believe in them in part - but in the final stage what was in line with the proposal of two coalition parties or what the Ministry supports is the best solution, which is currently, at least in my opinion, the best. Of course, I understand that Mr Žnidaršič is troubled again by what will happen in a year or two, but again he is not a prophet as I am not, but when inflation is indeed going to decline, that means it will not be okay again. But I think in a year or two, it'll be possible to fix the law again, or whatever government it is. But you know, if I turn things around a little bit - what the state gives to our citizens and citizens on the one hand, and on the other hand what citizens can do from the point of view of certain taxes and obligations, I would also like to mention that. You know, also certain indices regarding the increase in these payments are created on the basis of consumption of living costs. You know that, fellow mayors, when we set prices or indices for the compensation for the use of the buildings they pay, for municipal contributions and everything else. In some ways, I also find it most logical to increase certain values against the rise in living costs. In fact, it's the cost of living that shows how much money you have to have in your pocket to survive. It seems to me that there have been too many hard words spoken here today, mainly because of some populism, but it's a very premeditated time that I won't say anything else. We would do well to adopt the law and enable our people to live a decent life and all that the secretary has mentioned. Let's not just look at one thing now. Everything that has been adopted this year, and if cumulatively, as has been said, you add it up, you see - I think the leader of our group has also mentioned in his position how cumulative this is in relation to the state budget. I think he even mentioned 200 million euros. I will certainly support the proposed law. But I will not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Above all, I would like to tell the well-respected audience on the stand and citizens some of the facts that are being forgotten today, so that we can see how inadequate the policy of the last three and a half years of this government has been. I would like to begin by congratulating the DeSUS Group on the fact that the proposal for a law follows the conclusion of the 2008 EU Council of June 2008. These conclusions say that one of the biggest problems in Europe is the problem of increasing food prices, living needs and that something needs to be done. And fixing the way escalation is one of those ways. I regret that this has not been proposed by the Government of the EU Presidency. Why didn't the government propose it? Because, as early as January this year, they said that inflation was not a problem. Inflation is the problem. Inflation is a problem when Mr Bajuk and Mr Janša said that Slovenia could be indebted. And since 2005, Slovenia has been heavily indebted. We were all in charge of EUR 15 billion net at the end of 2004, and today, according to the latest data, we are all in charge of more than EUR 35 billion. And this is where inflation is generated. Of course, it is necessary to react appropriately under these circumstances. And we proposed a January response. We have proposed a lower increase in material costs for the state authorities. We have proposed appropriate social measures. And what happened? The 2008 budget provides for a fifth or 20% increase in material costs for the public authorities. Today, however, it has been said that this correction will go down by five times, 4.1%. Please, at least match the indexes between you! People feel there's something wrong with the welfare of everyone. And as someone said today, Slovenia is supposed to be on the right track - Slovenia is on the right track only for some. For those who received the maximum tax reduction at the time of the Government's mandate, first of all a fifth of the tax reduction in the highest income classes financed by higher incomes, with higher pay for the abolition of housing and other benefits in lower tax classes. These are the facts. People with a salary of €10,000 received a lower income of €4,700 at the annual level, financed by 200 workers who have to pay up to €100, 150 more income. People have bills at home. I signed my own signature under the fact that today is an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. And I am pleased that yesterday the law was harmonised at least by entering into force immediately, not until 2010. However, the law still does not solve the underlying problem. The data are as follows: 106.6% or 6.6% of inflation growth in the first six months of this year compared to the first six months of 2007, 4.1%, it is said that 2 percentage points less than or less than one third should be coordinated by these transfers. But given the bigger problem, and yesterday was Tuesday, when they had discounts in pairs and mercators, there was a lot of crowd in the store. The index of food and non-alcoholic beverages in the first six months is already 13%, although we usually have a season in May and June because they come, we know, warm up, come to the market products and lower prices. By the end of the year, this index will go through in 15 and you are arguing here with a coalition client whether or not you will fix the coordination of transfers. One of the colleagues said today, luckily, we're running out of time to cover ourselves with as long a blanket as this one is. The problem is that in this mandate, some people have pointed out longer blankets for themselves - the ones you gave them lower income. For people on the social floor and for recipients of social transfers, you had two years of frozen coordination. Because of the law proposed by this government and unfortunately adopted this coalition. Excuse me, no DeSUS representatives. However, he was accepted in the National Assembly with the majority and the power of the political majority. It is therefore good that we adopt the law today, it is good that the Government is finally only supporting this law to a certain extent, and it would be very good to consider all the effects of the proposed first amendment. Slovenia ends 2008, the last year of this government's mandate, a situation in which only a very small minority has much more. But most people finance it, unfortunately, with increasing inflation, with increasing prices of living needs, and the government is watching it all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u89	Thank you very much. In view of the previously expressed will, I am reopening the application procedure in conjunction with the amendments to Article 1. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go. A colleague, Stanislav Brenčič, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Of course, I was not overly impressed with the way the Magi government was run. Roba, but during the mandate period 1996-2000 he chaired or ministered to the department which created this "day" after Pukšičeva, who came to this point. And the Slovenian People's Party at the time was very involved and I personally and we have done, I am sure, a great deal of work, a demanding project which the Government is unable to implement this time or in dreams. And she had no problem with that question. And she can therefore be pleased and grateful to the then government and also to the Magi. Robbery as a minister. In my previous term, I was also a Member of Parliament. I don't know what bad things I've done, but I hope Pukšičov doesn't make me cry the first criminalist today, and the D.A. arrests the one outside when I finish this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? My friend Pukšič's discussion or a replica? The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u92	Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u93	My friend Pukšič, I'm sorry. I've been duly warned. I conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 1 and the amendments tabled. I am opening a debate in conjunction with Article 2 and the amendment of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to discuss this article? No, no, no. Then I also conclude the debate here. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote or half an hour after the end of the 2nd item of the agenda. Until then, I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 2. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission considers that the State aid is compatible with the internal market and that the aid is compatible with the internal market and is compatible with the internal market. I inform you that we have 5 hours and 15 minutes of time available for this point. However, before we proceed on the basis of the script, we already have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are convinced that the National Assembly should respect the laws most consistently, protect the reputation of the rule of law and the constitutionality and legality. Commissions of inquiry as one of the tools of the opposition and the National Assembly to control the functioning of the executive branch should be exemplary. The legality of their operation should be one of the most important criteria for the success of the National Assembly for all Members and Members, for coalition and opposition, and especially for the leadership of the National Assembly and its President. It should not be an important victory achieved by misleading or forming the truth and raising the hands that proper and fair conduct should be important. Unfortunately, the ruling coalition doesn't understand that. Its contentious victory and short-term success is more than a legitimate and fair operation. This is how this coalition works in all the investigative commissions of this mandate. In three, one is today, its report is on the agenda, it has a majority, and it decides with this majority, in the quarter where most of the opposition had it, it has made it impossible to complete the work and make the necessary decisions. This Commission, which we will discuss today, was set up to challenge the opposition's possibility of examining the legality and possible accountability of the current government in selling Kad and Soda's shares in Mercator. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition and the Slovenian National Party, in the work of the investigative commission, whose report we are considering today, we did not want to cooperate because you did not allow the Commission to give priority to Mercator with our influence. That is why, and that is the first reason, we also do not intend to participate in the report that you have accepted with the majority, but not at all, because, in view of Mr Puksic's debate, we expect what level of debate your debate will be, as Mr Puksič already threatens to arrest a Member in the lobby of the National Assembly, which is below the level of action of the Member and should be interrupted or taken by the President of the National Assembly. Ladies and Members of Parliament, have your own circus and show without us, and we will not be involved in this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u95	Thank you very much. So on behalf of the SD Group, you have announced obstruction for this point of the adopted agenda. We continue as expected - colleague Pukšič, please calm down. The Shirtz Messenger, procedurally? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u96	On behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, we are also predicting the obstruction of this item on the agenda. We believe that the Commissions of Inquiry have proved to be a tool of concealment in this mandate, but not of detection, and when they come to a dangerous proximity to the truth, they have also played with such and different mechanisms. This Commission was set up for a single reason in order not to investigate what should be investigated, but to prevent an investigation, a concrete investigation into the operation within Mercator in order to cover the stains. From this point of view, she was incredible, she was also incredible in her work, we know that she took over and gave the task of investigating 2,000 cases, then she chose 83, processed 7 at 22 on average one-and-a-half-hour sessions, but she wouldn't talk about it. However, on behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to stress, however, that the credibility of the work of the Commission of Inquiry can be tested if you support our proposal, which we leave behind, and with a long explanation, even in thought. This decision will be a test of credibility for you, but it means a proposal to complete the investigation committee's procedure by doing what it has not done, especially now that there are new facts on the table, in the light of new facts; that is to say, to hear at least two more people: Mrs Andrijano Starina Kosem and the director of the company Pivovarna Laško Mr Boška Šrota. Why? Because, as I say, there are new facts on the table that the Commission has not taken into account. Finally, the sale of the share in Del stopped in 2001 before the key stories had yet to occur. These are linked to 2005, 2007. New stories are related to exposed optional contracts, which should prove that Mr Janez Janša, through "buyers" abroad, wanted to take over the work himself. They said that he was at the Lashko Pivovarna, that Janez Janša wanted to become a media tycoon and that he planned to cover up the manager’s purchase of the newspaper company Delo. Let Mrs Andrijana Starina Kosem say this, who was politely heard at a court meeting and for which an additional hearing was planned, which also has the facts that she would like to tell. Only then will the work of this Commission be credible and only then will the Zares Group be included in its debate when such a report is brought to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Just because of the minutes, does this mean that the so-called obstruction is being carried out on behalf of the Really Group? That's what you said. Then I ask you, because, of course, I must also have the authority of the leader of the Group of Members to deliver to me in writing that your position, which I have no doubt, is identical to that of the leader of the Group of Members. Thank you very much. Well, as a matter of fact. The report was submitted by the Commission of Inquiry for consideration by the assembly and I also give the floor to the President of the Commission to Mr Branko Marinič for further explanation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues. I regret, colleagues and colleagues who have left the Chamber and who do not wish to participate in, in my opinion, an important matter, in the important content of the report of the parliamentary investigative commission, which I have also led for several months. But I don't want to paralyze things in this sense, because it is my job to report, as it is, to present this high assembly. So let me first say something that needs to be explained at the beginning of this report that it would not come to this because I will later use, including abbreviations, let me first say in full name. Report of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the alleged damage to State property in the sale of shares of the Capital Society, d.d. and the Slovenian Indemnity Society, d.d. in companies, by covering the investigation of all sales which are controversial in terms of compliance with laws and other regulations and in terms of transparency and economy. The Commission examined the draft report at its 23rd meeting, on 15 May 2008, and adopted it by a majority, after some harmonisations and additions, with all the votes that the report would be appropriate as such for consideration at the meeting of the National Assembly. The purpose of the investigation is to determine whether the sale of Kad and the Court’s shares in companies involved sales which were non-economic, non-transparent and contrary to the applicable legislation, whether these sales resulted in damage to State property, at what amount and which of the holders of public functions were politically responsible for such sales or whose interests led to such sales. Five or six political parties participated in the investigative commission, namely the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, the New Slovenia Group, the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, the Democratic Party of Pensioners' Group, and also after the formation of the Lip Group of Ambassadors, also a member of the Lipa Group. It has already been heard and it has been said that the parliamentary commission of inquiry has identified irregularities since 1994 and until the establishment by 2005 with the sale of Mercator. The first meeting of the Commission was thus formally held on 26 January 2006. The Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry has focused on the hearing of important officials who were involved in politics in one way or another, some of them are dependent and intertwined in the performance of their functions, which they carried out in one way or another under political functions. Allow me to present here the Law on the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, which dates back to 1993 and was supplemented in 2001 by business provisions on the work of the parliamentary investigative commission. The parliamentary commission of inquiry that I led has not followed, in any way, or missed the important legal provisions imposed by the law that I mentioned earlier. Therefore, any judgment on whether parliamentary investigative committees are still needed or not, or whether they are carrying out the tasks imposed by law, I have to categorically reject all those who have a negative view of this, because parliamentary investigative commissions are not State bodies, institutions that at least large people would like to see, but unfortunately, parliamentary investigative committees cannot be expected to issue any court orders, any necessary arrests or anything like that which some would like. However, it is certainly the parliamentary commission of inquiry that helps all these institutions, as the highest legislative body, to obtain important information that may be the basis for the performance of the important tasks and functions of the institutions responsible in the Republic of Slovenia. The Parliamentary Investigative Commission met at 23 meetings. It does not hold to the fact that the representative of Really said that these meetings were short, hour and something. These were hearings, even after an hour and more, depending on what the parliamentary commission of inquiry was interested in. Let me say that one of the hearings lasted almost four hours, so I reject this conclusion from my colleague from Zares that these meetings were short. It is true, however, that perhaps this Commission, which I have led, has somehow tried to act rationally, especially in terms of a positive contribution to the content of the report itself, unlike some who do so for the sake of gaining space in the media and have a completely different interest. So at 23 meetings, the commission met and heard 33 Witnesses. Well, these hearings have been succinctly delayed by some who have been involved in specific matters. And it is those who are sitting in the National Assembly today who are acting as a member of the National Assembly and who, because of their political or other beliefs, are now sitting in some other party, operating under another trade mark, of course, are the ones who categorically reject such work, but because of their political functions in the past they were still connected to non-economic sales, they were not transparent, they were not in the interest of protecting citizens and citizens, that the property they sell through the para-national shares would suffer the maximum and, as far as we know, that they are then filling, among other things, pension supplies. And what are the Commission's findings, in fact? In chapter 4, the Kad and the Court of Justice sold capital shares in a total of 2,000 companies in the period from 1994 until the establishment of a specific parliamentary investigation - that is, of course, what the colleague said. The majority of the capital shares were sold in an undisclosed manner, without the invitation of Kad and Soda sellers, thereby making it impossible for competing buyers to participate in individual sales and thus achieve the optimal selling price. In the acquisition process, only the interested customer, as a rule, made a public offer. Sales violated the fundamental principle of business as a good master. As a result of this method of work, at the end of 2004, the Court showed a good billion euros or 250 billion Slovenian tolls of deficits, while at the end of 2007 the Court showed 635 million Euros of balance sheet surplus. At the end of 2004, it showed a positive financial situation of €237.784.000. By changing management in the 2005 mandate, by the end of 2007, it had increased the value of funds to €2 billion 308 million, €743,000, an increase of 87%. The undisclosed way of selling capital shares had a basis in practice and rules introduced and enacted by a long-standing ruling LDS, LSD or today’s SD. Political ties in the conclusion of business have been established and maintained in the long-standing government of political options, the successors of a decade of the sole ruling party in the Slovenian political space. In the country, a long-standing, non-disclosure of transactions between members of a political elite created conditions of a strictly closed national economy of interest, allowing the creation of monopolies that cohesively form prices, create inflation and poorer inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. This is also evident in the content of our report, in particular and in the taxi record, where and by whom. In assessing the capital shares in individual companies, the valuations were also unworthy, as shown in the case of a review of the valuation of Insurance Company Triglav, which is also mentioned in the content of this report. And when we talk so much about selling Mercator's shares, let me say that, and we also quoted members and members of the parliamentary commission of inquiry as taxing. When sold 15.35 % of the capital share in Mercator to Istrabenz and Case 13,74 % of Mercator’s capital share, Pivovarni Laško at a price tested at the time of sale on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange. We propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, under Chapter 5, a proposal for decisions, that the National Assembly adopt the final report and the findings of the Commission of Inquiry to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the alleged damage to state property in the sale of shares of the Capital Society, d.d. and Slovenian Compensation Companies, d.d. in companies, in such a way as to cover the investigation of all sales which are contested in terms of compliance with laws and regulations and in terms of transparency and economy. The National Assembly expects the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent institutions to take account of and take appropriate action by the Commission of Inquiry. The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as the sole founder and owner of the Capital Society, d.d. and Slovenian Compensation Companies, d.d. Through the Assembly and the supervisory authorities, it continues to implement the policy drawn up by the start of its mandate in 2004, which ensures the optimal results of the return on capital shares and investments. The National Assembly proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint members to the governing and supervisory bodies of the Securities Market Agency and the Competition Authority who are distinguished by professionalism and who are internationally established and not in political relations. As it is said, the parliamentary commission of inquiry wanted to do its work properly and honestly with the invitation of those who announced the obstruction today to leave this important treatment, but unfortunately because of their involvement they did not want to do so, nor did they want to participate in the substantive investigations themselves, only to face the facts that we are presenting in the contents of this report today. And of course, when you present a mirror to someone that doesn't want to look like it, of course, it turns away and doesn't see that image. I think that this is not good for Slovenian democracy, but especially for the conduct of those who have left the hall and obstructed it, and this is probably not what citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia want. However, if that is the case, it is only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in force in this Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u100	Madam Vice President, thank you for your word. Members and Members of Parliament, Representative of the Government. The DeSUS delegation monitored the work of this investigating committee of the National Assembly at all times and also actively participated in its meetings. We agree with the findings set out in the report, as they are based on evidence that actually testifies to the irregularity and imprudentness of the business as well as to the Code of Courts. The business of both companies has also been subject to audit by the Court of Auditors, which has also identified a number of shortcomings and irregularities which resulted in an opinion with reservation. The facts on which the findings of the Commission of Inquiry are based are: the sale of capital shares in more than 2000 companies. This was the case in most cases for direct sales. When he made two public invitation sales and the Court only sold one. Neither Kad and the Court acted effectively because they did not try to get the highest possible purchases. They did not carry out interest verification activities with other potential investors, resulting in an optimal share price. We were even aware of the case when the board agreed to sell, even though it did not determine the price, which in addition to the subject matter of the sale is an essential component of such legal transactions. A number of irregularities related to respect for internal acts and the office business of both companies have been identified. On this basis, the Commission has adopted and proposed four conclusions with which the DeSUS Members agree for the most part. We agree with the proposal that the National Assembly adopt this final report and the conclusions of the Commission on the dispute between the two companies in question. We also agree with the second decision to take account of this report and to take appropriate action by the competent institutions and with the last decision on the competence of members in the management and supervisory bodies of the Securities Market Agency and the Office for the Protection of Competition. In particular, in terms of transparency, we are also referring to the proposed third decision, namely that the Government continues to implement a policy that ensures the optimal results of the profitability of capital shares and investments, but we believe that it would be more appropriate if - as Members of DeSUS - we repeatedly point out, the PSPIZ was the institution that would actually own this property and that, in our firm belief, it would be more appropriate to act as a good and caring host with the aim of creating additional funds for pension and disability insurance. Indeed, STIZ was actually the owner of this property until 1996, and then there was a modification of the legislation, which was the beginning of the process, which is also the main subject of this report and at the same time the beginning of the process of so-called tycoonisation. We are confident that, otherwise, we would not now consider selling capital shares in more than 2 000 and selling it in an undisclosed way. We are also convinced that there would not be a situation where prices are determined only by the buyer and not by the seller and thus by the single loss of funds. According to DeSUS, not even the sale itself was necessarily necessary because, given the current needs of the State and the balance sheet of this property, there was no need for additional filling of the pension allowance. This property is supposed to be a stock for future generations of pensioners. Of course, we understand the government's measure of withdrawal from the economy, but also the transfer of this property to the PSIZ would virtually mean the withdrawal of the government from the economy, just as they do in other countries, for example in Sweden and Canada. Members of the DeSUS are convinced that the political impact of the informal groups When it has turned into a stock parking lot which is still publicly sold far below the optimal market price, many times in order to obtain funds to solve the fiscal and financial problems of the current authorities, instead of the so-called property of the pensioners from the privatisation process being the basis for creating additional pension funds and at the same time a security deposit for the future generation. We further call on the two state funds to act accordingly, i.e. as a financial institution, and to limit the political impact as much as possible. As already mentioned, however, this situation would not have occurred in our belief if the assets were managed by the PIZ, as originally envisaged. Finally, I can say that we will vote in our Group of Members on our own conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Member Friends.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The report, which is before us, reflects some attitude towards state property, which has experienced, according to economists, a transition in terms of transfer in particular, as found in the report, a concentrated transfer to individuals. Whether this is legal or not - there have already been several discussions in Slovenia and, of course, the Prime Minister himself has made an excuse that he has made a slight mistake about Mercator and that everything was not as it should have been. But look, Mercator is the reason this committee was meeting. And it is at Mercator that we have the most concentrated transfer of ownership to two individuals: the current majority owner of the brewery and the current majority owner of the former Istrabenz or the current OMW. And nothing happens. No one asks in essence about the origin of the property, how it can be allowed for individuals to do so in a transparent way. I believe these are stories for children you wouldn't listen to for the night. But the fact is, we don't want to discuss it. Untransparent, illegal and also selling under the counter, we are still doing this today. We've also recently sold the General Sailing. And this Commission, at its fourteenth meeting, confirmed my proposal, adopted the decision to include this company in the list of companies to be under the control of this Commission. But there is a miracle because the candidate at the College of the National Assembly disagreed with the proposal for an extension. You know, today, the Director of the Court is a man who is closely associated with the Minister of Finance. And the fact is that in a very domestic way the only Slovenian shipowner was sold in a non-transparent, illegal way that contracts are not yet available, even though the company was sold and that they were the best providers of Slovenians, Slovenian companies. In the National Assembly, the Minister argued to me when the auction was opened that the best bidder, who, of course, received twice as many invitations to complete the offer and to improve the offer, would receive this company's best bidder. And in a moment, they changed their minds and decided to auction. The foreigner, who for years and years marketed as an exclusive "broker" of this ship and also changed the business documents until the time when the balance sheet sum corresponded to him so that he could buy it, also dictated the pace when the auction would take place. The court is also involved in alleging and, of course, also high government officials, but nothing is happening. Nothing. The treaty is still a secret. At the meeting of the Government, this was to be considered under the heading 'confidential'. 5.a This is supposed to be the point. There was no point at all. This is a criminal who should be dealt with in essence by this commission. But since this is happening now, today and here, of course it was not desirable. The findings are therefore clear. The past as well as the present. But the law enforcement authorities must not act. Why should the police not act if the facts are known? What will happen to this report? I had to fight to even put what I said about the General Sailing into the record, because otherwise today it wouldn't be in the record. My opinion is slightly different. As the Slovenian National Party has not been in any of these pigs that took place during the transition and are still happening today, I can safely say that this is essentially a poverty generator and that today we have 250,000 poor and hungry people and many of them without the right to work. If you want to darken or blur things out, then you set up a commission. This is already a general rule and a general river in Slovenia. And we have set up this committee in good faith that it will discover something and that it will also actually be due to the consequences of what is evident, at least according to the President's words, these are facts, I believe that these are facts, although I have to say that I have been a little passive since then, since the 14th session, when this was rejected by the college and when the gentlemen of the ruling coalition in this committee have decided that they will not look at their sins. That's when I became passive on this committee. Why would you go to something that was pre-produced by getting what we got? We have received a series of facts, which may sooner or later also material for a court hearing. Is anyone incarcerated for this? Has anyone been temporarily deprived of his freedom? Has the law enforcement body decided to start an investigation in one of these companies, with the responsible carriers that did this to the pig? It's not. Then who are we talking to? Who are we painting? Who are we kidding? The Slovenian public does not want to hear stories about honesty. There's no such thing as honesty. And that's why today is this obstruction. Yeah, Testen can laugh because he held a stick and a "stango" ruling coalition to write such nonsense in the report. The purpose, however, was clear. I expected that when things were crystallized and the facts were made clear, however, something would happen that would have to happen in a normal state of law - in order to actually turn this over to the law enforcement authorities, with all the materials that we had available in the special room. And, of course, these gentlemen should do what we're telling them to do - take away anyone's freedom, put him in a prison of inquiry and start a procedure for the execution of the criminal procedure. This is not in Slovenia and it will not happen. I believe and I can say that those involved in this scenario are also some national heroes and we cannot close them. How are we going to close the Bavčar, please! What will the Slovenian public say? He was, however, a key collaborator in the independence of Slovenia. Yeah, we can't do that. We can't lock him up. We're going to lock up whoever stole the chocolate or something, and we're going to jail in Cyprus for that. I'm not saying anyone stole anything. But I say it's impossible to get an enormous sum of money, 100, 200, 300, 500 million euros, a billion in a decade and a half. That's what I'm saying is impossible. The source of the property is traceable, it can be verified. If it were will, desire and honesty, it would be done. I find it difficult to support such an unprincipled approach and only to boast that we have done something to mark all the facts, but if the culprits are at large. And the fact is that even if you want to, we have a lot of stuff out there that should be at home. Nobody's looking at the banks where the money's loaded. Because this can easily come into conflict with the interests of those who still rule today. Everyone's involved, black and white, so it's not a good idea for the truth to come to light. Of course, there will be a change of venue this year as well. It would also be good to have deration carried out, so that something else would have happened so that the syndrome would not have to repeat itself. But I believe we won't have the will to do it here, either. Once again, we will set up commissions and talk about how this government or the former one was dishonest and how this one is honest. Tomorrow we have a committee to oversee budgetary finances, where we are dealing precisely with General Navigation. I'd like to know what the minister will say tomorrow under "different" under "confidential." Under the "confidential" point, they accepted the sale, transfer and sale of the General Navigation behind closed doors. He was right in his office. And this body based on a decision to be taken by the Government, of course, under the "confidential" point. But this government was still in session when the transfer was already under way. At least that's how the papers show it. It is said that the notary has signed something that has not even been accepted. I repeat, there were no points 5.a on that day at the government. But who cares? You, us, no. The Slovenian public will also forget this in six months' time, Slovenia will not have a national shipowner and a foreigner who has also acquired property with allegedly counterfeit business documents, as he was involved in the company as a co-owner, bought a company authorised by the National Assembly for the protection of the interests of small shareholders. Later he buys it because he is sold by a unionist who becomes the director of this company, and for years and years he arranges business documents to come up with a number when he answers that he can play the so-called sale of the state share. Article 80 of the Public Finance Act states that careful financial supervision must be undertaken prior to sale. But they didn't do it in this company. Even the partners were prevented from doing so if you didn't have to. The Director of the Soda knows nothing about the problem in Paloma, the Slovenian steel industry. He says it's all about all the companies he sold. The scenarios are about the same as those of the General Navigation. In the old days when the Slovenian nation also fought against its own traitors, patriots and fascists, the partisans fired when they stole an apple alone. Today it is possible to decorate half of Slovenian assets in the economy and nothing happens to you. Our advice is, if you're stealing, steal enough to be protected. Because if you steal enough, you have protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to attend. Here. If you steal a lot, it happens a little. But why is that? That's because of this national council. Because spiders who go to a pay phone don't do anything to change that. Because we were three and a half years old, ladies and gentlemen, so that the legislation that made this possible could be amended. Those spiders who speak today, not on the left, not on the right and the like, did not once participate in a debate where they would specifically intervene with a proposal that would prevent this matter. If there has been an impoverishment of state property, ladies and gentlemen, then it has been due to our dual morality. It came because we allowed this under Slovenian legislation, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia encouraged this through the business funders, whom I believe everyone in here knows who they are. Business financiers are two of the largest state banks or, rather, a government bank. That is why any report by the Commission of Inquiry is, therefore, any talk, three, four, five months before the elections, ladies and gentlemen, of course, flooding, restocking and flooding. Pointing to someone who, two months earlier, has enabled him to do all these transactions in connection with the bank, in connection with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and with the guidelines within the framework of the Court and Kad, is exclusively and only political, and this very cheap, talk. We all know that both the Court and Kad, two of the institutions that have state assets in the administration, namely, the companies that we or the ancestors have created in front of us for years and years, are all mandates so far, whether the previous mandate or this mandate should allow for sale. The current government is trying to say, "Most sales, the most untransparent sales took place under the rule of the LDS and some opposition spiders." The previous Government is saying that the highest frequency of sales was in this mandate, with the help of some opposition spiders. However, the fact is that for how long we will be talking and talking to each other, whether in the next term or in this mandate, we will be asked to set up an investigative commission to review 500 cases of sales of state property and decide within three, six, nine months or so, then we are aware of what the purpose is. The purpose of this is nothing less than once again to get a bunch of paper through which we can look for our space under the sun at some declaration level, with TV broadcasts, different policies, different political parties. If Slovenian policy were to really strive not to have such matters within our country, then they would be based on the structure of the basic dilemma. The structure of the foundation of the dilemma, gentlemen and lady, is not in cheap language, but in the autonomy of the Soda and Kad. Whenever Minister of Economy, Mr Vizjak, was asked about the availability of state property, the sale of state property, the acquisition of state property, he was Minister of Economy, a member of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, a member of the strongest political party within our country replied: "Although I am the Minister of Economy, I do not interfere with the Court and Kad." At the same time, we all know of the nickname of Minister for Economy, Mr Visiak, that he is at the same time Mr or 'Minister of the South'. Why? Because of the takeovers. And I don't mean south like a spider, but south like someone who deals with financial transactions within our country in an organised and unorganized securities market. However, not only will Mr Vizjak, who is number 1 the culprit, be guilty of the fact that this is his area, the fact is that he should not look with open eyes at such matters and that he had all the measures in his hand to prevent the matter, but he did not prevent it. Just as the Paloma administration is not convincing today, we all know what kind of business it is trying to put in its pocket within the next two, three months, the National Assembly will not even give an audit report. And all this is accepted because it is said that economic operators, who are only in the management of a political staff, are autonomous and they look for the best. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, present at the National Assembly, we all know that, on the basis of the proposals of my colleague Boštjan Zagorec and my proposals, you have had a 27-time opportunity to discuss in the National Assembly, not in the last month, three months before the elections, the sale of state property, the Sodo and Kad strategy, and you have always decided that one and the same Members will harm you that hour once a month, not all the time to discuss Slovenian companies, transitions, ownership transfers and the like. All the voting statements exist, and I have offered them no number of times at the press conference to see where the cause of the mistake is, but of course the journalists don't care either. Until one company comes to the front page of the newspaper, everything and everything that those real actors want can take place with this company. I've been in the National Assembly for a while, more specifically than 24. 8. 2006, I'm waving a document, a list of sales of state-owned companies in the hands of Soda and Kad. There are hundreds of these companies. These companies are not 200, there are more and so on. But in the National Assembly, of the 90 Members, not once has the necessary majority been found in order for the National Assembly, so we who consider ourselves to be so pure, so good, and things are happening past us, despite the fact that we want to make amends, have not once supported the proposal to discuss this. And you're probably wondering how I can tell someone a spider. Of course, I can tell him that if he had a 27-time chance to do this, he always squeezed "no", and then now the end of the regular term comes with such profound blue, important words and denotes himself "I am nothing". The same guilt is borne by the one who just watched it, like the one who did it. Because you applauded him in this way by preventing such things from happening in the National Assembly. As far as the investments of the Court and Kad are concerned, they are divided into three groups. We're talking about entrepreneurs from all over our country. On the other hand, if we look at what happens to these companies, how much their managers pay, not only pay, not just the meetings, but also take part in the profits. You know what's most interesting? To pay for their participation in the business even when they operate a company with a loss. Why? Individual management contracts, separation, that virtual separation between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and individual administrations owned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia allows the Minister of Economy to write with the indication of the Prime Minister 'but I cannot give', you know, personally to my question of the Member State, 'but I cannot give you data on the level of meetings of state-owned companies', because it is not in private companies that we will understand, or the amount of participation in the transport of an individual company, 'because these economic operators are autonomous and we know roughly that this is in accordance with the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia'. But he doesn't know how much. These are the answers of the Minister for the Economy, the gentleman who likes to represent himself as Andrei of Styria, but always with an indication of the Prime Minister. Then how can anyone in this country really believe anyone else? Events related to Paloma. In them, I see only one light point, namely, what Boštjan Zagorec managed to bring to his home body, the Committee on the Economy, and that next week the story will continue, I think that on Tuesday, in connection with that company. All the other companies mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, have passed through the National Assembly and are still present since all of this was sold a long time ago. But at the beginning of this year, a so-called struggle began for who would present himself as a more obvious defender of something state. With this, the President of the Government, or Mr Janez Janša, started with the so-called "pure shovel", which will give its effects or the epilogue only in 2009, 2010, when individuals who were photographed on the big bell and placed their pictures on all the headlines of the newspaper will sue the same country, otherwise the other Prime Minister, because he has soiled their name because he has reduced their potential business partners because he has reduced their left, right, everything. But Slovenian politicians don't care. The moment is important, the effect is now here. It's important that the moment someone's ratings have grown, someone's ratings have fallen. And indeed, even though I may have imagined a month ago that in our country we will no longer be so naive and believe this political form, but that we will believe in the content for most citizens and citizens, obviously not. So cheap, so primitive, as after the dictatorship of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia we behave in the National Assembly, in relation to people, citizens and citizens, that someone steps for this speaker stage and says after everything has been done, "yes, you know, someone is a duck, and he did it." I think it's very depressing, but I'm afraid there's going to be a strategy, which is that strategy that says, strategy A, the blame is the left, strategy B, the blame is the right, or strategy C, it's the blame and the left and right that it's going to bear fruit again. Members of the National Assembly had the opportunity to vote on the amendment we have offered you, I think that the end of the 12th month of last year at the time of the adoption of the Law on takeover, was the first to be signed, namely an amendment which would prevent the provision of a source of funding in connection with the exhaustion of the undertakings taken over. What happened to the amendment or to the amendment to make it a legal provision? The national assembly did not accept the proposal. Even so, two months later, when the story came to the headlines, everyone talked a lot, held their head, introduced the word tycoons, and today they wondered how someone had come to this property. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has enabled them to do so, not least with the Banking Act, the Company Act, the takeover Act, the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act. And if we overcome anything at least a little, then let's admit that our lack of interest, ignorance or leadership of work, exclusively appearing in the media, has led us to have Slovenian legislation the way we have it. Once again, I stress a sentence that no one likes, not even potential voters and voters: all the acquisitions took place in accordance with the legislation, which is clear that in our country it has been run by Mr Janez Janša for the last four years, with his majority of the votes in the National Assembly. In the previous period, this was Mr Tone Rop, and before him was someone else. The National Assembly does not want and does not want to accept not only the proposals or amendments that we have presented to you in the Lip Group. He won't accept it from any of the other opposition parties, because every time the Prime Minister of the government draws up his vision. And the vision that we have before us today is that, or the content that we have on the wallpaper over the past four years, is that the Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance, and Minister of Economy, Mr Vizjak, with your help and support comes to the National Assembly with a decision on the sale of state property, whether it be financial or real property. The decree he has, however, I do not think I am mistaken, each parliamentary group has five minutes to discuss. For five minutes, the National Assembly discussed the sale of NKBM - New Credit Bank Maribor. Five minutes to the parliamentary group. And to all Members, you thought, despite the procedural proposal, that this was just enough time to say the position on this issue. And NKBM was only one of ten and several companies that were in that decree. But, well, let's say, let's just keep an eye on this, at least we've been talking for five minutes on the parliamentary group. I think the sumarum time has arrived 45 minutes. In the meantime, despite the fact that we all know, we simply say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is empowered to sell 200 and some investments, the more important investments in our country, on its own. And how's the sale going? On the one hand, the Court and Kad - are authorised to make the sale. The strategy is defined by the Minister, the list is confirmed by the Minister. And when the Minister asks himself, Mr. Visionak, another SDS man, the largest government party, but if he can explain this strategy, why the purchase did not reach that minimum purchase or why the purchase was not paid at all, or what is with the rights of workers, what is with the remuneration of workers, then this same Mr. Minister, who has adopted a strategy that has set up a list of sales of state property, which is called the leadership of the Court and Kad, says, "Sod and when they are autonomous, I will not interfere with it." That's roughly the kind of voice Mr. Vizjak said. Over and over again. And we all know that most of the acquisitions within our country took place in 2005, 2006. What is the frequency of selling the shares of Soda and Kad, we will find out, given that we are obviously not interested at all, only in 2011 when the next national elections will take place. If anything is to remain in our memory primarily to ourselves, Members and Members, that an extremely large proportion of the blame for this kind of sale of state property is borne here by us, because no one can read the laws because we adopt laws that allow all of this. And all these laws come or are signed or authorized by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But since there's so many articles in here, we can fake it. We can artificially trample and unfortunately all these sales, all these things, bad legislation, will replace less or more beautiful faces with jumbo posters that will smile from 21 August to 21 September or laugh with the same password "we are better", "if you replace us, it will be worse" and similar nonsense. The report before us today is the product of a political imagination. Here we go. Personally, I do not believe that I will continue to cooperate because I am leading or continuing to chair the meeting of the National Assembly, and I thank Mr Vice-President Klavori for allowing me to perform this short act. The report, I stress once again, which is today and here, as well as all the other investigative committees that we have in the National Assembly, which are conducted on the basis of anonymity, based on the profanity of someone based on lies, based on bribes, that is simply said, gentlemen and ladies, every year when we go forward, these commissions are more foolish. If we wanted to change anything, we had this opportunity in this house to speak to the National Assembly every month, but we did not take advantage of it. Now, for example, we wonder how corrupt someone is because he has taken advantage of all of this, and he has already been led by the ruling politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President! If we are talking about the sale of state property, then we must remember when all these processes started in Slovenia. There, in 1995, sales of these shares or shares of companies owned by the Soda or Kad around 40 and then by the year 2000 and 1990, these sales had increased dramatically and were there at an annual level of around 300 to over 600 companies. Then this trend stopped and in 2005 shares or shares of around 70 companies were sold. What is essential to these sales and, as is clear from this Commission report, was that these shares of the two state institutions, namely the Soda and Kad, were not sold in a coordinated manner, but often separately under different conditions in different time periods. This also prevented a better price, a higher price, from being sustained so that a country with such a joint appearance in individual cases could also charge the takeover premium. In most cases, it was a direct sale. When, since 1995, he even had a regulation on trade in shares and shares in companies where public sales were at the very last place. All other options were previously exhausted and if no buyer was found in these non-transparent processes, even public sales remained as a non-digestion. Another guidance in terms of reaching a higher selling price was given to Kad only after 2001, when most of the sales processes had already been completed. Yet, after this year, practice has not changed significantly. During this period, 100 companies were sold directly, the share of non-disclosure of tenders was 34, and only in three cases was the public invitation. In three of the approximately 140 sales, they took courage and went together to the public tender. Such a method of non-transparent sales, sales where the seller was not in a favourable position, was also reflected in the result of the operation of the Court, which in 2004 recorded one billion deficits. And this trend, this result was corrected when another government came when these procedures began to be conducted in a different way. Thus, the practice over the whole period for which this Commission carried out a detailed review was undisputedly established, i.e. the shares of Kad and Soda were sold without a call for tender. It is said that some dedicated, well-informed sales have been made under the table, with good connections, which are likely then upgraded with some other connections with colleagues from the bank and so on. In short, in a closed circle, away from the public or from those who might even want to buy these shares. Why was that? What were the criteria? What were the reasons for the sale? Why was it not possible for all potential buyers wishing to buy shares to have equal terms? To whom did this serve, who benefited? Today, of course, some are in a awkward situation because they identify themselves in some roles where they have decided whether they have benefited from such a way. That is why I do not understand or understand the obstruction of certain opposition groups, because they do not want to discuss in depth the report, where they could bring evidence, against arguments. And if, as the head of the SD Group has said, the report is not accurate, why they do not come with data, with the information: "This is not true, here you have missed, and we do not agree with this because the data shows otherwise." But no. It's just some general floscules, "we're not going to be involved in this," as they say in the Zares Group. But the fact is that the Commission has heard more than 30 witnesses that there was one set of evidence materials, various documents, evidence available for the preparation of this final report. In our opinion, this report is a reflection, a picture of a period, of a situation. If someone doesn't like it, of course, there's nothing we can do to help. We even think that obstruction is one desperate attempt to see what the Commission has found to be somehow sweeping under the rug, so that it can be discussed as little as possible in order to make this as possible a speech. It is true, however, that we agree with what is stated in the Zares Group regarding the concentration of media ownership around the Laška Brewery or related legal persons such as Colonel and Attapprima, that these are harmful relations in terms of the constitutional right to information. Unfortunately, in this mandate, given that we are practically ahead of the end, it will simply not be possible to fix it. However, we will make every effort to try this media concentration or concentration of ownership in the media area not only related to Pivovarna Laška, but also elsewhere because of public interest, because of the constitutional right to objective information, we will also try to dissipate this. When we talk about the sale of state shares, it is not just about how and at what price they were sold. The point is that this is related to another major problem in Slovenia – in the vast majority of cases, these purchases were a serious preparation for managers' buyouts or acquisitions. In many companies, the country with these sales of shares of Soda and Kad lost its controlling share. This set the conditions or opened the door for the final management takeover. And we have quite a lot of these cases in this mandate. Like two such ones, I cannot mention everyone because of the time limit, but as two such larger cases, I can say, for example, Autocommercials, in which Kad and the Court had 25.14% of the shares at the time, and this was sold in 2003 and 2004 without a public invitation, of course, without a public invitation. And SCT, where Kad and the Court had 33 wholes and some small percentages and was sold in 2004, on the one hand it was a direct sale and on the other hand a non-public bidding. By the time these acquisitions were ready, the shares were parked, the controlling shares were no longer available, the way was open for these acquisitions, which we had witnessed in the past, to have also taken place. Of course, thank God that we have changed the legislation, that we have prevented further such and similar speculations and that it is also important that it becomes clear where the biggest tycoons who have also become the richest during the transition are, of course, at the expense of those poor workers who have worked fairly for their wages or have not yet received wages. The insurance company Triglav was also an example of such preparation for acquisition or cheap purchase. My friend Marinič has already mentioned this, but I must repeat this, because it really is such a screaming case that it is simply a matter of repeating it a hundred times, not just once. So if the estimated value is 250 million or once too small, then something's really wrong. However, the reason was that the valuation did not take into account the real result of life or property insurance. It is necessary to ask who was misleading this valuation house, for what purpose, why, why the next management did not act, why it did not order a review of this valuation, and so on. And if we go any further, there's a specific case. One of the two main privatizers in Slovenian history was, for example, our respected colleague, Mr. Cwickl, who was chairman of the Board of Directors of the Court. And at the time that he was chairman of this board of directors, shares were sold in 91 companies, again 40 direct companies, 40 by non-disclosure of bids, only two public offerings or a double public call for tenders and one bid was by the buyer for takeover. So much for man, about our colleague, who is the main advocate of transparent sales, transparency, which has been proving for all eternity how this government has sold imprudently, recklessly and so on. The second is a respected colleague of Rob, who has also served for a long time as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Court of Justice. Even during his period, nothing else was sold. So that I don't mention any other cases, let's say I'm going to say one that's closer to me, and that's Kruh-Pecivo from Maribor. At a time when the Court and Kad sold, each in its own way, a 10 percent share in this company, had a great interest in Maribor, as well as a wider probability that someone would buy at least some of these shares, but because it was a favourable price because the company was relatively well costed, but because it was an undisclosed collection of offers, of course only one dedicated buyer could come, it was Žita from Ljubljana. It also stated in the Statute of the Court at least at that time that the company manages its assets as a good master. But many companies have been sold without the views of the board of directors, but if there has already been a need for agreement, this agreement has been given without price, which is absolutely unacceptable. That means someone can sell whatever they want. Let me get this straight. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the Commission has done its job well. We will therefore support the report, as well as the content, the proposed conclusions and conclusions. We cannot say with certainty, nor are we called upon to determine whether the individuals listed in this report or who have been involved in these transactions in this wider circle have, in any way, taken direct personal advantage. This should be investigated by those institutions which are responsible for this in Slovenia. However, it is clear from the report that individual public function holders, mainly from the former LDS or the United List, have made it possible or allowed many shares in Slovenian companies to be sold untransparent and also recklessly. And this has also resulted in certain damage that we will or will all be covering together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u107	Thank you very much. My colleague, Milan Petek, will present the position of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u108	Thank you, Vice President. The picture of this hall in itself shows what we Members already think about investigative commissions in this mandate of the National Assembly. Like those who have left, we also think in the LDS that the work of this commission of inquiry is not worth special treatment, but unlike our colleagues we have decided to comment on this document, we would rather say this pamphlet that we received for today's hearing. Just at a time when a coalition with its members, and with the help of a always-preparable noble Member, is blocking the work of the only true, democratic principles created and by the opposition of the led investigative commission, this is the Commission to investigate the purchase of 8x8, led by Mr Cvikl, so at a time when the work of this commission is blocked, we are considering the work of the commission, which was created primarily to protect the image and the good name; how well we remember some of what we used to say about this character and the good name at the time of socialism, that is to say - history is repeated; to protect the figure and the good name of the coalition leader, in this case the Prime Minister, and all of what has been heard so far in the public and in the opinion of many, including Mr Janš's weapons tycoon. That's the commission's purpose. The LDS on the Commission, whose report we are considering today, has not cooperated. And just as when the Commission was formed now and especially now, we consider the proposed commission of inquiry, its work and its report to be a pure farce. Instead of merely addressing the disputed sale of Kad and Sod shares in Mercator, as one of the most insidious practices in the sale of state shares in companies, the Coalition Members masked this sale in the sale package Kad and Sod for a number of years ago, although in the event of doubts as to the correctness and legality of sales in previous years, all the levers and institutions that are competent and more called for it than this Commission, including the Kad and Sod authorities, which are so politically controlled. The composition of the Commission, in which most of the opposition did not participate, shows that it was not the intention of the Commission to objectify the results of the investigations, as it would be necessary to understand the procedures for divestment, valuation, understanding of financial and accounting data and knowledge of the area of valuation of companies which were sold, to understand the very high economic knowledge, of course, that knowledge of law would be further welcome. All coalition members of the committee obviously don't have that knowledge. This shows the educational profile of members, parliamentarians, collected from the website of the National Assembly. Let it not be misunderstood, I quote by arguing what knowledge was on this committee and what knowledge, as I say, should be on this committee. Mr Branko Marinič, President - Transport-Transport Technician, Mr Cyril Testen - Economic Technician, Mr Kristijan Janc - Teacher, Mr Ivan Jelen - Mining Technician, Mr Srečko Friend, not Coalition, but opposition - Driving technique and these criteria fit one of the members, Mr Sašo Pece - University Graduate Economist. I would like to point out that I am illustrating how and who has dealt with such difficult topics, which mainly require economic knowledge. For all the reasons given in the report, instead of the focus, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u109	Peace in the hall. My friend Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u110	Peace in the hall. My friend Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u111	guidance on the sale of Mercator shares, the Commission deals with sales years ago. [[...]] Although the Commission has already found, on the basis of the Court’s audit report, that there is a suspicion that State injury has occurred in the sale of shares in Mercator. Apparently, members did not want to or could read the Court’s findings in the report, they could say that the members did not read the Court’s audit report on Mercator’s sale at all, since this was not necessary because the target was known. If you have your cloaks on your eyes and you get orders not to look either side or back, there was no expectation of a different attitude of coalition MPs. They were abandoned by their courage and independence by entering the National Assembly anyway. But all of this, I don't think it's necessary to emphasise, is well known to the public. Those of us sitting here today, we all know the background of Mercator's sale. The main actor in this story is selling under the table, Mr. Janez Janša, is 12. 8. He sold Mercator Istrabenzu and Pivovarni Laško in exchange for the Government's political influence on the newspaper Delo. Andrijana Starina Kosem, the then State Secretary of State, who also participated in this famous meeting, told her that she had been instructed, once Pivovarna Laška had acquired an important capital share in the newspaper’s work, to ensure that the rulings had a long-term impact on the appointment of the Labour Supervisory Board and thus on editorial policy. This is taken from her letter. We know him. That's what happened. According to Stojan Zdovška, the lawyer of Pivovarna Laško, and Mrs Andrijana Starina Kosem, Janez Janša appointed the president of the administration of Del and editor of Del. These are the topics that should be discussed. This also stems from the speculations mentioned at the beginning of our presentation and on the basis of the statements of Pivovarna Laško that he actually wanted to become a media tycoon of Berlusconi type in Italy. The brewery Laško had signed, so to speak, optional contracts, from which it was supposed to show that it wanted to carry out a hidden manager's ransom and thus put the central Slovenian newspaper Work in its "post office" so to speak, of course, in a translated sense. That's the text from Del 5. 6. 2008 This was also recorded in a press release by Pivovarna Laško. His desire to control Del has been known since the beginning of his term of office. This is a goal that has not been achieved. We cannot keep quiet about this, either, that Mr President of the Government, with such a sale, when Mercator was selling Mercator under the table without taking over, also damaged state property. As a result, pensions through Kad and the state budget through the Court are damaged by the comparable premium of Lek, which is also mentioned in this document, for at least EUR 29 billion or for EUR 121 million or more, if the purchase was used for early purchases of bonds. This concept, of course, needs to be known. When and the Court signed a takeover clause with the buyers until 31.12.2006, which is unusually short. If the time frame of the takeover clause were at least until the end of 2008, i.e. at the time when the Mercator Pivovarna and Istrabenz were selling Mercator's shares, the country would have regained the difference between the price at that time - we know that there were 38 000 tolars or 158 euros - and 300 euros, after which the Infond held its shares in June 2008. If the takeover clause were in force, the price difference would be accepted by the Court. And this price difference is 62 million euros. For at least this value, it is evident that the State's assets are damaged in the sale of Mercator shares for the share of the Slovenian Indemnity Company. John Janša is known to have regretted Mercator’s sale after losing political influence in Del. Now he's fighting the windmills in the wind, chasing the tycoons he's building. This shows the duality of such people. Apparently, he's changing his mind about the situation. In 2005, he said that there were no errors in the sale and no irregularities; today he says the opposite that it was a mistake. In its opinion, the Court of Auditors also illustrated the case of an agreed economy because Kad and the Court chose the method of direct sale by contract, without checking the possible interest of other potential buyers to purchase this share. According to homework, what was already discussed in advance, by which price and by whom is sold, and because Kad and Sod did not want to look for other buyers, it also came true. Of course, the government with this action also stopped the labor-management buyout that he was preparing. This leads to a coalition claim that the sale of Mercator’s share would take place in the hands of foreigners in the event of this sale. And in all these facts, obvious irregularities, the commission of inquiry did not consider it necessary to further question Andrijane Starina Kosem, Boška Šrota, as well as Janez Janša. We are convinced that a correct hearing would certainly change the conclusions and conclusions of this report. And so we are in our conclusions and conclusions, even though those found are hardly worth serious debates. It is true that Kad and the Court had a deficit in 2004 and a surplus in 2006, but this surplus in 2007 is not only the result of the good work of Kad and Sod. The surplus was due to the high growth of shares, i.e. the market situation, and also to the large number of companies sold in the balance sheet before sales at book value and after sale at sales price. With regard to the proposed last decision, we attach the call for the Government to appoint members to the governing and supervisory bodies of the Agency and the Office for Competition Protection under the criteria of professionalism and international enforcement. This would be supported by a person if he could trust the applicants for the honesty of the proposed and if there were not a period of staff cleansing in many companies, institutions, administrative bodies, public institutions. We all know what the name of this cleaning is called, "Cadrovian Tsunami." And I could believe that if we had not recently seen the visit of both leaders, both the Securities Market Agency and the Office for Competition Protection in the SDS Group. We know it was a visit before the meeting about the so-called tycoons. The resulting conclusions, as drafted in this case, and thus organised and staffed institutions will not reduce the impact of policy on supervisory institutions. Let me reiterate once again that, according to our opinion, the Commission of Inquiry has not been professionally qualified to decide on damage to social property. It is quite clear that it was set up to provide John Janša with an alibi for his wrong decisions, obvious violations and irregularities. It was set up to prove how corrupt the former authorities were, and the current advocate is a clean shovel and clean hands, although it is obvious that these hands are dirty at least to the elbow. And to conclude. Since we have heard yesterday that the SDS programme has the title "Slovenia on the Right Path", we are afraid of such a path that we do not believe that leading this coalition will lead us to the right goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Member Cyril Testen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting from the Member of Parliament and the Members! I am increasingly convinced that the coalition did the right thing when it extended Mercator's shares to a review of the other 82 cases, because some of these are much more in the sky absorbing than Mercator. The Commission of Inquiry, which identified the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to alleged injury in the sale of Kad shares and of the Slovenian Compensation Company, covering all sales which are controversial in terms of compliance with laws and other regulations, was established on 30 November 2005. The establishment of the commission, which was proposed by the coalition and the opposition, was dominated by different interests and there was already a number of disagreements in the process of setting up which led to the non-cooperation of most opposition groups. In its work, the Commission dealt with 83 cases of sale of Kad and the Court's shares, which were to be disputed in terms of economy, transparency and non-compliance with the legislation in force. The sale of Kada and Soda shares in Mercator d.d., which were sold on 30.8.2005, was a special place in the work of the Commission and were burdened by a number of interests of various political and economic lobbies. At its 23rd meeting, the Commission of Inquiry heard a number of actors who were in important places in Kad and the Court, as well as some important representatives of companies whose shares were sold. It is also important to note that many who have been in important positions in Kad and the Court have later become important representatives of the executive branch, which in our view is not a coincidence. The Commission of Inquiry found that the legal basis for the management and management of the portfolio of both companies during the initial period was very sketchy and inaccurate. This resulted in the fact that the highest selling price and optimal return were not reached. In time, legislation improved and the conditions for optimal management of trustable assets in Kad and the Court improved. However, even at the time of the relatively regulated legislation, around 70% of the shares were sold in a direct, direct, around 30% of the shares in the companies were sold by non-disclosure of tenders, and only a small proportion, which can be listed on the fingers of one hand, was sold either by public invitation or by public bidding. We will continue to define ourselves in the New Slovenia Group until some very important and receptive cases, in our opinion. The sale of shares of the Capital Company and the Slovenian Compensation Company in Mercator, Istrabenz Koper and Pivovarni Laško was very receptive during the first year of this government's mandate. It must be said that a number of discussions were held before the sale in order to buy Mercator’s management, but because of the low offer of the Capital Company and the Slovenian Compensation Company, they were not willing to sell their share of the management to the company. The management's offer ranged between 18 and 22 thousand dollars for the stock. 30.8.2005 Kad and the Court sold their shares at a price of 38 000 tolars, which we believe was a market price. Mercator's share has led to a number of reactions between the opposition in the National Assembly, in the media and also in those environments and between those economists who were directly affected by the sale. A number of institutions, the European Commission, the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency, the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances and also the Commission of Inquiry have been involved in the assessment of sales. And what did these institutions find? The European Commission found that Mercator’s sale of shares did not constitute State aid to customers and that the sales price achieved was appropriate and reflected the market price. The Court of Auditors gave its opinion with reservation and found that these were flawed acts and individual procedures that needed to be improved, as Kad and the Court later did. However, the main observation of the Court of Auditors was that there was a risk that Kad and the Court did not recover the highest price that could not be determined. The Securities Market Agency has not found an irregularity. The Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances, as the only one, has adopted a decision which concludes that it is a matter of damage to state property and a request for appropriate measures from the Government. The Commission of Inquiry found no significant irregularities. In the Mercator case in Novi Slovenije, why do we believe that the state property was not damaged? In our view, Mercator’s share price was always below the market index in later periods. This is a very important indicator that the property has not been damaged. Another similar example is that if Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško bought so well, then their shares should grow above the stock exchange index, which never happened. As for the takeover premium and the comparison with Lek, it seems to us that such a comparison does not hold judgment. In the case of Lek, it is a purely different economic organisation, it has a completely different weight than a pure trade company. It is important for us that Mercator remains owned by domestic buyers, including from the point of view of sales of Slovenian products and from the point of view of exports of Slovenian products. I must say that in the New Slovenia Group there is also a statement by Mr Janez Janša, Prime Minister of the Government that the sale of Marcator was a mistake, we do not understand as illegal and as a sale at a low price. Another important case we want to touch is the sale of shares of Soda in Hotels Sea and Hotels Palace. Mr Milan Cvikl played a decisive role in the sale of these hotels in 2001, as Chairman of the Management Board of the Slovenian Compensation Society. 30. Seven. The 2001 Management Board, under the leadership of Mr Cvikla, has agreed that the shares of the Hotels Sea and Hotel Palace must be sold or traded with a public offering. In spite of the Governing Board's decision, both transactions were carried out by direct sales method, which is beyond the Governing Board's decision. All tenders received for this sale were not documented, arrangements were made prior to the sale of Hotel Morje and the exchange of shares of Hoteli Palace were made orally and no documentation remained, no record remained. The exchange value of the hotels Palace was lower on the day of the exchange than the exchange price. As a result, it was 11. Ten. 2001 President of the Board of Directors of the Court was replaced or dismissed. This case was also reviewed by the Court of Auditors in 2004. The Court of Auditors found that there was no written agreement on the sale contract. The Court of Auditors also found that it did not agree on the content of the minutes. 3. 6. During the 2004 review of these minutes and these consents were obtained in the Court of Justice. For miracles just in time, it is after two and a half years, right at the time of the Court of Auditors' audit. In order to make the case even stranger, as a result of all or as a result of all of this, the Court of Auditors gave a positive opinion on the sale. Finally, I would like to say a few more words about the results of the Court's operations and Kad. I think there's been a lot of talk on this subject. One of the typical cases that hides the difference in the minus and the later plus since 2006 is the valuation of the Triglav Insurance Company. On the basis of the invitation to tender, the evaluation of the valuations of the Insurance Company Triglav was ordered. The valuation was carried out by Price Waterhouse, the report was made on 3.10.2004 and the estimated value of the insurance company is EUR 252,8 million, which means that the share was EUR 112,91. What was not taken into account in the valuation has already been said - the true value of life and property insurance. Later this same appreciater revalued and found the value of EUR 508.2 million and the value of EUR 226,79, which is more than once. I think that in this case the purpose was clear and that no further comment is needed. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the report is correct and good and we will also support it with conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u114	Thank you very much. My colleague, Kristijan Janc, will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u115	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At the end of 2005, we set up an investigative commission. The reason we all know is that Mercator is being sold. The Commission is expected to investigate the alleged damage to state property in the sale of certain shares of Kad and Sod, and not only the alleged injury to Mercator's sales, as the opposition originally wanted or wished. We have therefore included in the investigation the sale of capital shares of other companies as well, and we have also processed good 10 of them more precisely. The purpose of the investigation was to determine whether the sale of Kad and Sod’s shares in companies involved sales which were non-economic, non-transparent and contrary to the legislation in force, and whether these sales caused damage to State property, at what level, which of the public authorities was politically responsible for such sales or whose interests led to such sales. The facts show that, between 1995 and the end of 2006, Kada and the Court sold a total of 2,447 individual companies, totalling 322,102,000 million, and the Court sold 1,192 shares in companies worth SIT 1336 million and when it sold 1,255 shares in companies worth SIT 161,766 million. However, the data show that most of the sales of shares were made until 2000 and most precisely in 2000. The legal basis for the availability and management of the portfolio of the two companies was very cheap and inconsistent for this period, but in particular they did not seek to achieve the highest selling prices and thus the optimal profitability of both companies. More detailed instructions on the sale of shares in terms of achieving the highest possible profitability and economics were issued only after 2001, i.e. after this year, when the main sales were unfortunately already over. We have found that Sod and Kad sold their shares in individual companies in a large majority in a direct way or in a direct way. It is sold only to one buyer and competing buyers were not invited to the individual business. The price of sales thus achieved was far from optimal. Following is a way of collecting offers, ways of selling with a public invitation to the seller Kad and Soda was only for a sample. In individual cases, in these presentations, the views of the Group will not go down. These Members will be touched below. What can we find at the end of this commission's work? The majority of the capital shares were sold in an undisclosed manner, without the invitation of the sellers, making it impossible for competing buyers to participate in individual sales and thus achieve the optimal selling price of Kad and Soda shares. Sales violated the fundamental principle of business as a good master. In assessing the capital shares in individual companies, the valuation houses were also subject to unworthy valuations. The most worrying or sad finding, however, is that the undisclosed way of selling capital shares had even a basis in practice or in regulations. We can ask ourselves why. There's a lot of possible answers. In any event, it was in the interest of someone, perhaps those who had in a suspicious way benefited from this title. If the members of the opposition, who are now among the most vocal critics of Slovenian tycunisation, had the will and will to arrange this in a transparent way, they could certainly do so. And it is likely that they could not be engaged and discussed about the so-called tycoons in Slovenia on the basis of such a transparent arrangement. Unfortunately, I personally believe that, as probably all previous commissions, this Commission has not detected warm water in the National Assembly, as well as, as I have estimated, all previous commissions to this call by the National Assembly, which have sought and identified such or other political responsibility, but have found few responsibilities in these proceedings for the sale of state property. We have concluded our work, unanimously adopted this report by the President himself and have done our best in the framework of the parliamentary options that this Commission gives us as a Member within the framework of the law and within the framework of the powers of the National Assembly. Most Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will also adopt the report, as well as the Commission's proposed conclusions. In particular, I think it is a good and meaningful decision for those who say that it is necessary for experts on the Supervisory Boards to appoint experts, not politicians or former politicians. I hope that this will reach those who are recruiting in such or other supervisory councils today, either primarily or exclusively in politics. Finally, I can only hope that the opposition fellow Members will not adopt any law in the coming time so that only one who finishes an economic or construction college can run for a member and mayor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u116	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with your presentation by presenting the views of the groups of Members, which means that we can go to the debate of Members and Members. I will lead the debate on the basis of a list of applicants or amended to the extent that Members have previously announced themselves. So the first word is from colleague Franz Pukšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Vice-President, a warm welcome to all those who accompany this meeting today and to the meeting on the point of work of the Commission of Inquiry. You know, in the parliamentary countries, investigative commissions are one of the instruments for verifying the work of the authorities, and in particular the responsible holders of functions during such or some particular period of time. Unfortunately for us in Slovenia, after 18 years we have not been used to it, and above all this is a great stumbling block for the work of the investigative commissions of the former party, the successors of the Union of Communists of Slovenia. And they still have a lot of problems as a continuity of the Union of Communists of Slovenia around democracy and democracy. I will support the report myself with both conclusions and conclusions. The fact is, when it says that the fundamental principle of business has been violated, it is management as a good master. It was definitely broken. More. Today it has already been said here that in 1996 when it came from ownership of the ZPIZ with legislation adopted in management directly under the government's interference. I think it was a mistake, a big mistake. And at that time, in fact, all of the things we are talking about today have been prepared, and they also leave the consequences that we have discussed in point 1, when we have to in some way mitigate the social transfers of some of the structures of the people in our country. It is concluded that the largest method of selling capital shares was based in practice and on the rules introduced and enacted by the LDS' long-standing ruling set, the United List, now SD. This is what I was talking about when I discussed the previous report of the Commission of Inquiry. I have pointed out what has been going on since 1994 and how it has led to the fact that politics has been corrupting with the judiciary, changed criminal law and then, on the basis of this, released the already convicted people. The following conclusion, which is here, is unfortunately correct again, that in long-term rentals, in the long-standing non-disclosure ways of concluding transactions between members of a political elite created conditions for a strictly closed economy of national interest and thereby created inflation, poored the population of Slovenia. This conclusion is correct, too. And my trip to the debate today under item 1 in item 2 was based on a proposal for a decision, namely that the National Assembly expects the Government of Slovenia and the competent institutions to take account of and act accordingly. Well, let's just look at some flowering flowers in this area. Milan M. Cwickl, with his social democrats, who he has crossed, tells us at every point of the agenda in the National Assembly about the issue, about the social sense, about everything that this government has not done, about everything that we are not on the right track and so on. It is true that many times in this country we have not been on the right path, but at least we were on the right track when in Kad and the Court they were looting and carrying out, in my opinion, as it says here, actually crimes that were probably covered by the legislation that I was talking about earlier, exactly Milan M. Squeakl and Anton Rop. See, at the time of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, in the ownership of 91 companies, two sales were made by public bidding, of which 88 were made in an undisclosed manner. These people then talk to the Slovenian public about some principle of honesty about something, and how they will rule if they regain power. God forbid that's gonna happen to us. Not now, not ever again, and not then, because this country would really bury it. See, since the 1980s, 40 direct sales and 40 non-disclosures have been made. And do you know what this means by direct sales and not in a public way? And if we read in the report that under Milan Squill's leadership, the board of directors decided on individual sales only without determining the price. Can you imagine what that means? In order for the municipal council today to decide whether to sell a movable property or not, without deciding on the price, and then leave it to one M. Squill to do so or to do so, so that there is no invitation to tender, no public bidding or direct negotiation. You know, I'm asking the question, and the serious question is how rich these people are today, how serious and where their assets have been, who have done it. Otherwise, it goes on to say here that one of these companies was also in this way under the Magi. Squirrel also sold a road company, where 39.7% of the shares were purchased by Vision, 39.7% of which are owned by Darija and Vesna South in the list of the richest Slovenians in the fifth place with 100-fifty million euros. Let's be simple. I, Milan Squeakl, sell someone in a non-transparent way some sort of case for some money great company. Tell me if you're sure everything else was clean. I didn't. And these people today say here, "We'll leave the meeting." Of course, because that's what they're afraid of. They are afraid of specific numbers, names and surnames. In politics they say, it is not wise to speak directly, it is not wise to speak about names and surnames, it is not wise to be principled. But colleagues and colleagues, I've been in these waters for too long. I've been principled, corrected and honest all along, and I'll stay here for as long as I can. God forbid these people get their hands on it again! Of course Anton Rop. When he led the government, he served as chairman of the Board of Directors of the Court of Justice. During the chairmanship of Anton Ropa, a total of 500 shares were sold in individual companies, followed by an additional 270 from 2000 to 2004. This commission of inquiry had the task of dealing with 20 companies, which means 5%. Listen, if I were to check all this out, what kind of report would it be? And now I also expect on this basis, I really expect that the authorities, the police, the prosecution, the law enforcement authorities, but they have taken this into their hands, read it and said, wow, and now something has to be done. And really check with certain people how and what. And if necessary, give them a place where they're being followed. If we look at what's been particularly in my eyes from the report, some special attractions. Direct mode, a non-transparent mode of sales was happening with accelerated intensity right towards the end of 2004. Yes, my colleagues from LDS and the United List, where were you in a hurry? You knew you'd lose power. Was there another empty pot that needed filling, I'm asking you. Where are you? We would be here to answer this question where you were in a hurry to sell Compass, 37.6% of Kad's share, September 28, 2008. And you're telling us today that we're in a hurry before the elections to regulate the country's legislation. Who are you making a fool out of in this country?Oh, my God! From citizens and citizens? This is totally crazy, crazy! You just can't believe it. Where were you in a hurry to sell 23.75% of SCT? I heard that Tone Anderlich, our fellow Member, is also a co-owner. I don't know, I haven't checked the Internet or anything, but let him say when, or maybe since then, 19.8.2004? Then Svilanit, May 6, 2004, Gradis GP 23.4% 28.6.2004, Hotel Lev, 24.66%, 19.6.2004. This report by the Commission of Inquiry is frightening. And of course, something other than leaving the United List today, I really didn't expect it. You know why not? Since the report, as on this commission of inquiry, was received by the Member of the Potrč in 2000, we also accepted it on the Commission of Inquiry on the damage to social property. Why did he do that? You know why? Because the report contained a lot of money to promote higher forms of economic cooperation in the border area and to promote cooperation with developing countries. So Slovenian money from the National Bank of course. Where he went was the question to Potts because he was signed under these final accounts of income and expenditure. His answer was, "I don't know." Of course, none of this money ever came back, except that we found at the time on the investigative committee that there was a lot of money on two secret accounts concerning Korean banks based in Celovac, that we found that through these secret car accounts they were driving money. The core of all this corruption, theft and poverty, colleagues and colleagues, is in the old communist system that made it possible. And when we came to the so-called democracy, there was no lustration, as in some other countries, because those who were actively engaged and with dirty politics at the time, but really dirty because they were literally washing, and in very narrow circles, money would simply not be forbidden to those who could manage social property and the fate of the Slovenian nation. In these four years, it has been difficult to put some things back. Slovenia was not on the right track. It was only in this mandate that she began to stare at the right path. I hope and believe that voters and voters will see this, that we want it honestly and honestly and that we will bring these things in the coming years so that prosperity will be true for everyone in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u118	Member Christian Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u119	Thank you very much again for your word, chairman. As a member of this committee of inquiry and Member of Parliament, I regret every obstruction in the National Assembly, including this topic today, which is either less friendly to someone more aware of the fact that, as members of this committee, at least the rest of us, we have tried, knowingly, to participate actively in all the meetings of such committees when the witnesses who were invited to this committee were asked to do interesting things. Some of this we have heard, many things certainly not, which we wanted, because this is also the right, for the first time, not to say everything before the commission of inquiry and from this, many debates, was quite interesting, interesting conclusions, interesting information which I thought was more profound, but of course some more shallowly, depending on each individual, and I must say that these many sales that have been happening, the main thing before 2000, some more 2004, and then later this is somehow falling, but with regard to this main sale, was indeed the main comment of all the members of the commission that have been solving this - why there were no public sales. Why this, who was it in the interest of? Of course, if we take a closer look at the bottom of this story, we know that it is in the interest of the buyers, public sales may be a problem. The problem is the higher price of the stock to buy, and that wasn't according to the buyers. And this may also be the biggest resentment or even the main conclusion of us, members of the commission or myself personally, that most of the cases were direct sales. This gives some suspicion that there was some agreement, some "deal" between Kad, Sodom and a potential buyer in a particular company that came and wanted to purchase. We know that something similar has been happening in this major Mercator affair, where the former Prime Minister obviously failed to negotiate this "deal" with Kad and Sodom, because he was then insulted because it failed him, as it seems to many in the ranks of certain Slovenian companies. That was the understanding of all the witnesses who came before this committee. Then we heard him too, and he told us his own, but above all in this tone of deep resentment, how he failed, and it worked out for someone else. As far as Kad and Sod are concerned, these estimates showed that they were more or less coordinated in all sales. They had some mutual agreement on the price and these matters and then also roughly coordinated together in all these sales of the shares of these companies directly to customers who were interested in the sale or purchase. A good master - it's hard to say here that you were a good master. Perhaps in some cases, in most cases it would be hard for a person to suspect that it is a good master if you sell it directly to someone who comes, knocks on your door to buy a share of this and this company. Now, about individual companies, I wouldn't, I don't think that's too responsible, because we're not here to say that, but we know that the Commission has dealt with these companies, we know what companies she's been dealing with, that's also, after all, clear and well-known. What I find quite suspicious was that certain valuations were made by companies that seemed more so to me; even if some members, representatives of the witnesses who were at the hearing, had certain concerns about the level of the assets that were assessed, who assessed, in what way, the re-evaluations, why re-evaluations and so on and so on, that the best price for purchases came, rather than just selling state property. As far as all these tycoons we're talking about today, you're talking. I think they were born many years ago and then they came to this property and today the rest of those hundred rich in Slovenia - we have a list, accessible to everyone - is obviously among them a lot of those who have come, here I would say, relatively favourable to the purchase of these shares of property, these big successful Slovenian companies that they own today, and now they also have a lot of assets, for which that main train or wagon, in my opinion, also for the law enforcement body, has already taken away. I doubt that today's authorities can do anything back in 1999, 2000. This story is lost. Anyway, retrograde, this isn't about the police, not the prosecution, not the court. We can moan here, we can challenge what happened, but for these gentlemen, this property is safe, dry, under the roof, it's not a matter of concern, and we can just cry and moan. This train took, probably also for politics, the National Assembly, the Government, law enforcement, the prosecution, the judiciary, and so on. That's behind us. I don't think there's any more help here. What was then in line, probably, with the legislation at the time, the regulations at the time, are likely to be defined by those able-bodied or above-average those who were in the trough, in those different companies, could benefit from it, and have also benefited from it successfully. It's kind of my assessment of this analysis that I could have done on my own when I was selling the property. In short, the main conviction is that if these companies were sold publicly, then it would be difficult for anyone to report to anyone that it was not transparent that it was not economical. Anyone - who would be interested in buying one, two or three shares in companies - would have the option. Unfortunately, many did not have these options because they were direct sales. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Marinič has the floor on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u121	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, we've lost our colleagues, I'm sorry. I have closely monitored and listened to the substantive debate of all representatives of the Group. I must say that I am extremely pleased that some have, of course, looked at this final report, just the content, have become a little familiar in this spirit and have also presented the position of the groups of Members in this direction. I am truly sorry that what Lucky Friend has requested that the parliamentary commission of inquiry also review the sale of the General Navigation of Portorož, but unfortunately this could not be done for the reasons he himself cited as justified. If we had it on the list, we'd do it. As regards some indications that each such final report by the parliamentary investigative commission is a political material that serves even before the elections. I must honestly say, and in this regard also to all the members of this parliamentary commission, that with the work of the Commission, some of us have started practically at the end of 2005 or immediately at the beginning of 2006 and that the results, unfortunately, do not come to the goal in sport - not come to the start, but come to the finish line. Of course, we have also brought this final report to our end, where we offer it first for discussion and later for admission, in accordance with the 24th and 26th Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, the National Assembly will decide as it will be, but we have specifically stated what we want. I do not agree with those who say that if you are a member of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, which you find - I will say at home that it will be more understandable - that you must have a doctorate for this. I think that we are Members and Members, regardless of our education, and regardless of our work experience, we have been called and empowered on behalf of the people to do our job. And in this spirit, we have done it properly and honestly, no matter what some may say, that we do not have the proper education, or the doctorate, or whatever. I don't think it's necessary to be a doctor to figure out how some people at the expense of state property have made a fortune, and this today shows up in the discovery of some individuals who have become rich by our beliefs. In the commission of inquiry, we've come to these conclusions that it can't be, I'll say, the result of some work. Some are justified and some are less justified. Once again, I would like to say that it is only work in the investigation of Mercator's shares and only the Mercator's treatment. You know, as one of the members, who is also the vice-president of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, has already put forward a little broader discussion and presentation of the contents around Mercator, he said exactly what was going on in Mercator. You know, Mercator is just one of the companies that's trading. And if someone now compares Mercator, a trade with Lek, it's hard to compare, even though the country's share is practically the same business. However, we need to pour ourselves some pure wine: there is a big difference between Mercator and Lek, after the activity itself and in the creation of added value. We need to be clear here. Again, when he sold his 15.35% capital share in Mercator to Istrabenz and Sod 13.74% capital share in Mercator Pivovarna Laško at a price tested at the time of sale on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange. But I am sure that many in Mercator want to make some kind of story, some curtain, some kind of scene that would actually soften the detection of everything that has happened in the past. And in the companies that the parliamentary commission of inquiry had on the list, 83, we looked at the documentation that we have at our disposal and presented it, and presented the findings and findings in the report itself. I am truly sorry that colleagues from both SD and Zares do not wish to participate in this debate in the National Assembly. At this time, but this is their legitimate right, press conferences have been citing this subject all day today, the content of this report. Whether it's right or wrong, let others judge it. However, I am convinced that a constructive debate in the National Assembly would contribute much more than a reference to conferences and a display of unilateral views on the content of the report under consideration. Once again, this is a parliamentary investigative committee which covered the period of sale of capital shares in 83 companies from 1995 to 2005, i.e. by the conclusion of Mercator. And once again, we have given Mercator a great deal of emphasis, and we have reviewed all the documentation available, but this journalistic sphere has given Mercator too much publicity, in my opinion alone, and many conclude that the sale of Mercator's stake to Pivovarna Laško and Istrabenz was a serious problem. Once again, from the material that the commission has at its disposal, there is no trace of it. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u122	Thank you very much. There's a colleague, Geza Juban. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is often heard that what is happening to us and around us, this nation and this country have not earned what is happening in this country - in the past and now. And obviously we're not going to be for a long time or we're never going to get to the point where it's completely clear who's more responsible for the stories that we're throwing here in different ways, or you're going to kick in red, or black, or green, or white, or white bush, all over the place, the bastards are flying out. And it's usually the way some noise starts when these bastards spray each other and find out who took more, and then the thing gets quiet again, because they're sinking each other if they really go. I have recently said that I would like to see how the President of the Government will lock up one of these tycoons who have recently been on the scene, of course not happening to them, and obviously not. This commission, which was set up by the coalition, was very unusual and was obviously set up at the time to block a commission that was supposed to deal with Mercator, because Mercator was then a very obvious story that took place in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. And that the then Secretary of State, who was here telling us how to privatise even state-owned companies, represented the Government, is today the most spat-out person among the most spat in this country. These stories are hard for people to understand, among which I may be one. If the coalition has in hand what we see in the last days, complete repressive authorities from the Court of Auditors to other courts, agencies, offices, police, prosecution. Mrs Brezigareva is on this scene I do not know how many - 10 years in this function and that she is unable to cope with such acts which are controversial, here I will agree with you, many of them are disputed how one commission with unqualified people for these areas should be confronted in 80 companies, 80 companies we have, we have on the list, there were some 30 hearings in all 80 companies; perhaps 20 meetings were few, some were very short, and now we are confusing ourselves with various sentences from left to right, although in this period all political parties were practically involved in these stories, or otherwise: whether there were coalition parties, or whether there were parties that supported any government at that time, whether there were people on one side owned, while others were carrying cash bags in foreign banks, as a fellow minister mentioned here. He seems to have switched banks in Korea or these banks have been accepting each other. We have read in various documents that the banks of Korea have received cash from weapons, perhaps cash from any of these properties or anything like that. My purpose today is not, of course, in this debate to defend Squeaks, Robbery and anyone else, because they are qualified enough, they should also have sufficient documentation to defend themselves, but as they have decided, they have decided. It is also in one of the conclusions that we should name professional people in the supervisory councils, so to speak, with education and experience. Today we have a very sensitive Mura company on the scene, the clothing factory is a typical example of how you do not think seriously with professional staff, but where you must already be a member of the competent supervisory authority of a person who does not have these qualities is an important member of the SDS. It means that you are not serious about this decision, and probably not in all other cases. We did not draw the provinces before the elections, but someone else and people at the referendum made it clear to us that we should stop this, even in today's debates, and that this matter should be resolved peacefully after the elections and that we will only gain and lose nothing. And another thing that just revolutionizes me so little and today again - we are supposed to be heirs or members of some former party, but those who read it to us were the ones that were the most biting members of the party and I am not in charge that now I will be a member of the party when I was never in life, but those who read to us were doing all kinds of stupid things in life to stay in this party forever and again. And usually I've reacted to these readings, and probably I'll be here as long as I'm here: don't tell us the stupid thing that you've been doing! Including the President of the Government, of course, who has some communists constantly in his sights, but we know what it was like in the past. At least some of them know more than I do that I've never been around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u124	Thank you very much. However, Member Branko Grimes has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u125	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. Today's session is very interesting. Perhaps even more because of those who are absent than those who are present. For those who are absent, of course, only prove again the old saying, that bad conscience is a bad thing. For they had already experienced their moment of truth at that meeting a month ago, when the anti - tycoon session was popular and they knew very well what the facts were. If they have forgotten something - as you know, amnesia in Slovenia in the lines of the transition left is a general medical problem - they have already been able to make sure that the data and facts presented at that meeting were correct. But this data, the same facts now reveal the official report of the commission of inquiry. That's very interesting. By the way, we meet the same people, same facts. Let's just look at a few examples. Already at the previous meeting, and this is confirmed by the Commission's findings, we have found that in certain sales in past mandates, not in this mandate, in previous mandates, Slovenian citizens and citizens are obviously potentially injured. Example. The sales of Lek, the sale of the Union Brewery. At Lek, if you count the Court and Kad, the commission found almost three hundred billion losses. That's a billion euros. This is for every citizen and every citizen, colleague and colleague, about 500 euros, so to speak. You know, when we're talking about the Union Brewery, it's even more interesting because there's not only damage, it's also worth tens of millions of euros, but it's also obvious that these injuries have been in violation of the rules that we've already discussed and are now officially identified by this commission. By the way, what was that all about? Direct decisions of the authorities were violated in order to enable a sale to be made on the nose by individuals. But without this sale, there wouldn't be a billion and a half on the "kaselc firm" we've faced in the previous session. And to refresh your memory, if someone has already forgotten, who was the responsible person who removed virtually all the security guards, that such abuse of position as had occurred in the case of the sale of the Union Brewery Laško was even possible? This is a billion-and-a-half-euro prize at the "kaselc firm" and Milan M. Cwickl, ladies and gentlemen will win the award. A new star, and after writing their trumpets, a national hero of the species of the Pahor SD. This is a real situation, which, of course, is now officially found in the Commission's report. And who was the key to all these sales in the past? The only person who combined two, over a period of time, two key functions at the same time and in Kad and in the Court, which was a unique case, that was Mr Mag. Tone Rob, whose functions in the previous session we only read for a few minutes, had so many, and they were all extremely important for the topic we are talking about today. And this Mr. Tone Rop, you'll all remember, he was politically setting people up. He was the one who was yelling at Mr Jankovic: "Remember, I set you up. Politics has kept you going. I set you up." You know, and these people are sending us brains today, they're not in this room because they don't hope to face us, but they're explaining outside now how it's necessary to vehemently withdraw politics from the economy. That's saying, what he used to do, then he forgot, because you know, amnesia with a red veil covers all the memory, everything that was in the past -- because you know that most of the population in transition flosculo, we just can't look back, so we can continue to paint and then use that logic, the oldest trick in transition left, if you steal from someone's pocket, then say as much as possible with your finger and yell how they cut. And as a result, a whole hall was made with some kind of sale at a trading company that was then investigated by all the institutions, and no one found any irregularities. And also those who had so much to say about it, of course, have never even attempted to initiate it officially in any such institution that would deal with it in accordance with the criminal code and procedure, because they know exactly that there was no such responsibility there. In past cases, however, they have been and are documented, and it is interesting that no one at the time, now they are long overdue, now that this is no longer possible, did not dispute when there was a time for this, even Mr Tone Rope, but was in a position at the time. But today he has so much to say about these things. You know, all these severe injuries, which have also been politically motivated, and this has to be emphasized, not only because certain red "old boys" have made a fine use of themselves and we call them tycoons today nicely, but for a simple reason because it was a political interest to then cover it in the media space. And an example of this is also in this report, the sale of the shares of Del, I will not say "under hand" but certainly in a more untransparent way, when the government for those six months came under the unfortunate Bajuk government, which, before it took place, had lost everything before, and then reduced their hands as quickly as possible in order to get rid of it so that there was no chance of a skeleton jumping out of the closet, and that is why we now have the elections in mid-September. This is really the fault of the rush to cover things up. Because they knew exactly, you know, Slovenia is now basically in puberty, it's 17 years old. This is by human standards of puberty, and everyone who's through puberty has come to know that if you have one big red puzzle somewhere, it takes a while to squeeze it out, and then you just get that shit out. And in this case, it was clearly purely for this; it was not to be allowed time for these things to be revealed. This time, however, was enough time, and some things are now being revealed. It took a really long time to replace certain people. You all know exactly what the problem was. If we just said that we were going to be someone who was obviously politically set up, which is what Mr Rob said to replace him, there was a thunderbolt, her, a human tsunami, a political exchange. We have replaced - and this, beware, on the basis of a referendum decision - the former president of the political party who was at the head of television. It was civil society, it was neutrality, it was media independence. But when it was replaced on the basis of a referendum decision by all the people, it was a political intervention. You can only sell such nonsense in Slovenia where you can base it on a media space such as it is. But these numbers that I've been talking about here, the potential damage -- let's say again, it's more than a billion euros when you count it. But these numbers also reflect differently. For then these damages have also caused the economy to appear to be worse than it could possibly be, and this can also be proved by numbers, and this is the only flaw that I personally see in this report that we will not only praise it. And this is a flaw, and let me show you an example of how to prove it nicely. Look at the case. Mr. Rob, we said he was a key asset. In 2003 it was the last year, when it was completely in power all year: the growth of the social gross product was barely 2%, not even 3%. In 2007, which is the last comparable year for which official data can be obtained when led by the Government by Mr Janez Janša, the growth of the social gross product was more than 6%. Well, more than twice as high. That's if you're doing the right thing, ladies and gentlemen! However, if it is possible to make certain non-transparent sales, so that everyone who is able to deal with it takes advantage of it, then you have a social gross product where Mr. Tone Rop had it at a rate of 2.3%! And I'm sorry, colleagues and colleagues, that's the annual average, that's not the maximum. If you had used the maxims that are also, of course, available, even at the European institutions, verified that no one would have challenged these numbers by accident, then Janša would have the number here, where the address is already, because it would have been strong over 7%, and Mr Robbery would have been there at the beginning of this year at 2%. By the way, this meant that at the time Slovenia was lagging behind for Europe because Europe on average had a higher starting base, and now it is being reached with real brilliance. This is the difference that people have the right to know because this same choice will be faced in a very short time and they need to know that with the choice of Mr Ropa, that is, Pahor's SD, because it has given him a special ceremony when it comes to their kind, you get a low growth in social product and huge problems in the issue of social property management, and that in the event of a different decision that I personally advocate, you get a 6% growth in social gross product, which is significantly higher than the European average, and this is something that you can justify people's well-being. Moreover, if anyone thought that this was just one case, we could look at past mandates, and you will find that in the mandate until 2000, the growth of the social gross product was on average around 4%, then it fell below or below 3%, and in this whole mandate, on average, it exceeded 5%. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a success if you manage the property of this country fairly, but if you do the same as Mr. Rob, you're down here somewhere. And also, because usually in these things he tries to confuse himself with talking about inflation, which is also in some way a form of poverty of citizens and citizens, let's look at this example, which is very enlightening; that is, in the period until 2000, inflation was there about 10%, I'm talking about the highest one that he's usually afraid of, by 2004 about 10%, but now it's at 7%, so it's half lower than it was then. Did anyone then shout that this was the greatest social problem? Today, however, the circus is working and those who are criticizing us today are silenced, which becomes even more obvious if you take the average inflation - watch out, this is for the whole period - and by the year 2000, 8%, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that there is no one in shock because of this data, from 2000 to 2004, according to European data, ladies and gentlemen, was over 6% and in this mandate is only about 3.8%, that is to say, half lower than before. And those who had twice as much inflation with drasticly lower economic growth, ladies and gentlemen, today offer themselves as a positive alternative. That is why this report is so important. Finally, if I didn't make a proposal in this part, I would just say that; those who did all of this later dispersed, that's a fact. Today, Mr Golubič, whom everyone from the LDS says was a background man, is in charge of Zares, who - look at it - is ignoring today's session. As the great stars of Pahor's SD sit there in the SD Group, which ignores today's meeting, she went into obstruction. Why? Because they know exactly what data means, what the facts mean, if you show them in this way, that's why they're out there, so they're actually obstructing this session because they're running away from this image, ladies and gentlemen. For this is the reality in numbers, proven and comparable by Europe and tells all about who is who in this Slovenia. And we can only say thank you to those who have succeeded in completing the work of this commission, that they have also exposed and justified it. This part, however, should be regarded as a substantive contribution, for which all I have to say is that I regret that it is not an integral part of the report, and I hope that it has also been clearly presented to all in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. Every sale, every sale has its own political godfather. We all know that, and no one does anything. You all know about all the irregularities, they were told here today, some even started drinking light beer. It is also true that there is talk of swine trade in the sale of the bank of Maribor, but some bought these shares first. So why isn't he taking action? We've acted. I brought a personal action against the person responsible for the sale of the share of the General Navigation Court. And I'm threatened, and if anything happens to me, don't think I ran into a tree with a car, because that could happen if I got kicked off the road. But why isn't she taking action? No action is taken because if this manure pit opens, you know, then the unbearable stench will flood Slovenia, because almost everyone here is involved in this, and I think, Mr Geza Juban has also talked about the fact that interest is too great and because interest is so great, protection works. The lions protect the right and right left, and this is proof that in fact the turbulence works well, because the thefts continue today, now, on a white day, currently via the Soda and when the non-transparent sales are taking place. Although Director Kato has resigned, he hopes to protect himself and his family sufficiently. In short, what the law enforcement authorities are doing and where the rule of law is here, that's what I'm asking myself. This report will not help.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Scholch, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u129	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and distinguished colleagues! I did not make any illusions that this meeting would be intended to clarify the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, which, according to the purpose of the investigation, we should do. The Commission has not identified these potential suspects, nor have they been named in the report, who could have been clearly shown to have taken advantage of or abused their position in the performance of public functions. In this regard, of course, this report is a complete disappointment. This debate is a great farce and shows what we have already said at the outset - that this study is intended to prevent one of the investigations into the holders of responsibility or the political responsibility of the holder of the public office of Mr President of the Government, because we have tried to base this on information that they have discussed the sale of Mercator's shares. When you found out about this, you just set up a different commission, and I assure you that if you would leave this to us, perhaps Mr Janša would also have washed away any doubt if we had no evidence of what we all think he was doing. With the commission and the report that you have adopted, and in particular with the debate that we have heard today, we see in fact that all this manoeuvre has been designed to divert attention from this information, which has certainly escaped this meeting without permission. It's the backdrop of all this. This is where we heard from my friend Janz that we all know about the 100 rich. The report does not say who has been unjustifiably enriched and who has been unjustifiably enriched by politics. If anyone refers to a newspaper that publishes a scale, then it is certainly not necessary to establish a parliamentary inquiry, but we have not heard any other data here. Mr Pukšič wondered here how rich the various officials of the past were. If there is no answer in this report, then Mr Marinič, his colleague, has failed. Let him and his colleagues who worked on this committee ask this question, but not to use this hall, as Mr Tuckati and others did in their own time, to call on law enforcement authorities to have clear evidence that someone should be locked up somewhere, if I have understood it correctly. At the same time, he regrets that there was no lustration. I would always be in some way opposed to lustration, but when I listen to Mr Pukšič, I am sometimes sorry that the lustration was not, because believe me, that you would not forget that Pukšič was a faithful communist, that he paid long membership fees, that Mr President of the Government was also, I will say what an active communist and as we read these days and watched photos, led the journeys along the paths of AVNO and, as it is said, preserved the tradition of "brotherhood and unity". Lustration, if it were, would have deprived Slovenia, as it says on the street, of such "models". There probably wouldn't be anyone else, but there's a lot of people I'd take a breath if I didn't watch these two. That's why it seems to me that what we're doing here and above all what colleague Grims is doing is traumatized in advance by a possible defeat in these autumn elections, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] something that does not justify the establishment of this kind of commission, which testifies to the abuse of these commissions. [[...]] And as evidenced by the abuse, I will say, these discussions. So, dear fellows, let's let you talk to each other about your traumas, about what you're going to do in the fall, if you're not going to be in this Parliament where you're going to hide, I'll say, those suitcases [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , which we don't know since the sale of weapons that they are, and other things. [[...]] Stay alone with these things and accept your own conclusions. LDS started [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Sculpture. Mr. Stan Pike, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u131	Thank you for your words, dear colleagues and colleagues, in fact only fellow Members! There's no colleague. Today we are considering a report from one of the investigative commissions. This report should not be considered if privatisation was carried out transparently, without political bots and without those side roads that were present on this privatisation. And it is right to say a few words about how, why, in public, it happened, and how it happened. Selling to target buyers without previous reliable valuations, lack of optimism - this goes against the selling price and not in the sense of a good master, that is simply said. And I have always objected to such sales, and I condemn all those sales that have been made in the past in this way. Then reshape the pids. When the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia received shares, they were essentially earned, properly earned. Did these pyjamas then just kind of fade away, it's like a cup of coffee? And no one was monitoring it! Simply, their capital has plummeted, it has become a few rich: I am also injured, and these are many. And who is to blame - a then government coalition that has not adopted legislation to prevent this from sanctioning these non-discriminations and, of course, not to support such a national interest that has supported it from behind. Of course, we are now in that national interest, which in our case is a very serious thing, because it has very much separated people, on the one hand it has created some rich people. What rich people are we asking? Those who were dedicated. More or less there are colleagues around me who have not been involved. They weren't invited either, and thank God they weren't! I believe they have so much morale in them that they don't join in. My fellow Member, Školč, spoke earlier about some of our members, having a fine tradition with some rare booklets. We have a lot of people here who have nothing and no party history, and I'm proud of it. I don't associate with that absolutely and criticize any deviation that goes against irregularities. However, that national interest had been exercised, however, it was necessary to have legislation that was rigid, from this point of view, non-functional, non-criminal. The law enforcement authorities are incompetent, from prosecutors to police. Of course, political courage must be behind this. Without them, there would not be such incompetent legislation and incompetent law enforcement authorities. All of this is then a connection over the years that has come to these riches across all borders, the social dispersion that I am against. Of course, the social democrats, who should be most condemned, have left the meeting today. And that's a mistake, and it's the right thing for our constituents to know who is fighting against social disintegration and so on. One more thing. What does that do? The tension in society. This is the fact that tensions are caused in society. And these companies, which have been privatized in this way, are weakening, not economically strong, their development is failing, and they are weak. So it can happen that other companies that are stronger take over, and then we really have this national interest. Then we are there and our national interest is perfect to destroy the company. I can proudly say that among these rich people there are no members of our party, and if anyone is rich, it is right not to be ashamed of his wealth if he has obtained it in a fair manner. But if he didn't get it in a fair way, he's right to be ashamed of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Scholch, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u133	Dear colleagues, I apologize, I have not previously heard in the microphone that I have announced an obstruction for our Group of Members, so I will be so short from now on because you have turned it into a farce, not into a debate on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions - and we will no longer participate in this Purgatory. It seems completely inappropriate for individuals here to confess that they are not rich, that they are poor, that they were not members of the Communist Union and so on. This is totally irrelevant to the topic for which we set up an investigative commission. However, of course, the most of their own shadows are feared by those who did it, and I said earlier that lustration would catch up with a nice number of your important members. I've never asked for it myself, and probably, as I know you, we'd be glad if one of our fellow Communists, who was once a communist, didn't see it, but you missed it. However, this debate is not about who has ever been anywhere, because it was not prohibited. It would be intended to identify political responsibility. These theorizes that someone as an individual has been politically responsible and solid evidence of this, unfortunately, is not in this report. This debate also shows that you have other fears and that you do not care about what happened in the past. It's also unfair to talk about all the prosecutors being incompetent. Are you referring to Mr. Attorney General Drobnič, or perhaps you are referring to the head of the Special Prosecutor's Group, today Attorney General Mrs. Brezigareva? They have been in the prosecutions since 1990. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u134	Thank you very much. So, Mr Školč, you have made this proposal, and I will tell you that it is time to discuss your parliamentary group, so you will not be voting. You're obstructing the vote. Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The report of the commission of inquiry is horrifying and frightening because of the content of what happened to Slovenian assets between 1995 and 2005. And because of these horrors of this report, we are, of course, faced with the departures of the groups of Members of the Party of Pahor, Members of the Golobich Party and Members of the Party of Mrs Kresalov, unable to respond and defend these works and the inaccuracies that have occurred; but the inaccuracies - these are horrendous criminal acts and against which they have not done anything as the holders of power in the 12 years. They supported such conduct and, in fact, it was a robbery, a robbery of property, which, unfortunately, also led Anton Rop as chairman of the Board of Directors of the Court. Unfortunately, the situation in our country is such that capitalism and capitalists and tycoons created by these gentlemen are so powerful and have absolute media power that they can control journalists absolutely with their capital and media power and their pressures, and that Slovenian journalists today cannot report this objectively, including the content of such a report. Unfortunately, they will probably report more on the press conferences convened during the obstruction by these gentlemen, who have no argument to defend Squeak, Rope and Golobič at a time when they had all the political power and there were these horrendous phenomena in Slovenian society. Now we can ask ourselves, when we read here what was going on, what was the role of Exercise, what was the role of Robbery. Why did Mr. Pahor take Rob and Squeak to his client? In doing so, it turned out that Pahor is not running the party, but that he is being led by capital to be led by the tycoons who are ordering him, and he just put a statement on the place to deceive people into looking better. And at this stage or at this point, I agree with Mrs Kresalov's statement in an interview for the evening that in the future our country should be led by someone who has clear solutions, not one who dresses well and looks good. This meant that Mr Pahor was unable to lead the government and that this would be a disaster for the Slovenian people and the Slovenian state. Because it is so obvious that this report does not decide in its party, but it is up to those who have done the most harm to Slovenian citizens. And, look, in this report are the horrifying numbers on the injury. But this is only part of it, because similar things have happened in the Slovenian Development Society, which is not covered here. But there they were, you know, all sorts of corsets and so on and so on and they went to Elan and picked up the money and so on. And that's not covered. And there, unfortunately, I stopped such a sale of capital shares twice in the company where I was the technical director. Twice! I watched the Inflagrants there, and I'm aware they didn't want to sell to the best bidder for millions of marks, and they promised the lower bidder a sale. I stopped twice, and then it wasn't possible, and then I got kicked out of the company because I wouldn't let myself bribe and buy. See, at the same time, it is happening that Mr. Pahor organizes in Slovenia enormously rich events, luxurious hapennings paid by those tycoons who have come in this way to the property. A few months before the elections, he has a campaign for election and his events are under the slogan "Slovenia can be led better". Even better for those tycoons we'd like to lead. And, look, all that is happening in this report has been carefully planned and carried out. This set, this group that did all of this, was organised from the time of the former state and passed unspoiled into the new country, and for a while quieted down and then organized and carried out this heist of property. We know these takeover laws that we've been talking about the last time that gave the basis for all this so that all these people today can say that they've done everything by law. Nina Platez was Secretary of State to Mr Rope when he was Minister of Finance. She wrote all of this and then went to Mrs Klemenčičev to the Insurance Office Triglav, when Mrs Klemenčičeva planned the takeover of Triglav. And Mrs Klemenčičeva and her appreciation of Triglav are also mentioned here. We know that it has been planned to leave such insurance companies to their own hands, in their own hands, for more than half the price below the estimated value. Slovenian citizens should be told that for such sales, non-transparent, direct, no public offer, without bidding that they are services that are paid and that they fly crazy commissions into the pockets of those who have made it possible. This and colleagues here were afraid, afraid to look them in the eye, when we talk about it because they have no answers, because some, unfortunately, have participated, according to this report. I'm afraid they cooperated. And, of course, we must inform Slovenian citizens: do not leave the country to this, then you will be a modern slave in the next term as workers in these companies. Modern slavery. If they have forgotten so far that they have gone so far without any feeling of doing so, they will be even worse in the next term. And let's tell them that we don't need the whole mandate, but we need it for a good year, so that some of them will also sit in jail. And even if the judiciary, as in every way possible, defends itself to carry out a house investigation, let's say, like in the last case. I don't blame the press, I know they're under crazy pressure, even the responsible editors who were set up to implement their policies, I don't blame them. Of course, they must defend such matters, prevent corruption and economic crime. They literally have to defend themselves. They're giving it to the suspects. And if someone writes that the rule of law is that it is a defence of the rule of law, when a prosecutor dealing with a suspect is meeting with him, taking advice from him, bringing him information that this is a defence of the rule of law, then God help him. But our citizens will miss it and miss it. Such leaders and such politicians, whether Golobič or Pahor or not, will not be allowed to take over their future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Ljublješek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u137	Thank you very much. A well-respected choir. There has been a lot of damage to state property today, and it is likely to be said and I do not want to repeat it. I just want to take a look at this issue, which we also discussed at the previous extraordinary meeting on capital concentration. I argue that if the work of the Commission on Armoured Armoured Defence Minister has been referred to as a "limonadast" sequel, this final report of the Commission, which we are talking about today, is read as criminal. The report, which is very transparent and concrete and from which the network of connected voters and companies has finally been drawn at least a little bit, which have controlled and shaped developments in the financial, business and media fields in Slovenia in previous mandates. From 1996 until the end of 2006, when both the Court and the Court sold over 2000 capital shares to individual companies, the principal was sold directly and in an undisclosed manner. This has resulted in damage to state property to many of the reviewed sales quoted in the report. At the time when Mr Swickl was Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Soda, Slovenian Compensation Company, 88 direct sales were made in public from 91 companies. That's the information in the report. The sales also show up at the time when Mr Rop, President of the Board of Directors, was eight years old. I have asked about this and rightly expected answers today, what is in fact the direct way of selling state property and what is the sale by non-disclosure of bids. Or four eyes? What were the awards for such transactions, why some key actors came with lawyers at the hearing of the commission on such sales, such as Mr Squeakl, which surprised me little. It is therefore revealed that in the past, policies and economies have intertwined as spider nets. All traces of illegal transactions and damage to businesses have been skillfully erased. The fact is that the operation of the Soda and Kad in the past was hidden from the eyes of the Slovenian public and the opposition of the day. This report also shows that a number of injuries and other abuses have been committed in a number of companies. It was the enormous wealth of politically selected individuals to be inexcusable, immoral, reckless and lawless, to say no to the place, to the state property that we workers and all employees have created for years and years by tightening belts, with low wages, by cancelling because of higher development goals and a better future. This is now felt by the vast majority of pensioners, who also have low pensions, many employees of low wages and former employees, such as small shareholders, bulwarks and fraud. I am looking for the real reasons why, in previous mandates, all the responsible institutions have completely cancelled or did not know, could not, could not, could not, could not, or could not, or hoped, because of political pressure to stop the tycunization of Slovenia. We citizens of Slovenia have the right to a clear public answer, in what way the modern capitalists, who with immeasurable greed, immorality and Balkan "super-wieldy" have come to great wealth, who were their political partners, who were the key players at the time of ownership, during the period when the largest companies were sold in an untransparent and uneconomic manner. And that could be said today by some of the main actors, who are also here in the National Assembly, such as Mr Rob, Mr Squeakl, Mr Lachovnik, but perhaps others, but rather obstructed this debate. However, since some of the previous government political elites who are now in opposition are no longer decisively affected by all times of life and events, it is those who have for more than a decade broken down the state property and made it possible not to own it, but rather cruel abuses, thefts and robberies of social property, who are now putting themselves on the trenches as guardians of the rule of law, as great fighters against corruption and are declaring great concern and suspicion for damaging state property in this mandate. The last time masks fall, it appears that ownership of state shares without transparent and economic sales has been limited in favour of the political continuity of a simple place with which a monopoly has been granted, the seizure of activities has been restricted to market competition, which has discriminated and has also resulted in foreign investors, which also dictates the price of food, drink and services to the citizens of Slovenia. I can only hope and wish that the activities of law enforcement authorities will continue, that actors of illegal acts will experience judicial decisions and the seizure of illegally acquired property and that Slovenia will finally breathe as a legal, fair and responsible country. Because of these views, I strongly support the proposed conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! This commission has dealt with a bunch of companies that I'm not going to list now, but I can say that half of them don't remember that they existed because they have different names today because they've been bought and the names of companies have changed. I want to discuss something else. In fact, those who insisted that what we were able to hear today was happening do not, of course, hope to be in the hall and foretell obstruction. Some after spending time and others right at the beginning. The explanation of the obstruction by the Zares Group was particularly interesting. The representative said that the Commissions of Inquiry were in order to prevent an investigation. I must say that this is not true, but I agree with comparing the committee led by Mr Squeakl. That's where it is. What Mr Cvikl is doing is really leading to nothing to prove that he is deceiving himself, taking an expert from a opposing firm, not wanting the sessions to be open, even when the material no longer has the mark 'confidential', he has mutilated Gorenje and is doing such a circus, but good. Let's do it in one order at a time. At the time of the so-called Robb's Government and when Mr Rob was at the head of Kad and also Mr Squeakl, 770 companies were sold. If we listed them today, we probably wouldn't remember names anymore, because they're something else now and they're in different hands. And in the work of this commission, Mercator was constantly remembered. Mercator was sold at a stock exchange. The price showed a stock exchange. I don't know a more transparent way to sell a company like the price dictated by the stock market. That's how it was. That says there's no problem. But with this Mercator, he's trying to hide something else. At that time, in 2002, Lek was sold. And Lek was on the stock market as the most promising company. Number one on the stock exchange was Lek. And imagine, Lek was sold by Kada and Soda at the Koda correspondence session. Can you imagine?Oh, my God! The company that is on the stock exchange number 1 shall be sold at a correspondence meeting, but not with any public competition or anything like that, that the matter is transparent. At the correspondence session! That's unimaginable! You can't imagine that if you don't have that information. And something else that's interesting. The drug was sold at a price. That's pretty clear anyway. And if we use the key method of the Court of Auditors, which made comparisons for other companies, we can find that the loss of Soda and Kad, including the countries, of the country's revenue for such sales, if we compare it today, was this loss of magnitude, you will not believe - 230 billion SIT. It's worth a billion euros because it was sold under the price and compared to Lek today. That's a comparison. And that was sold at a correspondence session, people. You just can't believe it. Today there is an opposition at the beginning, and for some time now the opposition has been seeking to malign the government. And quite directly, he was, I think, at least 50 times appointed Prime Minister Janez Janša to malign him with all his means, just like that. Correspondently likely. It's just in that style - first the discreditation, then if there's anything else that needs to be done. After that famous river from Nova Gorica and also in the style of this name, which is constantly occurring in the sale of these state-owned companies, which sold 770 companies, this is Mr. Ropa, who is clearly spreading lies even in the case of that famous Piran Bay, when it is now proven by evidence, by listening to tapes that he lied to the two presidents, then one president, and the leader of the largest opposition group in Slovenia negotiated incidents in the Piran Bay. Now they've proven it's not true. This man did not apologize, but this man sold 770 companies and Lek at the correspondence session. And he's still talking nonsense. And now others are repeating false accusations at the expense of this government and at the expense of this President. And for the end of the day, one sugar. Union brewery sold in December 2001. Interbrew was willing to pay 119 thousand SITs for the stock. But no. The Court and Kad sold 86 grand without the approval of the Board of Directors of the Court. No consent. It's another flower. And if we're going to calculate a little bit of a difference, these differences were due to national interest, because we had to sell to other companies, not the ones that would give the most at the market price, like Mercator did. Only with the Union is the difference of SIT 2.9 billion. 2.9 billion SIT because it was sold when we had a SIT money unit. It is now SIT 2.9 billion. As I mentioned earlier, Lek can now calculate billions of euros, amounting to 200 billion SIT. Or do we know if we can now see that in 2001, 2002 "postmasters" were created to create tycoons and similar ones, but only at that time did they get their names and surnames. It was then hidden, it was said, then it was a national interest, then these things were created, today they were only revealed. And given what our esteemed colleague, who was also a participant, Mr Squeakle, and what he has done from his commission, what he has been saying for quite some time now, it can also somehow convince us of what will happen if he gets that role again if he wins the elections. He has declared for a year now, he has calmed down a bit that our public finances will fall apart if pensioners continue to receive as much money as they do now, if there is still so much money for pensioners, if such a pension adjustment is to be made to pay as it is now. This clearly shows that it is likely that pensioners will be the first ones to feel the new power in turn to be the kind one with whom they can rule differently. Such a way of ruling is different for you to take away pensioners, as he's been saying all year. He's been talking about this all year. This is said not to have been wrong for the first time, nor for the second time, nor for the tenth time, nor for the 50th time was he wrong. But it's a way of thinking about how he's going to rule it. And given how many cases there are in this report of such management, such sales, such correspondence sales of the most prominent companies, without the supervisory decision or without the decision of the board of directors of large companies, then we are fully aware of what can be expected of us in the future. I will support these conclusions that this commission has reached on the basis of the material it has processed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Pojbich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u141	Dear President! Colleagues and colleagues! I will strongly support the Commission's proposed conclusions. But, of course, first of all, because I don't have much time left, I'm going to try to quote what Mr Stanislav Kovac wrote in Finance today, and he wrote: "Capitalism began in 1990. At a recent extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the concentration of Slovenian capital, the politician Cvikl made a mockery of the fact that the privatisation process only started in August 2005 with the sale of state ownership in Mercator. The truth is the opposite. The privatisation began in 1990 with Markovič's company law. In the period 1995-2006 alone, however, the state funds of the Court and Kad, according to the above-mentioned assembly report, sold together ownership shares in as many as 2.447 companies." That's amazing information. This information has certainly not been heard by any Slovenian citizen until today. And then this respected Mr Stanislav Kovac continues: "Before 2005, the sale of the property of Kad and Soda was made mostly imprudently without public bidding..." and so on. So we can imagine exactly how these sales were then made. These sales took place under the table. And to substantiate what Mr Kovac wrote here with the following information: Loss of Kad and Sod in the sale of Lek’s stakes at risk, because according to the definition of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia did not recover the highest purchase, when he made a loss of 137 billion tolars by selling the stake in Lek. I speak in Tolars. The Court made a loss of 103 billion tolars by selling the stake in Lek. If we calculate this together in euros, it's about a little more than a billion euros. Can any of you imagine what this means, in just one company? We are talking about shares in 2,447 companies. These numbers are amazing. And I am sure that there is no Slovenian citizen and citizen to be surprised at this data. These data are recorded. This information was written down by people who know things. And I'm sure this data indicates that Jankovich, Šroti, Rigelnik, did not happen for free, and he would not have listed these names and surnames. I think and I'm sure there's been huge damage to state property. And it is absolutely right and it has recently come to the top of the leadership of this country by a political group that has a different perspective on this area. And for that money I was talking about earlier, it would be possible to buy 10,000 apartments in the city alone. [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Does he want a word with the proposer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! I must say that because of the content itself and because of the constant presence, I wanted to be present all the time that I have succeeded, so I left that regular meal, which is called lunch, but this is the least that I have left behind at this time, that I wanted right, fair and, above all, to bring things to a close. I am kind of pleased that we have managed this together, so I thank all those members who participated in the parliamentary commission of inquiry for the sale of Kad and Sod State shares, so that we have reached the desired goal together. However, I am truly sorry and express deep disappointment to the Slovenian public that what has happened in a democratic country and in a democratic debate in the Slovenian Parliament should not have happened. When it comes to key issues when dealing with key substantive treatments when we are talking about damage to state property, some representatives represented in the Slovenian Parliament take the time to leave this Parliamentary Chamber because they do not want to, do not want to face facts, the findings of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, both in the SD and in Zares, and the LDS do not want to participate in the vote. I am truly sorry, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this is a legal and legitimate decision they make and, as such, I also accept and understand. With the specific numbers that you have calculated, these numbers are not taken just like that and are not collected anywhere. These figures and concrete calculations follow from the documentation kept by the parliamentary investigative commission in as many as two iron cabinets. It is difficult to draw as many as possible a few kilograms of this material, so I am sure that if we had more time, we could lead to some more important findings and some important results. Let me conclude with these words that it is precisely the work of this parliamentary commission of inquiry, which I wanted to conduct properly and honestly, which has also given many institutions, representatives of institutions in the Republic of Slovenia to think in this way that what has happened in the past, and what the coalition in the National Assembly has also supported with the adoption of concrete laws, is also coming to the fore what we have seen in this recent period: the arrest of some individuals who can see or can see their own image in the content of this report. The damage to state property is at the expense of many Slovenes and Slovenes who are not innocent and not indebted, but they must pay it either with low wages in various companies, where the concentration of capital is carried out in order to exploit and squeeze as much as possible this impoverished Slovenian paradise, or tomorrow or the following days to come to the National Assembly and here to report to this government and to this coalition how nothing has been done to improve the situation in social and other many areas. As I said today, I'm afraid I have to do it again. There's never a score on the start. The results come to the finish line. And each athlete knows exactly if he will perform his game well with the ability of his body and his powers, place it at a distance or in a time that he must overcome. Thus, this coalition and this government have taken up time, which they also want to bring to a proper and fair conclusion. And once again, I believe that many regret to face the facts when they see concrete results, the positive results of the good work of this coalition and this government. Of course, what has been said many times today at the expense of the electorate and the electorate will be judged in one way or another. Let's not be too quick, let's not be impatient until the election date. Let us leave this to the people, with our proper and fair work, because our proper and fair work, which is reflected also through the content of the report of the parliamentary commission of inquiry on the sale of Kad and Sod shares, is somehow this transparency, this persistence and this will, and the desire to bring things to an end, to an end, is reflected in all this image. And if someone has recently said in the construction sense of surrendering the tunnel that this is a project that is infamous in the sense that projects cannot be led, then I am convinced that the content of this report is, in this case, an example of how parliamentary investigative committees should be led to arrive at the contents of the final report in due time. The final report was also adopted unanimously at the 23rd meeting and I am pleased that we have been able to address the content of this report today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The proposed decision will be in line with the timing of the meeting. Please, Mr. Cernač, is this a procedural procedure? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u145	Yeah. In the framework of the amendments, we have received a proposal from the Really Group on the proposal for conclusions on this report.Despite the fact that the Group of Members is obstructing today's meeting or this point, I think it would be right and fair, given that we could not discuss this proposal in the context of the report debate, to put the amendment to the conclusions in debate and to give us the time remaining for this debate evenly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u146	I don't think this proposal is an amendment. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Request for completion of the parliamentary investigation procedure. [[...]] For now, that's my decision. This concludes the debate. The proposed decision will be decided in half an hour in accordance with the meeting’s time frame, which will be at 17.35. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 5.35 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u147	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda - discusses the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. You have received a review of the amendments on the bench, so you have them in front of you. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, amendments 2 and 3 are irrelevant. Mr Mag has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Gnyardsich. Does anyone else want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? [[No, no, ……]] Here you go, Mr. Mag. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Our Group still hopes that the majority will be supported by an amendment that offers more than the amended law contained in the second reading on the Committee. It is likely that many people have overlooked the fact that, despite improved coordination twice a year, which is a correction and contribution after the introduction of this law, it remains highly likely that the material position of all recipients of transfers will deteriorate dramatically in the coming years compared to all others whose rights will be elevated in line with wage growth. In doing so, it is not insignificant to say that unfortunately we have not been able to reach a compromise in order to harmonise the transfers paid to the State budget in the way the proposal was adopted by the Committee and that all those rights that are a matter of unemployment insurance, health insurance and pension and disability insurance should be aligned with pension growth. This compromise has not been reached, and therefore we think it is still better that it all be aligned with the growth of pensions which are still lagging behind in the growth of gross wages. In this way, there would be a hope that there will be no material deterioration of some half a million citizens, which follows from an existing solution that is better than the previous one, but which will certainly last for several years. And in this case, interventions into the system and into social peace will be necessary with re-payments or other corrections to the law, which, of course, the Government has already done after the initial amendment of the Transfer Coordination Act 2006 when it turns out that the matter has gone too far and in the wrong direction. We think it's right for this amendment to be supported. In this way, we would fight the rise of poverty on the one hand, and on the other hand there is no reason to stop economic growth at any time in years, or if this caused serious problems in the area of public finances, so that this matter could not be corrected. At this stage, when poverty is quite substantial and when the material situation has deteriorated, it is better that this amendment of ours is supported and I still count on it to succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 33. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the second amendment of the Lip Group of Ambassadors to Article 1. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 3 is irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 39. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the third amendment to Article 1 of the DeSUS Group. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. When the amendment was not supported, which we believe in the DeSUS Group should be supported because it would return what was once taken from the social beneficiaries, we propose another compromise solution, which also takes into account what the Government has proposed. This amendment takes into account the government requirement that all transfers be coordinated in the same way. And this amendment makes it possible. What it takes more than the government is just to settle back. To account for what was lost during the flight. And that is what I think we have to do to make sure that we are retired, that we will return to those who are disabled, to those who are on sick leave and to all those who are recipients of social transfers, what they are losing over the year because of inflation. We propose that this amendment, the third amendment to Article 1, be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 34. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the amendment of the Lipa Group of Members to Article 2. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 21 votes against 38. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 38.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. In the second reading, the proposed amendments were not adopted; we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, Mr. Willy Rezman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u152	Thank you very much again. I hope that now, however, one day, the river that says that the third will be happy to go. Let me remind you that, after the government has somehow been overly upset to harmonise the way transfers are coordinated, it has failed in October and that those who voted in favour of this law in Parliament have made a huge mistake. This mistake is being corrected all the time, and it also corrects it, but not all in the same way. Much of those receiving social transfers are discriminated against. And with this law, we are trying to correct precisely that the government has discriminated and is not prepared, in particular the two main coalition parties, to correct this error that has been wronged. We estimate that what the Government has said last, namely that our bill supports that it is prepared from the budget to provide 16 million and other cashiers with an additional 9 million for the recipients of social transfers, that the Government supports this, is a recognition of our efforts that now for the third time our attempt has given birth to success. We are disappointed, however, that a large part of the Members and Members of the National Assembly are not prepared to return everything that has been taken away and that the proposal of the DeSUS Group is thus halving. It thus halves the rights of those who are eligible recipients of social assistance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We are voting on the law as a whole. There are 60 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda for which the SD, Zares and LDS groups announced the obstruction. Ended item 2 of the agenda - deals with the Investigative Commission reports to establish the political responsibility of public function holders in relation to alleged damage to state property in the sale of shares of Capital Company d.d. and Slovenian compensation companies d.d [[....]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Please, if you'll allow me to proceed! in companies, in such a way as to cover the investigation of all sales which are contested in terms of compliance with the laws and regulations and in terms of transparency and economy, by means of a proposal for a decision. [[...]] However, before we proceed with this point, I would like to tell you that, given that the Group of Members has made a written procedural proposal that you have on the bench, and which in fact requires the completion of the parliamentary investigation procedure, we must also take a decision on this proposal. If this proposal were adopted, then we cannot continue with the agenda or consider and decide on the proposal for a decision by the Commission of Inquiry. Since no one is present from the parliamentary group, I am putting this procedural proposal to the vote. There are 46 Members and Members present, for 6, for 36. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 36.]] I find that the procedural proposal is not adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 44 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is inconclusive, so we will re-vote the proposal for a decision. We are voting on the decision of the investigative commission proposed by the assembly. I'm guessing the National Assembly is open for a second time. We'll have the vote again in 10 minutes at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-02-SDZ4-Izredna-38.ana.u154	Dear Members and Members. We continue to try to decide on the proposal for a decision by the Commission of Inquiry. This is the third time we've decided. The vote is under way. There are 46 Members and Members present, 37 votes against none. [[The vote was 37.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 38th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you. Good night.
