ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 39th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mrs Maria Possonec and Mrs Marjetka Uhan by 1300 hours. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE PERSONAL CHANGE OF THE PART OF THE INSTRUMENTS TO WHICH THE REFERRED PERSONAL PERSONS ARE REFERRED. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Mr. Rezman, what do you want? Do you have a procedural question? Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u2	Procedural proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, just before the president closed yesterday's session, I asked for a procedural hearing. And he missed me, so I'm announcing it today. My proposal is that the vote on the laws be carried out in the manner that has been announced in writing twice. And as was once orally amended, that is, when we Members were not in the Chamber and a rapid assessment was made that those who voted in favour of the Transfer Law were not in the Chamber. I have before me an announcement of the agenda which speaks of yesterday's vote on the laws that we discussed on Wednesday following the conclusion of the 3rd item of the agenda. We haven't reached agenda three yet. Neither will we today, and it is likely that the agenda will have to be changed so that we decide next week if this is the case today. So this was about playing and overcoming what was foretold in writing. Then another instruction came to the table, which states that those agenda items discussed on 21.5.2008 will be voted on half an hour after the end of the 4th agenda item or today after 3 p.m. But there was a vote yesterday. When the hall wasn't full. At a time when Members had other obligations and were therefore unable to vote. The first announcement also included an additional opportunity to vote on the decision, which was due to take place after 10 p.m. yesterday, on the basis of consultations between the leaders of the groups of Members. That didn't happen either. But the vote was taken half an hour earlier. So even those of us who came to the vote too quickly missed out. I therefore ask that this procedural proposal be adopted to repeat this vote. As foretold. Otherwise, we will consider this manipulation of Members who were not in office in order to be able to decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Rezman, for your procedural proposal. I'd like to say that yesterday after 9:00, the president of the National Assembly held a meeting. I know he also said what his purpose was with regard to the agenda and the vote, and also asked if everyone was in favour of it. He asked all those Members who were then present at the National Assembly. I can't make my own decision about your procedural proposal today. We have a agenda that was scheduled and adopted yesterday. It is said that the agenda with the items of yesterday's session and today's session. I therefore propose that you submit this procedural proposal to the College of the National Assembly. We're moving on to the agenda. I have already said what law we will discuss in agenda item 2. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Andrey Bajuk, Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up a proposal for a law which takes into account the sixth paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on the Property Transformation of Insurance 1 provides that those shares, corresponding to the proportion of natural persons in the non-nominated capital of the insurance undertaking and whose owner is a special law of Capitalska d.d., shall be transferred to the property of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office with the sole purpose of providing additional funds for compulsory pension insurance. This law lays down the way in which natural persons will exercise the right to own the Insurance Office of Triglav. The divestment procedure referred to in Article 1 of this Law shall be governed by the rules governing the disposal of state-owned assets. The funds made available may, however, be used exclusively for the further management of financial assets. The return is the direct income of the PIZ. The ownership of insurance companies began in 2000 when the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Law on the Property Transformation of Insurance Companies, which dealt with issues relating to the transformation of social capital in insurance companies. The Constitutional Court suspended the enforcement of the contested provisions on 18.5.2000. Finally, the law repealed completely on 19 April 2001 and stated that the designation of beneficiaries means that they acquire the right to own property acquired on undeclared social capital in insurance undertakings and not the right of ownership to those shares. The determination of the method of ownership, however, is the legislator's responsibility. On the basis of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, a new Law on Property Transformation of Insurance Companies, ZLPZ1, was adopted, which is also the basis for the adoption of the law before you. Under this law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has issued two decisions in which it has identified shares of unspecified capital belonging to both legal and natural persons. Following the implementation of these government decisions, the Capital Company became the owner of 34.47% of the total unspecified capital of the Triglav Insurance Company. However, it was not allowed to have access to these shares under the law. In the light of the above, the sixth paragraph of Article 21 of this Law, which provided for a 12-month period from the entry into force of the law for the adoption of a special law, remained unfulfilled within the prescribed time limit, which would set out the criteria by which natural persons would be entitled to the shares of the pension insurance undertaking or pension insurance policy. The previous government did not carry out this within the prescribed time limit. In 2005, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia appointed the Advisory Group in Article 21, paragraph 6, which concluded that, for more than 750 thousand persons of the Triglav Insurance Community from 1990, individual procedures for determining their eligibility to the rights referred to in Article 21, paragraph 6. The basic reasons for analysing certain alternative solutions of beneficiaries referred to in this Article 21 and concluded that they cannot provide accounting records in the archives of the Triglav Insurance Community in 1990. They are not perfect enough to allow the current Zavarovans Triglav d.d. from these records it is credible to establish the natural persons and their entitlement to own capital held by the Capital Company. In view of the above facts, it would not be possible for individual insurers to request or expect the same evidence from legal persons. Which would mean that these persons would be practically excluded from ownership. Procedures should include the heirs of the beneficiaries of those days, which would greatly extend the range of persons involved in the proceedings. This would mean longer and more complicated procedures. However, the number of possible judicial disputes arising from these proceedings would also increase. For the above reasons, this individualisation of the entitlements of natural persons is virtually not feasible. At least not at a reasonable time and at a proportionate cost. In line with the above-mentioned proposals of the Advisory Group, the Government proposes to adopt a law to transfer shares to the property of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. However, on behalf of and on behalf of ZPIZ, the shares are managed by the Capital Company. The law further provides that shares may be withdrawn on a proposal from the competent authority of the ZPIZ and provided that both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly so agree. However, the recovery procedure shall be conducted in accordance with the rules governing the procedures for the disposal of state-owned assets. For example, the proposed law provides that the resources available may only be used for the further management of financial assets, thereby achieving more diversified and safer profitability. The annual return on the management of these funds shall be transferred to the account of the PIZ. Let me finish. The key solutions to the law are therefore to apply the rights of ownership by natural persons through ownership of the unspecified capital share by the PPIZ, the PPIZ to provide a new additional source of financing, to ensure long-term sustainability of the pension fund by diversifying the portfolio and reducing risks, and to finally respect the rules of the Public Finance Act in the management of assets. As a public institution, ZPIZ receives substantial funds each year in the form of transfers from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Bojan Starman to present the report of the Committee. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good bye to all of you! At its 39th meeting, on 7.5.2008, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law on the conversion of the share of insurance undertakings to which natural persons submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. We have also obtained an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service. We have also received the opinion of the Council of State of 24.4.2008, which supported the proposed law. However, it has drawn up a specific comment on Article 2. These comments are taken into account in the amendment tabled by the coalition groups to this Article. The proposed law was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of the Retired on 25.4.2008, to Article 2. The meetings were attended by a representative and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service. It has been stated from the applicants that the proposed law provides that shares corresponding to the proportion of natural persons in the non-normalised capital of the insurance undertaking and whose holder is, until the adoption of the special law, the Capital Company of Pension and Disability Insurance, CAD, shall be transferred to the property of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office with the sole purpose of providing additional funds for compulsory pension and disability insurance. KAD manages shares on behalf and on behalf of the ZPIZ account. The law below allows shares to be withdrawn on a proposal from the competent authority of the ZPIZ and provided that both the Government and the National Assembly agree on this by adopting an annual decision on the sales programme of the assets. The Legislative and Legal Service further explained that the rule of Article 90 of the Constitution and Article 25 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, that it is not permissible within one year of the publication of the decision at the referendum to adopt a substantively identical law as rejected in the referendum, is different in the essential element. Thus, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, it is also not identical and it is possible to adopt this law. Most members expressed their support for the law and the proposal. The amendment for a new Article 2a was adopted in accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure in the light of the Legislative and Legal Service to Article 1 of the Law submitted in accordance with Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure. Two other amendments were expressed during the hearing, two amendments to Articles 1 and 2 which were not supported by the Committee. However, the Committee defined itself to the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners to Article 2 and adopted it. In view of this, it was prepared in accordance. Then we voted on all the articles together. In accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure, a proposal for a law which we propose to the National Assembly to adopt has been prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Anton Rop on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, everyone! Dear Members and Members! Today we have before us the proposal for a law on the property transformation of the proportion of insurance undertakings to which natural persons are entitled. The essential content of this law is the conclusion of the property transformation of insurance companies in our country. In such a way that shares corresponding to the share of natural persons in the non-nominated capital of the insurance undertaking and of which the holder is a KAD until the law is passed, shall be transferred to the ZPIZ with the sole purpose of providing additional funds for pension and disability insurance. The National Assembly on Law, which governs this area, has now ruled for the fourth time. It was first considered when it was decided last year when the ruling coalition, on a proposal from the Government, adopted the Law on the Ownership of Undeclared Capital, which would allow for the immediate privatisation of this capital. This was opposed by the State Council, just as the opposition and the profession had opposed it. And that's why we decided the second time on this subject at the veto of the State Council. However, despite the veto of the National Council, despite comments and warnings and opposition from members of the opposition parliamentary groups, the Government and its coalition in the National Assembly did not wish to include in the law a very simple and simple protector, which would prevent the sale of 35% of the capital of the Triglav Insurance Company, and would only use shares or entitlements from the management of these shares for long-term pension fund financing. That is why we were very clear against the law at the time, and we supported the State Council in its desire to sign a legislative referendum. If the government then listened to the arguments and meant seriously, of course there would be no referendum. And we would have made a decision long ago and decided on this subject. The results of the referendum are, however, very clear. 72% of all voters and voters who voted in the referendum voted against the original government law. And the message of the referendum to be followed is clear. Voters and voters oppose the sale of state property, as has been the case in Slovenia lately, and do not want to make the capital available to the government. However, the government and the ruling coalition, in the last, third attempt to regulate the ownership of unspecified capital, once again opposed the legal system because the law was then proposed by the State Council. So, four times, the National Assembly must decide on this issue in order for the Government and the ruling coalition to finally listen to the arguments and views of the profession, opposition, the State Council and, finally, the will of citizens and citizens of all Slovenia. In the SD Group, we find that, like this law, which is proposed before us, ensures that at least 35% of the stake of the Triglav Insurance Company will no longer be in the hands of the current Government, but the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. So also in the hands of the social partners and representatives of pensioners. We are convinced that this has already ensured greater transparency and rationality of governance. However, we believe that it is possible to improve the solution proposed by the mother labour body by taking into account the discussion. In particular, in relation to that part of the law, which defines the purpose of using annual net return from the management of transferred shares to the ZPIZ in a way that will actually provide additional funds for the ZPIZ or for Slovenian pensioners and pensioners. As long as the current solution, such as in the proposal for a law, remains, the additional resources to be received annually by PPIZ will result in an exclusive reduction of the budget source of PPIZ funding. In other words, the law, as it is now written, would have the same effect for pensioners and pensioners as if it had been written that all current adoptions were incorporated directly into the budget. So no effect, no effect for Slovenian pensioners and pensioners. We therefore propose an amendment setting out the purpose of the use of these additional funds to be received by PIZ. We propose that they be dedicated exclusively on purpose. In order to provide additional funding for the health care of pensioners. This means financing additional health programmes or improving the accessibility of health services for pensioners. We are convinced that with the adoption of this supplement, the law would be substantially more specifically directed towards those who are the only ones to whom it can be directed, Slovenian pensioners and pensioners. We propose to adopt both the law and the improvements together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Friday has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good afternoon! In the debate on this law or the previous law, the LDS has all the time stated that there are better solutions than were proposed in the law that later went to the referendum. And this law that we are considering today improves certain chapters of this area or this legislation. And that's why LDS doesn't oppose him. And we agree with this, with this intention that the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance becomes the legal holder of the shares of the Insurance Company Triglav, which will be transferred to the KAD, which is the beneficiary so far. Since the proposed law in one element is substantially different from the one we discussed earlier, in the previous period and which went to the referendum, and because it is not a substantively identical law as it was rejected at the referendum, we also consider it not to be a violation of the referendum will. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the basic objective of the law, which is to complete the property transformation of insurance or insurance companies while ensuring the eligibility of the management of this capital to the widest possible range of beneficiaries. According to the LDS, the transfer of the share of the Insurance Company Triglav to the PPIZ makes sense. It does allow for an investment that will help maintain the long-term stability of the pension fund. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are aware that the long-term sustainability of public finances is threatened by the ageing of the population. It is therefore appropriate to transfer this capital to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. However, there are still some doubts about this law and we will list them. This is because it is doubtful that the law, which therefore proposes that, on behalf of and on behalf of the PPIZ, the shares of the Triglav Insurance Company be managed by the KAD. This and this, as proposed by the law, means that the PIC in fact will not have any real word in the management of shares by KAD. In the event that ZPIZ wants to sell shares, and provided that both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly agree, the sale of the shares of the Insurance Company Triglav is possible. However, since KAD actually manages the insurance company on behalf of ZPIZ, it will then directly decide on the selling price and the buyer of the sold shares of the Insurance Company Triglav. So this is the fear that is still present in this marriage. The law also raises questions about the provision allowing for annual net profit from asset management to be transferred to the PSIZ account. In other words. When the shares of the ZPIZ are sold, the value above the amount sold will be transferred to the pension fund. And by doing so, there is a real possibility or a risk that the value of the property will fall. It is also assessed and there is a risk that the Government, in any case, will reduce the liabilities of the budget for the PSI because of such a way of strengthening the pension fund. A typical example that this practice is and that this practice can also be an example for future ones is the functioning of the Government and its supervisors in the case of Telekom, when they pay all dividend profits. This makes the state budget rich. In the case of Telekom, for €43 million and €44 million respectively. Such a danger exists, of course, also with the funds from the PSI. These assets from the insurance company that are going to the STIZ. Such a distribution of profits in the case of Telekom means the financial exhaustion of Telekom and probably the inhibition of more rapid development of Telekom Slovenije. Therefore, we ask ourselves: Could this practice, which was described, also happen to the Triglav Insurance Company, because the state via the Soda and via Kato will actually decide on the brokerage in the Triglav Insurance Company, because when is the manager of the shares of the Triglav Insurance Company? And according to our opinion, Kad will primarily politically set up supervisors, who - the question is - will take into account the opinion of the rightful owner, i.e. in this case STIZ. With the amendment, these ferrets and those doubts are over. As a result, the LDS will support the amendment and, if adopted, also support the law. However, we believe that it is necessary to think seriously about this and to adopt a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A nice greeting to the representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the proposed law, since the transfer of shares to which individual beneficiaries of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance are entitled after the decision of the Constitutional Court will finally solve the problem that should have been resolved long ago. The proposed solution is also good because it will be easier to plan its business and development with a defined status of important part of the ownership of the Insurance Company Triglav in the future. The adoption of this law will also bring to a large extent the will of the electorate expressed in the referendum. We also agree with the legislator's intention to use the income from the ownership of shares transferred to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance as an additional income to the pension fund, thereby reducing the expenditure on pensions from the state budget slightly. In this way, it certainly covers the interest of a large part of those individual beneficiaries who are eligible for the shares of the Triglav Insurance Company. However, we cannot agree with the proposal put forward by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats in the form of an amendment to the Committee on Finance, in order to fund the health care of pensioners with a net return on the management of the transferred state financial assets. This funding is already fully regulated in the law. There is no need for additional funding, as any funding missing is derived from the State budget. The law also states that the shares of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance will be managed by the Capital Society and also by the way the shares are made available. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that there are sufficient fuses in place with regard to the availability of shares and that there is no fear that shares will be available beyond the interests of the beneficiaries. That is why we support the law in this work. Several of us in our Group are disturbed by the fact that the shares have been transferred to the property of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute and to the management of the Capital Society, which will result in additional costs. However, we will support the law. In short, the New Slovenia Group will support the Law on Property Conversion of Shares of Insurance that are eligible for the benefit of natural persons. Because, after a long search and many proposals, we have found a solution that is acceptable to most beneficiaries and is also good for the insurance company and, last but not least, for the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, soon after the adoption of the Property Change Act at the referendum, we proposed that a law be drawn up to transfer the shares of the Insurance Company Triglav to the ZPIZ, which would allow the long-term stability of the pension treasury. We have also proposed that the possible withdrawal of shares should be secured by a decision in the National Assembly. We have before us a proposal for a law which, with a view to ensuring the widest possible consensus on the availability of assets and on the professional and transparent implementation of these assets, provides that all procedures for the disposal of this property shall be governed by rules governing the possession of the State's financial assets. This means that, in the event of the confiscation of property, the ZPIZ would be bound to conduct the sale process in accordance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act and the Sales Regulation and other forms of disposal of state and municipality assets. All the procedures defined by those rules are extremely detailed and well established in practice. The basic conditions for the disposal of financial assets under the Public Finance Act and the Regulation are the placement of assets in the Annual Ordinance on a Programme for the Sale of Financial Property adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government, the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a law submitted by the Government lays down the obligation of the shareholder of insurance companies, namely STIZ, to maintain a shareholding that must not be less than 25% plus one share. This would preserve the Slovenian character of the Insurance Company Triglav, its effective management and its long-term development, due to its strategic importance and long-term interest. The proposal for a law submitted by the Government also provides for a tax ruling that resources from holding shares can only be used for further management. In order to comply with the principle of cost-effectiveness and efficiency in the management of public funds, the additional resources thus created shall be allocated to beneficiaries of pension and disability insurance. In view of everything that is said, the members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law with great joy and satisfaction. Almost to the point of precision, it summarizes the already expressed views of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, in the parliamentary group we have been monitoring all the different options for how to own unnominated capital. And for the public it is necessary to say and repeat that we supported at least two of these in the DeSUS Group. The one who was a referendum and who failed at the referendum. We also support what is now on the table. We have certain concerns that we will express. In principle, we also supported that version of the world, which was not real because it did not have enough support in Parliament. Each of these has, we consider, also these options, had its faults, and for the DeSUS Group, it is still the most appropriate last one that we now have in our consideration and which we believe we will also accept. The substance of the requests made by the Member Group and the party DeSUS in this regard has been the whole time that this property should be transferred to the pension fund to the ZPIZ in order to make it available to them. Or, in other words, the state raises its hands from this property. And that all the revenue provided for in this Title should be earmarked to ensure as long as possible the safety of the pension fund, pensioners and pensioners who are beneficiaries of this Title. It's the interests of the current pensioners. It is also about the interests of current employees. So an active population that will sooner or later be among the retired. Therefore, we feel satisfied with this law is the interest of all. That's also why we support him. There were three variants. If we appoint one referendum, another variant of the State Council and a third variant of the National Assembly or Government, then the following is the case. The first option envisaged ownership of KAD, which would probably not be best given the estimates that we have more or less uniform about KAD, which is poorly managed, has bad returns and does not have much confidence in the Slovenian public. The second option, the version of the State Council provides for the transfer of ownership to the STD. Just like this version that we are explaining today. There's a difference in management. There are no special differences. There is a difference as to the rights of use. In the first variant, in the DeSUS Group, we proposed the eligibility to dispose, to disperse this property, to portfolio investments, to optimize profits and to increase long-term security. The second version of the State Council was similar. It also has the right to a distinction that is very important that it provided that it has the right of access to the PPE. So the owner who was supposed to. Unlike the first option where the Capital Society is supposed to have the right of disposal. And the third option that we are talking about today is once again intended to have actually the STIZ. But it's only seeming. He has only the right to propose. Later, the Government and the National Assembly shall decide on this through the procedure provided for in this bill. So it's politics again. Politics, the state has not withdrawn from the decision-making process. This is also a fundamental flaw that we now see in this law. Even if this is not amended, we will uphold the law. But it will remain as it is now with the excessive influence of the state. The Government's argument was that the State had the right to influence. For he gives about 1/4 of the $4 billion that the pensioner spends annually on his business. However, through the composition of the world, the institution has a significantly greater impact than 1/4, as far as its relative contribution to the pension fund is concerned. That is why we believe that this influence is already strong enough and that the country should withdraw from it. As regards the relationship between the pension fund and the state budget, it is likely that this is a system of bonded containers. And that it will indeed be possible, that more than the pension register will have its own resources, there will be less resources needed from the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear President! Therefore, a transfer corresponding to the undeclared share of shares of natural persons shall be transferred to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. This is the basic purpose of this law. We support this purpose in the Slovenian National Party. Transfer of the share of the Insurance Office Triglav to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance is a guarantee and a permanent source of income actually to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. We know that's kind of an emergency. And by ensuring this in terms of transfer, we will also do the referendum will, which has clearly been expressed in the referendum. Therefore, the conclusion of the property transformation or ownership of the Triglav Insurance Company is not disputed in our opinion. But you could say that the disputed beginnings of the property of the Triglav Insurance Company. We could talk about it in a lot of ways, long and wide. We know that the shares of the insurance company have also been purchased by mortgages that have not yet been purchased. And today we have quite a few very wealthy people - even the former director is among them - who have a large market share of this insurance company. But this, of course, does not interest this government or the previous government. And, as has already been said, it is essential that a transparent conclusion is properly ensured. 35% of capital transfer can be disputed unless the amendment of the Social Democrats is taken into account, which, in our view, is very well-intentioned. Because this will ensure the transfer to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance also in terms of the share of profits that this insurance company will generate over the years. We know that no insurance company has ever gone bankrupt with us and that it is a profitable business. So it is also likely that the increase or new added value will be recorded here as a percentage. Why it is not a direct institution for pension and disability insurance, but a question that is not so important. Because without the consent of the Government and the National Assembly, shares cannot be estranged or sold to anyone. Nor will we oppose this, although it would be the most transparent and most legal and most correct, if we are already transferring something to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, that we will also transfer it a hundred percent later so that, in fact, this legal person can dispose of it and, in fact, there is no problem where dividends or profits come from. In this context, it is possible to think in this context, in order to improve further, that we do not have a problem with who will be estranged tomorrow, which could actually be a financial solution for the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. I believe that this amendment of the Social Democrats will also be confirmed today, to the extent that, of course, the purpose of the Government is serious and even to the extent that there is a sincere desire and a fair purpose for the Institute of Disability and Pension Insurance to provide a permanent source of funding. As has already been said, in the Slovenian National Party we will also support this proposal for a law on the property transformation of the share of insurance companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled on 22.5.2008. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Mag. Squeakle, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We propose an amendment to Article 2 to ensure consistency between the content of the law, which provides additional funds for the pension fund. This is the reason why pension funds are actually running out of funds to ensure adequate health care for pensioners. We therefore estimate that if the people at the referendum have decided that the Insurance Offices of Triglav will not be left at the disposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the property of the Insurance Office of Triglav will be locked into the pension register, then it is only right to guarantee higher rights from this title. It is illogical that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to propose a Law on the Property Conversion of the Share of Insurancees to which natural persons are entitled. At the same time, in the state budget balance, it reduced the transfer from the state budget to the pension fund by EUR 30 million. To put it simply, natural persons who have been entitled to a stake in the Triglav Insurance Office are now making it easier for the Minister of Finance to close the state budget. We say, if we follow the intentions of the referendum, that the Government cannot be freely available and that people are the property beneficiaries of the stakes in the Triglav Insurance Company. That those who are these property beneficiaries and all of us become or would actually become beneficiaries of this law when we are pensioners, that we have an additional right to do so, and that right is defined in the amendment we are proposing. The text of the amendment, which reads as follows, is that the last paragraph of the third paragraph simply states that we are assessing that the additional funds under the Title of Insurance Company Triglav are used for the purposes of financing the health care of pensioners. We believe that this would also make Articles 1 and 2 consistent. Without the adoption of this amendment, the law will not be consistent with one another. In particular, if a state budget balance is adopted, which reduces pension funds by around EUR 30 million. We therefore propose to the MPs of the National Assembly that you support the amendment and thus ensure the consistent realization of the will of 72% of voters in the referendum last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Shirtzel, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Allow me to define ourselves until the amendment proposed by the Group of Social Democrats. In this regard, I would, of course, like to point out that the security of pensions is fully ensured under the PSI. In accordance with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, Article 205 already specifies expenditure on compulsory insurance. These also explicitly include contributions to compulsory health insurance for pensioners and beneficiaries of disability benefits. Article 204 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act lists these contributions by name. These are land purchase contributions under the Land Maintenance Protection Act and the income from dividends, interest and other revenues and transfers from the State budget. However, in the event of a shortage of resources to meet its obligations, the Republic of Slovenia shall provide the necessary resources from the State budget. In doing so, I would like to say that the purpose of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Share of Insurance Companies to which natural persons are entitled is already explained in Article 1. In particular, provide funds for compulsory pension and disability insurance. Since these funds also include a contribution to compulsory health insurance, the Government considers that this proposed amendment is not necessary because it is actually already incorporated in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Boyan Starman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, once again a good-bye! Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will, of course, support the law. We are very pleased that this long-term process of completing the ownership of insurance companies has ended and that this part of the assets that have been reserved is this share of the insurance companies in order to allocate the purchase to the place that will be most needed in the future. This provides additional funds for pension insurance. With regard to the amendment, I say we define ourselves against it. Because we believe that there will be enough time to find a way to allocate and share these funds that have been transferred or will be acquired for the purpose of pension insurance. It is not said that this proposal is true. There's probably going to be a whole bunch of options and suggestions that can be different. It is essential that these additional funds are provided. Above all, I would like to say that this is a start - even on our committee, this has been said, to create certain additional pension funds that we will urgently need in the future. One of them was a long time ago. It's Kad. The funds from this fund must be allocated exclusively to the pension fund. It will probably be necessary to jointly form this additional pension fund under the auspices of the State, or under the auspices of the PPIZ, and also to lay down rules for the game, what is the role of this fund, what are the obligations and how to design a policy to cover the pension fund. I think this should end the function or transformation of Kada. All together, transfer and form a common pension fund, which will then lay down the exact rules of the game that such fund has and what will be financed from it. This is mainly because we know that long-term pension funds are not sustainable. It is the desire of all of us, pensioners and others, to contribute to ensuring that we do not get any fractures on this pension pillar, so that we do not get into a situation where we should substantially violate the rights of pensioners. The aim is to achieve, in some ways, an intergenerational and economically justified and economically, that we will have an appropriate compromise here to the satisfaction of both employees and pensioners themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I'll support this amendment myself. I would try to explain with two arguments. So, from the field of health policy guidance that this government is leading. The first thing I'd like to point out is the fact. If we follow the text in the national programme, i.e. the Resolution of the National Health Programme, which states the following, that the ratio between public expenditure and personal expenditure for healthcare from 2008 will be in a relationship which refers to public expenditure as representing 6.37% of GDP, i.e. social gross product, while private expenditure is 2.45%. If we look at the projection, we see that 2013 will fall to 6.28 in public expenditure, while we will see that private expenditure increases to 2.45 per 2.53. We can see that the projection is that private spending on health care will be increased at the expense of public expenditure. Therefore, I think it makes sense that we are today thinking about how to provide health care, which is an essential component of overall social protection in the future. Secondly, what I would like to point out is that this Government has presented a programme to the weakest, that is, to the weakest, to release the payment of supplementary voluntary health insurance to the weak. Since this was not the whole mandate, the draft budget stated that we would do so in the second half of 2008 and to this end allocate 4 million euros. Today I have a budget balance that deletes these funds. And in the government's explanation, it's about savings. It therefore seems to me with two additional arguments in view of the social situation of pensioners, which has been heard so far through the representatives of pensioners' unions, that there are very many who receive pensions below EUR 400 and many who receive pensions below EUR 400 and EUR 500 per month. And as a result of these two arguments, I think it is extremely reasonable today to think about how we will be able to provide health care to these - I would say - socially disadvantaged groups within the framework of the pensioners, that they will be able to have social protection provided and because of these two aspects, given that the orientation, that the provision of health care in the future will require more from their own pockets or that we are not prepared to ensure through the budget that what has been somehow adopted is the political commitment that we will exempt the weakest from payments of supplementary, voluntary health insurance. Of course, it makes sense for us today to think about providing funding from the health care of pensioners also in line with the referendum. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. So today, at this amendment, we are deciding on a very important matter. We decide whether this law, once adopted, will achieve only one or two goals. If adopted as proposed, without this amendment, which is before you, it will actually apply the will of the electorate and electorate in the part where they want and require that this property no longer be managed by the Government, but by the PIZ and the pensioners and pensioners or their representatives. Of course, in this part, marriage is good. At the same time, however, we have a unique opportunity in this law and the possibility of additional resources, which will and will come from the income of these shares, for pensioners and pensioners. Unless this amendment is adopted or any such amendment, then we will not do anything for the pensioners and pensioners at this time and at this time. What can be seen from the budget balance will happen. The transfer from the budget will be reduced to PPIZ and this shortfall will be financed from these funds transferred to PPIZ. This isn't bad public finances and it's fine. Because there will be surplus in the budget. But nothing will be done for the pensioners and the pensioners. In order to be able to achieve what we all want to achieve at this point in time, we have determined the purpose of these funds from this marriage. We believe that we can best achieve this by using these funds for additional health programmes. Not for compulsory insurance, the health insurance referred to by Mr State Secretary. But in order to eliminate the waiting hours for the pensioners. So that the pensioners can get to the specialists immediately and immediately and that we can provide additional funds for them. In Social Democracy, we believe that it is necessary to transfer all the resources of the KAD to the PPIZ in one way or another. Just like we did in the case of the Triglav Insurance Company. If we do this, then we will really provide the means that all waiting periods for all pensioners in Slovenia can be eliminated. If you look at the balance sheet of the Capital Society, then you'll see that it has €1.5 billion in assets at its disposal. Recalculate this to a return that can be realised by KAD at the annual level, and you will reach up to EUR 50 to 100 million that you could provide for pensioners. On purpose. Today we have the opportunity to actually ensure that. And that's all we're suggesting. In short, development funds designed for pensioners here and now and today. That is why, of course, I am asking all of you, and I urge you to support this amendment and make this law a law for the pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Dear President! Retirement is a legal right. It's not something that's been given. We have heard that in this National Assembly. The fact is that pensions alone and social and health care must also be coordinated with increases in living costs and inflation. There are several ways to ensure this. The Government also proposes several ways. However, if we look at the budget itself, it is more stepmotherly to these items. Because in the budget we can see a significant stalemate for this population. And it is precisely this amendment - as has already been said - that we feel good and that this amendment should be supported in the Slovenian National Party. Because he doesn't take anything from anyone. It's a big deal. The fact is that if we are already transferring management rights or some portions of insurance companies that are profitable, then we can do this in a complex and 100 percent. Not just a little bit. The rest is just for the camouflage, so it'll look nice. In short, if we don't do this today, it's all gonna have no effect. We will accept something, which will not have any strategic positive effect or result. Pensioners expect that their life expectancy will be longer, that the state will provide a better way of providing their health services. As has already been said, one of the interlocutors before me stressed that waiting periods are quite long in health care, and in fact this third age period could be regulated in a different way for this population. In terms of a more pleasant stay in the fall of life. And I think that this way of staying for a lot of people who would like to do so is not available because the prices in so-called homes that are in the new building, in what large numbers in Slovenia are not available, because pensions do not reach such a level that individuals can afford it. And because of this, if we are already a social state, as we like to mention, we also have this in Article 2 of the Constitution, we should not forget that with such moves as this - as has already been said, the Slovenian National Party will support the bill - we will also actually listen to those amendments that come from the Government of unacceptable environments, and that we will make this law truly, in our own words, useful or "forced" as people say, in some way also from this law, then we can say, here, and that is what we wanted, and there is no doubt and blinding. By supporting both the amendment and this proposal for a law on the property transformation of the share of insurance companies in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvat Joseph has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representative of the government, distinguished colleague and colleague! With regard to the amendment of colleagues and colleagues from Social Democracy, it is understood that they want to channel the annual net return on asset management more precisely for the purpose of financing pensioners' health care. If we look at Article 1, we estimate in the New Slovenia Group that Article 1 accurately defines the objectives of this law and if I simplify it, if it is implemented, which I estimate will be the sole purpose and sole purpose of this law to provide additional funds for compulsory pension and disability insurance. However, since this includes a contribution to compulsory health insurance, in Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the amendment of the Social Democrats does not bring any new quality and new improvements, so we do not favour it. However, we are pleased to note that this law will finally be passed in this National Assembly with a great consensus, so that the National Assembly will carry out the task that was actually set before this National Assembly long ago in the previous term. However, let me remind ladies and gentlemen and also the Slovenian public that, in my expectation, this law will never happen again in the area of the valuation of the Insurance Office of Triglav. Let me remind you that the first valuation report or the first evaluation report of the Triglav Insurance Company was made in 2003. The report shows that the value of the Triglav Insurance Company per day, 1.1.2001, was estimated at 60.6 billion then tolars. Due to doubts as to the correctness of the assessment of the value of the capital of the Insurance Company Triglav, in 2005 at the beginning of the year the Minister of Finance Dr. Bayuk and consequently the Court requested the verification of the initial valuation. While the then administration of the Triglav Insurance Company had a new higher appreciation, it kept it secret for the incomprehensible reasons, at least for us. And she didn't introduce herself to either Soda or the Ministry of Finance. After checking the valuation of the Insurance Company Triglav received by the Court in March 2006, two years ago, the estimated value of the Insurance Company Triglav per day, 1.1.2001, 121.8 billion tolars. The difference between the initial estimated value of the insurance undertaking and its actual value - resulting from the verification of the original valuation - is obvious and amounts to the current EUR 62 billion or today’s EUR 258 million. This is about one third of the annual highway program. That's enough to refresh your memory. I hope and expect that such stories will never happen again in Slovenia. True, the referendum was successful in the eyes of some. Regrettably, these are also the same, who estimate that it has succeeded, promised the former insurers around 750,000 of them each after €1,200 per hand. No one got that and they won't get it. We are happy to support the marriage. We do not favor the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u34	I regret that the coalition is not in favour of the amendment. By approving the amendment, we would only ensure consistency between Articles 1 and 2. I quote the last paragraph of Article 1: "For the sole purpose of providing additional funds for compulsory pension and disability insurance." In accordance with this text and in accordance with Article 2, DeSUS or Mr Rezman on the Committee proposed an amendment to delete this word "additional". This amendment was not accepted by the coalition. So, are you in favour of keeping the text that says that this law actually provides additional funds? However, what additional funds do we really receive from PIZ? Because if it gets from the contributions of 2 billion and a half euros, if it gets from the state budget a billion and if it now receives an additional 20 million euros from the income of the Insurance Company Triglav, the amount of funds from the state budget will immediately decrease by these 20 million euros. The exact figures are shown from the state budget. That is, according to the current budget, a billion U.S. budget of 151 million is allocated to pensions. With the balance, you are reducing this by 30 million euros. So, you have a classic system of bonded containers - you give more money from the dividends of the Insurance Office of Triglav and you immediately reduce the money from the state budget. Therefore, if you do not accept the amendment, the natural persons who are the property beneficiaries of the charity in the Insurance Office of Triglav make it easier for each current Minister of Finance, Mr Horvat, to your client boss. And it's very easy, you know, to close the state budget by reducing the pension fund. Yesterday or two days ago, we had a discussion here that there is no money in the state budget to increase social transfers or otherwise coordinate social transfers. How come he's not here? Of course it is! Look, you're taking 30 million euros from your pension fund. Leave that money in there. However, it can be earmarked either for additional health care or for different coordination of transfers. Ideally - if the law were adopted yesterday, I am talking about the law of DeSUS. This is why an amendment is proposed, which just wants to harmonise the political will of the people at the referendum. At the referendum, people took the floor. We believe that the insurance company Triglav is ours, not Janez Janša. Yeah, that's how it is. Because he wanted to sell it to the Alliance. Did you see the Alliance go in alone in Slovenia a few days ago because he failed to buy the Triglav Insurance? He's just gonna have bigger investments and so on. A quick, unconscious sale of state property at the referendum was prevented. We had to use an extreme tool to stop it. And people believed they'd get something out of it. Now people, pensioners, are getting nothing out of this because as much as the state budget is now providing them. And now they will provide for themselves instead of the state budget. For that much you spend money in the state budget on other things, I don't know anything, material costs, presidency, the military in Kosovo. Whatever. It doesn't matter. Therefore, Mr. Horvath, colleagues in the coalition, support the amendment. You will be consistent with what you voted on your parent's working body when you rejected the DeSUS amendment. We do not wish them anything but that this law be passed, so that with the amendment we can clearly commit the Minister of Finance to being saved. It is not, however, that we allow the unacceptable amendment to the Minister of Finance, in fact, to make it very easy for him to close the state budget. This Act is therefore not referred to as the Law on the Property Conversion of the Share of Insurancees to which natural persons are entitled, but as the Act on the Reduction of the Contribution of the State Budget to the Pension Treasury in the amount of the annual return of the Insurance Office of Triglav. These are economic facts. Now I'm not a lawyer. That's why I wouldn't go to law school. But this is the economic real title of the law: About the property transformation of the share of insurance companies to which natural persons are entitled. They allow lower funding. This law allows, unless the amendment is adopted, lower funding from the state budget. And the government, who believed or believed that the coalition would support every marriage, including this law, of course consistently proposed a rebalancing that proves it. Item reduced by EUR 30 million. Sir, don't get upset! That's the number. Only two documents should be read at the same time. The balance and the law. However, if you are reading only the law, but you have already written in the law that the government says exactly that: "If there is more from the Insurance Office of Triglav, it will be less from the state budget." It wasn't the will of the referendum. She wasn't. But if you think she was, ask the people. First in the fall elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am relatively satisfied that the debate is on content. The thing about the Alliance was "out." Mr. Squeakl, what you may have said three or four sentences ago is that there is still a lot to read. That's the key. I would suggest we just look at the Pension and Disability Insurance Act together. I believe that the Secretary of State has already cited paragraphs 205 and 4 where expenditure from compulsory insurance is precisely defined and the purpose of which we are speaking in the last sentence of this Article. These include, and include, explicit contributions to compulsory health insurance for pensioners. So, yes, I agree. It needs to be read in an integral way. So, this is a very important law on pension and disability insurance. That's a good thing you said. We have other laws to open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudy Versnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! The main purpose of this law is to distribute the assets of the 1991 insurance companies insured at the Triglav Insurance Company. And as we have seen in the previous major heated debates, the owners were people at the time, younger, older. And today we find that unfortunately some of them are dead. Some are retired, some are still active. And the funds we provide in the pension box or, if I may put it more clearly, in the pension bag come from more than one side. In the past, this was exclusively the two items, the state budget item and secondly, the contributions of active employees. In the case that we now accept it here in the National Assembly, there will also be a difference in this common bag, or dividends, or capital income from a capital company that manages this 35% capital. And of course, that means that the purpose, that key purpose in this way, has been achieved. Why? Because through the pension bag, pensioners receive a greater guarantee and additional funds for pension and disability insurance. Fortunately, I am very pleased with the statement made by the Secretary of State that the pension register is completely secure. And the pensioners can be completely at peace. They have a financial basis to pay their pensions on a monthly basis. Of course, through the possibility of KAD contributing as much as possible to this same cash register, we are also active employees. Why? This is because it is not afraid that contributions to pension and disability insurance will be increased in the future. And this is how we achieve this second goal. However, we need to know, and it is right that other pensioners also know that part of the funds is allocated by the State through the state budget. And in this way, I am convinced that this basic objective, which is why the referendum was launched for the first time and today, when we deal with this problem or this law in a new form, is that we are all achieving those basic objectives that were defined in that first basic law. And all that's more than that, I don't think it's appropriate at this time, in this situation, and I'm not going to support the proposed amendment either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Genius, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Well, we're sure the purpose of the amendment is good. The problem is how this thing could be used. Certainly not a suitable solution for the compulsory part. Because the pensioners have this covered and paid and they have to get the rights to that insurance. In addition to that, it would be hard again. To find a key by which to reduce the premium for supplementary insurance, which is, as such, a bad solution, because it places the same burden on those who have little to do with nothing, as do those who have millions of euros in their pocket. And the problem is, in order to make this a health care pension, I don't see how that would come about. For example, cutbacks in waiting periods. This means that, because of their status and because of these assets, pensioners would have paid the third insurance they offer to reduce the waiting period. However, at the expense of one additional insured person’s waiting period, it means extending the waiting period for all those who do not have such insurance or do not have additional means to shorten the waiting period in this way. So the thing is, it's hard. It would be much better to say that for the health care of pensioners, but for the financing of nursing hospitals or beds in homes where permanent medical and medical care is needed. That would have been more specific. Otherwise, this would burn in the common treasury in one way or another, without a good effect. In short, I don't see how we'd spend it. But there is one other thing that, in the long run, I would say, appreciates this model that returns on pensions, has this poor quality that we come very quickly to an area where this return would finance the country directly, directly and unjustly. For if the state is now adding something to the pension payments, due to the permanent drop in pensions and every year to the budget, with which it co-finances all pension costs, the point at which pension contributions from the contribution rate are sufficient would be to go to the budget, but what it has to do to the pension fund should not be justified. In fact, this return should again and again go to the long-term reserves in Kad and present our pensions during this period, for example, when those pensioners arrive at a time when there may be an even greater crisis in the treasury. But the problem is that Kad is not fully transferred, as Mr. Starman also mentioned. It's the only way to know exactly what to do with this money. Should it be used today for some purpose in the cost of financing pension expenditure, or should it be maintained for long-term stability? In this way, the country would withdraw from the control of these finances by one stroke on the one hand. On the other hand, STIZ should seriously consider that investment or property would be converted by Kad in a way that would guarantee long-term stability and also some increase in reserves for bad times. Of course, they're doing a lot of things around the world. Not just us, just with this difference, that now as a state manager with its representatives and with the design of the Kad administration. In some other systems, that's not the case. Plus, when he's not a good driver. That's the weak spot of this law. But for this moment and perhaps for a period of two, three years, this is a solution that we will support. Further serious changes will have to be made in terms of the return of Kad's property to the pensioners, from which it was taken, alienated in 1996. And then, of course, in this way, cause the country to withdraw from the management of this property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u42	Just to clarify the debates of some predecessors. About Kad first. Where, according to the adopted budget for 2008, it is intended to provide transfer revenue of approximately €49 million. So, when he provides liquid funding for the pension fund. Three billion hundred contributions and a billion 151, as I said before, the state budget. However, since we are now adding a fourth source, the Triglav Insurance Company, and since this is supposed to provide additional resources, it is not appropriate to reduce the resources of the state budget. That is why we propose this amendment. Your concern as to how this amendment is implemented is very simple: if we follow the text of a law that will provide funding for the financing of the health care of pensioners, an additional programme will be established on the basis of this law, on the basis of a valid health law, on the basis of the annual adoption of medical design. For example, reducing waiting periods for hip surgery or for that or for that. That's possible. Don't tell me that's not possible if it's political will. And then people will know. Yeah, we gave up property rights at Triglav Insurance. Therefore, certain health-care services to which pensioners are entitled in principle, and in practice relatively long, for some even too long waiting species, will be dealt with more quickly. That's the purpose of the law. If you do this, then you have a consistent marriage with each other. If you don't accept this, then we've just kind of fooled people who at the referendum thought they'd get something. We propose to get more health rights to get them faster than ever. I don't think we need to go into the details of what waiting types mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Slovenian Export and Development Bank Act, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mag. Andrej Shircelj, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and honourable Members! You have before you a law that concludes the stages of transformation of the Slovenian Export Company into the Slovenian Export and Development Bank. The law thus provides a clear framework for the implementation of the new activities of the bank. It lays down the principles on the basis of which the bank will operate, provides for supervision or supervisors. It gives you powers. It determines the management of the bank and the financing with a view to creating synergies, obtaining cheaper sources of funding for the development of the Slovenian economy, and consequently for the growth of gross social product. The Slovenian Export and Development Bank Act also regulates the role, position, activity, ownership and organisation of a specialised Bank of the Republic of Slovenia with the power to carry out incentive and development tasks. In particular, financial character in significant areas where the implementation of the Bank's incentive measures is also possible in accordance with European Union rules. The Republic of Slovenia has so far not had a typical development bank, although some state, para-national and private institutions or funds are active in the area of financing economic development. Development finance and home insurance is a central part of development banking or the new expanded role of SIB Bank. Development banking is geared towards promoting sustainable, economic and social development through largely long-term financing or enabling the financing of projects with strong positive external impacts. On the basis of the Lisbon Strategy, the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia and the needs of the economy on the one hand, and on the basis of the competence, skills and knowledge of SIB Bank, the Bank will operate in five key areas within the framework of development banking. In particular, promoting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, promoting investment in research, development and education, promoting environmental projects such as environmental protection, energy efficiency and financing of renewable energy sources, promoting investment in development and infrastructure projects of municipalities and other public institutions, urban renewal, housing policy, support for educational institutions and linking businesses with universities. The SIB Bank will not compete with commercial banks in its development financing but will enforce the principle of non-competitiveness and complementarity to the existing financial market. This means that this bank will support those socio-economicly eligible projects that would otherwise not be financed or financed by private institutions to an insufficient extent or under extremely unfavourable conditions. The establishment of a specialised national development bank will make it possible to work more effectively in the areas of promoting and preparing international economic affairs, supporting internationalisation and international competitiveness of Slovenian companies, promoting the development and competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as funding for environmental and energy projects already mentioned, and financial support for linking and transferring knowledge between businesses and universities. This will make it possible to more effectively pursue the objectives of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia and the Lisbon Strategy or to increase the global competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. This will further affect the strengthening of sustainable development as one of the key objectives of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr. Bojan Starman, to give a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Have a nice hello to everyone again! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 36th emergency meeting, on 16. 5. The proposal for a law on the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, also addressed the working body as a parent. The College of the National Assembly met on its 9th day. 5. decided that the proposal should be considered in accordance with the urgency procedure. We have received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and amendments which take this opinion into account in some way by the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners. We also received the opinion of the University of Ljubljana, which was transmitted by Prof. Dr. Andrej Kocjančič. The meetings of the committee were usually attended by representatives of the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service. It was said that this proposal brings content on the basis of which the Slovenian State, through a specialised bank, will be able to promote financial services for the purposes of sustainable development of the Slovenian economy and risk management, presentation, simplification and rationalisation of the existing form and the way in which development finance works, together with the interests of effective implementation of public financial support. The applicant submitted shall be justified by the urgency procedure with exceptional importance for the field of the economy. In the debate itself, questions were raised as to how the State would identify additional recapitalisation. In this regard, the question was also raised as to how the monitoring and follow-up of the amendments would be addressed and adopted by the Committee. In addition, in accordance with Article 131 of the amendment to Article 18, he added, in accordance with Article 133, a proposal for a law proposing that this State Assembly should also adopt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bojan Starman has the floor again on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u48	The Slovenian exporting company was established in 1992. Its task is primarily to secure export transactions and to invest domestically abroad against certain non-commercial risks, political risks for example and certain commercial risks, exchange rate and, in addition to insurance SIDs, to issue guarantees for risks arising from major export transactions, and export transactions also to finance. It is mainly those projects or transactions that private institutions would otherwise not insure or finance or issue financial guarantees or not sufficiently. In 2007 the SID became a bank and is renamed the Slovenian Export Bank. The main objective of the proposed law is to cooperate with the SID. From the above areas, it extends to other areas where or where market gaps have been identified. These areas include in particular: international economic affairs, financing of entrepreneurship, research and development, education, employment, environmental protection and energy efficiency, regional development, housing or supply, public infrastructure and international development cooperation. The draft law provides that the liabilities of the SIB are the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to say, as I mentioned earlier, as well as this opinion from the University of Ljubljana, that the role played by the law will again be played by the Slovenian Export Development Bank d.d. As an authorised institution under this law, the envisaged support of the State has allowed for further development in terms of pursuing the objectives, the development strategy of Slovenia. In this context, in our firm belief, support for science and higher education is of particular importance if Slovenia wants to achieve competitiveness, in particular the economy. This was a quote from the opinion of the University of Ljubljana. I would also like to say that, since the opinion and support of this law by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is most credible, I would like to quote their findings. The proposal for a law calls for the expansion of the activities of the SID. Focus on the comprehensive development financial institutions or the modern national development bank, which the Slovenian economy needs in particular the export way. It is a development of a financial institution, mostly owned by a country offering financing, insurance and other financial instruments in cases where private commercial institutions are unprepared or unable to take over the burden of servicing certain higher risk-taking transactions of countries and parties. By promoting the development of the financial sector, it improves the business climate, attracts private capital resources to the domestic economy and encourages and supports the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore an institution that fills a large development gap so far, by promoting, on the basis of its own competences, competences and knowledge, strategically targeted development of small and medium-sized enterprises, investment in research, development and education, promoting environmental projects in development and infrastructure projects of municipalities and other public institutions, and in projects of educational institutions and the integration of enterprises with universities. It has all the grounds for becoming a bearer partner in the implementation of key measures to boost the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. By expanding the activities of the bank, as defined in the proposal for a law, the country responds to the interests of the economy in terms of improving operating conditions in the Republic of Slovenia and in other markets. Not only the activities of the SIB bank. The second content of the law, with the diversity of instruments and other provisions, is therefore a focus on achieving the objectives and implementation of the measures of the White Paper on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy for 2008. In short, the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the above-mentioned proposal of the law, which will ensure that our economy improves its competitiveness and ability and will allow for the equivalent position of our companies in other markets, where we know that every new business also brings additional risks that must be taken by someone if we are to pursue such transactions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Exercise on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u50	Good day to you all, representatives of the Ministry! I regret that the Minister of Finance is on other routes and is represented by the Secretary of State from the Cabinet of the Prime Minister. But it always happens on important matters anyway. We will not oppose the adoption of this law. Also because we believe that the law is prepared in some way properly. But we do have some reservations before the law. For the reasons set out below. In opening, let us say that we oppose the urgency of the procedure by which we adopt this law. We're in May 2008. If this law was really so necessary to strengthen the export of the Slovenian economy, we ask: Why did the government wait three and a half years? What did it take to wait three and a half years to prepare the Slovenian Export and Development Bank Act? We believe that such a government law, if seriously meant with the support of Slovenian exports, would be able to prepare faster, no later than with the entry into force on 1 January 2007, when, due to the taking over of the euro and the resulting inflation and competitiveness of the Slovenian economy in export markets, it fell. This is, last but not least, proved by the latest data on the balance of payments, which shows that we have - simplified - 12 euros in imports and 11 euros in exports. So every year we have about 8% of the trade deficit. We know how to lock him up. With tourist services, transport services and debt abroad. We will therefore not oppose the adoption of the law because it provides additional resources to Slovenian economists. However, the law in its implementation, in particular, can be problematic. The fact that the law is problematic in implementation is also demonstrated by the warnings that the Bank of Slovenia and the European Central Bank are supposed to have on this law. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has heeded these warnings. I would like the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to present to us the warnings of Banka Slovenije, which was transmitted in April this year to the Ministry of Finance. I think the National Assembly deserves that. It was not welcome to discuss this on the working body of the mother. We've practically adopted the law in a bad hour. However, it is a law that is as large by financial effects as the state budget. The law provides for a 50-fold guarantee potential of €150 million of capital. Therefore, it is possible to devote EUR 9 billion of new guarantee banking and other transactions from July on the basis of this law. So this is no longer the Slovenian Export Company. This is now the Slovenian Export and Development Bank. It belongs to the banking system according to its content. In Slovenia, Banja Slovenia is responsible for the supervision of the banking system. And since this is an integral part of the European Central Bank system, it would also be appropriate to bring this law into line with the European Central Bank. The government didn't do that either. But he's in a hurry with some emergency procedure. We propose, however, to avoid political conflicts, to adopt two amendments to ensure that the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who are supposed to be members of the Supervisory Council under this law, become and remain equal before the law. So licensing ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for members of the Supervisory Council must follow the Banking Act. Ministers can't drive without a driver's license. If they want to be members of the Supervisory Board, they have to get a bank license. If these two amendments, which we propose, are accepted, we will have much more joy in supporting the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Petek has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u52	Nice greeting, Vice President, Minister with his colleagues! I see that a long week leaves the consequences both in participation and in presence here today. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the Slovenian Export and Development Bank Act. It allows for the actual determination of the role, activities and all necessary organisational status solutions of the export and development banks. This law will help the country to further promote financial services for the needs of the sustainable development of the Slovenian economy and risk management and simplify and rationalise existing forms and modes of operation of Slovenian development finance, leading in particular to the interests of effective implementation of public financial support. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the aim of enabling more effective action in the areas of promoting and preparing international economic transactions, supporting internationalisation and international competitiveness of Slovenian companies and promoting development and greater competitiveness, financing of environmental and energy projects, financial support for linking and transferring knowledge between businesses and universities, financing of development and infrastructure projects of municipalities and other public institutions, investment financing or ownership, concession credits in the framework of bilateral international cooperation and other services. This can also make it possible to more effectively pursue the objectives of the Strategy for the Development of Slovenia, the Lisbon Strategy or to increase the global competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. At the same time, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we wonder whether the bank will be able to achieve its proposed objectives in the Slovenian Development Bank Act. In our view, the bank should be recapitalised as soon as possible. It is also important that the bank can be indebted. Its indebtedness will not affect public debt. Because the bank does not consider itself a wider sector of the country after its activities. The debate on the Committee, which was relatively short, shows that there is still no major opposition in the National Assembly today. And it's attached to that by LDS. We believe that it would be worth considering the amendment tabled by Social Democracy. We believe that it is better - this is all the time in the debates - that policy withdraws directly from actions or from societies where important decisions are made for the country and that experts or institutions play a role in these bodies and we therefore consider that this amendment deserves attention. However, as we ask ourselves in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia why the Government has waited for the transformation of the Slovenian Export Company until the end of the term and only now has it been proposed to transform the Slovenian company into a bank, we can say that we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen will give the opinion of the NSI Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! We support the proposal of the Slovenian Export and Development Bank Act in the New Slovenia Group because the law is good, and also because in Slovenia we will be setting up such a bank late in this area, which in most European countries already have and are essential in speeding up exports and development. In Slovenia we establish such a bank relatively late. In our opinion, mainly because this part of the needs was covered by the Slovenian Export Company. We are currently in a situation where the need for export and development support is significantly greater, as well as the possibility of obtaining development funds from European funds and the World Development Bank. That's why it's important to set up a bank. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the establishment of an export development bank will also be useful for the following reasons. In addition to existing needs in the area of economic development and enterprise development, promoting competitiveness, environmental and environmental and energy development, and housing and infrastructure, the Bank is also expected to cover the development of small and medium-sized enterprises as well as large enterprises in investing in foreign markets. The Special Export Development Bank is particularly important in cases where, in the area of individual ventures, the business bank is not interested in cooperating with exporters or is not willing to participate because the transactions are too risky. These banks also play an integration and incentive role in the field of risky export transactions. With the greater role of the Slovenian Export and Development Bank in the promotion of exports and development, Slovenia's export and development banks are also entrusted with certain other tasks, such as promoting innovation, education and training, promoting investment, developing mortgage banking and other, particularly development tasks. The law also foresees the recapitalisation of a bank of EUR 50 million. Funds are provided in the 2008 budget. The law also provides for the exclusion of minority shareholders in the estimated value of approximately EUR 15 million. These funds are also provided in the 2008 budget. The supervision of the bank's operations will take place on three levels. From a banking point of view, Banka Slovenije will be supervised by the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The Bank's operations will be supervised directly through the Supervisory Board by the Ministry of Finance. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposal for the establishment of the Slovenian Export and Development Bank is a good proposal, which will contribute significantly to the development of a number of economic activities in countries where Slovenia is experiencing difficulties, and also in many other areas where, due to its risk, cooperation has been difficult so far. We will support the law in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u56	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Honourable Members! Slovenia is one of the rare European countries without its own specialised enabling and developing financial institution, which would operate throughout the field of development promotion, as regulated in most developed countries with independent national development banks or similar development-oriented specialised financial institutions. Thus, Slovenia has not yet been able to establish institutions that would link and round up the existing system for promoting economic development, entrepreneurship and innovation, internationalisation, ecology and energy, infrastructure, regional development and the like. This would improve the efficiency of existing, potentially large synergies and optimise certain functions that are currently being duplicated or less coordinated in the context of the operation of individual existing enabling and development-oriented institutions. At the same time, it would reduce administrative obstacles and allow the implementation of this development funding in one place or rationalise the role of the State. Private institutions, i.e. banks and insurance companies, are following the sole principle of maximising profits. Therefore, they focus mainly on the short-term private benefits of a particular business. Also on account of his long-term social benefits. This leads to market gaps where certain segments of the economy are not sufficiently serviced by the banking or insurance sector. Incentive financing shall cover the market failures mentioned above. Incentive and development financial institutions are mainly state-owned financial institutions. Established with a view to remedying market failures and promoting the economic development of the country. Therefore, the stronger basic objective of the law is to identify the role, activities and all necessary status and organisational solutions of the specialised export and development bank, including the acquisition of powers to carry out public encouraging tasks, in particular the financial character in the area of the introduction and increase of greater diversity, competitiveness and internationalisation of the economy, industry and services, international trade, economic and development cooperation, entrepreneurship, innovation and education, environment, energy and infrastructure in regional, social, housing and others, in order to develop important areas. By means of this law, the Slovenian State will be able to promote financial services through a specialised bank for the purposes of sustainable development of the Slovenian economy and risk management and simplify and rationalise existing forms and modes of operation of Slovenian development finance following the interests of effective implementation of public financial support. The present bill therefore provides the right conditions for the achievement of the objectives presented. And the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Foreign examples and assessments by the Slovenian Government speak of the need for a financial institution in Slovenia, as we are talking about today. And in the DeSUS Group, we are in favour of this idea and the bill, that is to say we will support them. It is simply a matter of trying to provide our economy with an appropriate system service, an appropriate state support service. In such a way that those who are not most interested were also most attractive to other commercial banks that seek to boost their investment. This idea, therefore, is to fill those niches that have so far not had enough service that are not attractive enough to quickly fertilise capital. So, we join this idea in the Desus Group. The idea of this service being provided. The promises they make in the material that we have been given to think about are faster, better, more effective support for small and medium-sized enterprises. These programmes and projects, which are more integrated and longer term-oriented and possibly less attractive to our environment, are only because we are still slightly lagging behind. In the DeSUS Group, we do not know how environmental programmes, waste programmes, housing programmes and other similar programmes could be uninteresting. Development is certainly essential. And they're going to show up as profitable and we're going to have some kind of phase shift. And if so far there has been insufficient and sufficient systematic and comprehensive support for these projects, it is only right that we try to make it possible. That doesn't say anything about there being no support so far. The government is assessing or proposing that this support is too fragmented, that it is suboptimal, that it can be arranged in a different way and with the expected greater effects. It seems that in this way the financial sector will also go towards us, that most banks will become privatised and that one important bank will remain in support of other country-wide important projects. We estimate it would be even considerate. Therefore, we do not intend to oppose this direction. However, there are also a few sentences in this bill, some provisions that have interfered with our thinking. We've talked about this before before the law was given into procedure. And let me say that we have focused on what part of the opposition later warned about, that is, how the supervisory council is composed. On how small shareholders are expected to be disembarked, and on some other minor matter, which I hope the representatives of the proposer have correctly and appropriately explained, so that we do not have great concerns in this regard. However, it is our view that the two amendments proposed by the opposition species, the amendment relating to the composition of the Supervisory Council and the amendment concerning the appropriate professional readiness, the qualifications of those in the supervisory council, the ministers are mainly eligible for reflection and, possibly, support. We will see what the debate on this will show and, according to the debate, we will also decide on the support of these two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, you have the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u60	Your Honors are here! This time, on behalf of the Lipa Group, I must commend the Ministry of Field Affairs, in particular the professional co-workers within the Ministry of Finance. First, on the basis of prepared or drawn material, the second, on the basis of the path we have rarely received in the framework of the parliamentary procedure, namely prior communication with colleagues or representatives of the Ministry of Finance. Indeed, they may keep the words of some representatives that the law mentioned, that is, the law before us today, should come into the parliamentary procedure earlier. On the other hand, it's still true. Better late than never. As far as the bill itself is concerned and as far as the previous talks are concerned, in my particular case, with Mr Andoljski, I must point out a new transformation of the so-called SID into a national bank for exporters. As a result of the fact that most of Slovenia's economic growth over the past two years has been the result of activities in the export and construction fields, it is only right that these spheres are being improved or we are trying to create conditions for easier continuation of work in these areas. And if we are aware that the highway cross will be very soon, at least I sincerely hope so, we will end up with a clean economy. One of the speakers in front of me highlighted the export-import ratio. It has further highlighted the existing deficit, i.e. the difference between imports and exports. From this title, the measure, as proposed to us today in the form of a law, must be supported, according to my assessment, for all Members. It would be so much better if, in addition to this law, a second amendment was adopted, in particular, as proposed by the SD. However, I would like to point out, although I know that most of this has already been exposed, i.e. the scope of action. As regards the very difference between commercial classical banks, which some also call business banks, on the one hand and on the other, the said national bank for exporters and their support to the markets of the former Yugoslavia or, rather, to the markets of Eastern Europe. For the protection and promotion of such transactions, Slovenian companies dealing with exports are much more welcome. At the final stage, we still know that the situation in these markets in particular for Slovenian companies, export companies, is so much more interesting due to market knowledge and, on the other hand, are so much more at risk due to the unspecified or less-defined rules of the games that take place on these markets. In my personal discussions with the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, I highlighted the dilemma that may have seemed to me to be the most problematic, i.e. the expulsion of minority shareholders. According to my assessment or the information I obtained right through the conversation, it's about 8.2% of the output. Which is legally possible, according to the Law Directive 10%. Despite this fear, representatives of the Ministry of Finance presented to me the structure of these 8.2% small shareholders. We usually think of ourselves as small shareholders of a natural person or of an extremely small company that is on the financial market. In this case, at least on the basis of the information I have obtained, and I sincerely hope that they are accurate, by the Ministry of Finance, it is the banks. In this case, the New Ljubljana Bank, the New Credit Bank and some other commercial banks. I must therefore say, taking into account the needs of companies, a speech on promoting education, research and development, and not least, although we all know that this is only a small, small, small proportion of what is called ecological projects, we will also support the law within the Lipa Group. In particular, in pursuit of this objective, the desired economic growth in the future and the creation of a domestic financial climate for companies engaged in their exports, thus trying to raise or balance the balance of payments with foreign countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled. I am putting an amendment to Article 18 of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Mag. Squeakle, Mr. Pache and Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this opportunity. I'd like to apologize first, there were some comments, if the minister wasn't present. The fact is, in accordance with the programme you adopted for today's meeting, it was envisaged that this point would start there at about half past twelve, that is to say in twenty minutes. You have been very effective in addressing the first point, at which I was also partly present, but I would also like some understanding when such assessments are made. On the other hand, I would like to explain certain things that have occurred in the presentations that we have heard on behalf of the groups of Members. And first of all, you're gonna do what happens to us all of a sudden at the last moment of this term we come in the day with such a law. I would like to remind you of the long-term process that has been under way since 2003. Fate or development, the institutional development of the Slovenian Export Company, has been the subject of discussions in the National Assembly in the previous term and has also been one proof of how certain issues that are actually addressed by our entire society can be resolved in some way. In fact, at that time, the government came a day with one bill, including in the last months of its previous mandate. And this National Assembly has adopted the Law on the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Affairs, this is the ZZFMGP that we have adopted, which foresees exactly that development. The SID, as a Slovenian exporting company, was a typical institution that operated in the field of international business insurance, at the expense of the State, with strong, growing guarantees and without any legal framework. Therefore, this consensus was also reached by the then opposition and the then government, that it is imperative that this area be regulated, so that we can begin to regulate it as soon as possible. This ZZFMGP law, the Law on the Insurance and Financing of International Economic Affairs, was the legal basis on which we then built all of this. This did not start until 14 days ago, it started in the previous term. In 2005, if you'll allow me some clarification in this area, as a finance minister, I just got directly involved, personally in the supervisory board of this institution, because, in my previous role as a member of this National Assembly, I strongly committed myself to this matter to some long-term solution. In 2005, the year of consolidation of business, in 2006 and in early 2007 and on the basis of extremely constructive cooperation between the Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Slovenia, led by Banka Slovenije, we finally transformed this AIDS facility into a bank. It's a long-term process, it can't be done overnight. And today we can look at this institution with great hope that it will also be based on this law, which I hear reaping the support of all parliamentary parties, to achieve some legal framework that will ensure that we continue to develop such an institution regularly, which Slovenia certainly needs to have a great dispersion of certain functions here. We must be aware that Slovenia has become a donor state. It's hard for our political space to understand what all this means. It is crucial, however, that we do this as a country and also coordinate all our new obligations as a single country and a member of the international community, so that we can also align these obligations with our legitimate interests, as all developed countries have done in the past. And just on the basis of their examples, especially the examples of how European countries have regulated this is also this law that you have before you today. This is not some thing that happened overnight, or that this is in a hurry, the fact is that this is a result of a long-term work that started already in the discussions in the National Assembly and its working bodies in 2003.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u63	Mr. Secretary, allow me to remind you. I'd like to discuss the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u64	I understand. I would just like to clarify certain questions and ask for an understanding of the National Assembly, if I may touch two more points very quickly. We have also heard about the need to recapitalise the Bank's SID. This is provided for in the 2008 budget of the Republic of Slovenia under heading 9,295, recapitalisation of the Bank’s SID. And that will be done. Then I'll finish because I can see that there is no understanding in all of these matters. But I'm going to use the opportunity to explain something else if I feel it's necessary. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. It's a drill. From now on, we will really only discuss the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u67	I also say this that I have allowed the Minister to give his opinion, because there have been many indications that he has been absent and that we do not have his opinion. I took that into account. I may have slightly violated the rules of procedure, but I have followed the will to hear his opinion. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I agree with you, and I also agree with your warning to the Minister and also to all Members. I'll just talk about the amendment. The amendment we are proposing, or the two amendments we are proposing to Article 18, are substantively trying to remove the fundamental dilemma we have with regard to the will of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I think it is clear to everyone that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sent this law to the National Assembly in May this year; it was adopted on 8 May 2008. However, in my opinion or in our opinion, and that is why we have also drafted this amendment, there has been a certain lack of consistency here. We are talking about the amendment to Article 18, so we need to tell the Slovenian public what article 18 is saying. Article 18 speaks of the supervisory board of the Bank’s SID. The Supervisory Board of each bank shall, in accordance with the Banking Act, in addition to the classical tasks performed by the Supervisory Board under the Company Act, also give its consent for business, for specific transactions where these are too large in respect of the powers of each administration. Therefore, unlike other supervisory boards, there is a specific provision in the Banking Act, which states that members of the Supervisory Board must be qualified to make such decisions, and these members of the Supervisory Board cannot be in conflict of interest. And so remember a few years ago, when we had a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that a State Secretary would be a member of the Supervisory Board, the Bank of Slovenia found that it did not meet the conditions for a member of the Supervisory Board because it was in conflict. The Slovenian Export Bank or SID Bank, as it is briefly called, although it is a Slovenian Export and Development Bank, may be the real name of the SIRB, have very large powers for good or, if you wish, for taxpayers. 9 billion euros is a guarantee potential. Remember yesterday's debate on highways - special law, €544 million, three-hour debate. Today's two hours of debate and the National Assembly will never again meet with an impact on decisions on where EUR 9 billion of potential guarantees from the Republic of Slovenia will actually be earmarked. Therefore, it makes sense that we have a very good sovereign, capable oversight council. As a result, in the Banking Act, the provision states that each member of the Supervisory Board, and in particular the one who decides where 9 billion euros will go, should be specifically checked with a licence. This licence, exercised by the Bank of Slovenia as an independent institution, consists of checking the professional professional competence of individual candidates and verifying their non-conflict nature. But what does the government say? The government says that the Supervisory Board, which has at least 7 and a maximum of 10 members, is composed of a majority of the Government itself or representatives of the Government. The mandatory members shall be the Minister responsible for finance, for the economy, for development and so on. There's nothing wrong with that. We don't have a problem with that. However, we have a problem when we start listing some additional ministers, such as the Foreign Minister and so on. With the Minister for Foreign Policy, we have a problem not because of the Minister for Foreign Policy, but the supervisory board of the SIRB Bank will have to meet very often because the businesses are such that it will have to approve them. I have no idea how the Minister for Foreign Policy and all the other ministers will really find time to sit together as a supervisory council. That is why I have already told the committee that it is likely that many correspondence meetings of such a supervisory board will be held. And so far, everything's fine. Then you have an exception in Article 5 of this Act, which says that the Ministers of the Republic of Slovenia are different kinds of people than everyone else. In order to be members of the Supervisory Board, they do not need to be licensed with Banka Slovenije, even though they will decide on 9 billion of our money. We therefore propose, with the second amendment, that this exception be deleted as ministers. We also propose this because this provision is directly contrary to the Banking Act and the Central Bank Act and constitutes a major conflict of interest. I think this is clear to you all and therefore we believe it is right to support both amendments. The first amendment, which speaks of having a number of members, is that then the government also decides how and what with these ministers - the idea that it should be members of eight. And the second idea or word ten is replaced by eight, and the second fundamental, more important, is the amendment that ministers also get a license. I do not picture any candidate for the Minister for Development hoping to run for Minister for Development, but he is not qualified to be the supervisor of the banking institutions, but he intends to decide on billions of euros. Therefore, I propose, colleagues, that this amendment be supported in order to ensure equality before the law. Otherwise, in Slovenia we have a special caste of ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who, even though deciding on 9 billion euros, do not need a license from the Bank of Slovenia, even though this is prescribed in Slovenian legislation for any other business. The special question that I have to ask the Minister of Finance directly is whether you have aligned all the provisions with the Bank of Slovenia and whether this law has also received the support of the European Central Bank in accordance with Articles 24 and 25 of the Bank of Slovenia Act? Are you in line with the Statute of the European Central Bank, given that our'supervisor' is also part of the European central banking system, this has been harmonised? Let me remind you that a couple of months ago, we wrote one marriage and some amendments to some of the laws just because of the ECB's comments. One last thought. On 25 April 2008, it was published in the Youth Framework of the SD programme, the Social Democrats. We were talking in there about setting up an AIDS bank. 14 days later, the government passed the SID Bank Act. I believe it was just a case.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. In connection with both amendments to Article 18, allow me first to read the explanation for the first amendment to Article 18. "Although the Social Democrats are seriously counting on the support of the elections and voters in the next elections, we propose to adopt the amendment with which it will be adopted..." and so on, I believe now the criticism from my side is that you will take it in good faith, the SD Group of Ambassadors. [[...]] This is a typical example of the use of legislation for electoral campaigns. According to my assessment of the amendment, the proposal to amend the law, which in its content, the explanation is an integral part of the amendment, bears a political pamphlet on how a political party will come into power outside the daily policy, and, in my opinion, the legislative and legal service, regardless of the contents of the amendment itself, this amendment, because we all know that the explanation is an integral part of the amendment, should be rejected. I will read again because this is what I think happened for the first time in the parliamentary debate of the legislative procedure, that a political party is an integral part of the bill's amendment, which has written: "Although the Socialists are seriously counting on the support of the electorate and the electorate..." The amendments are not and must not be the propaganda material of a political party. So much for the explanation. I must say that I personally laughed in the first moment, in the next moments, I was appalled at the creation of a parliamentary group that proposed and used the legislative procedure in writing to carry out political propaganda in the National Assembly. If we have all tried so far to see that there is as little direct propaganda as possible in the National Assembly, then at the end of the term I will experience, or at least personally, I will experience this kind of work and I really do not think that there is anything to do in the parliamentary debate. And if you'll excuse me, the content itself, if we ignore the explanation given to us by SD. The draft law in Article 18 speaks and the easiest thing to do is to open up material in the context of an explanation, says that the Supervisory Board has four permanent members, one of whom is appointed by the Government, and then lists the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Development are already members of the Supervisory Board. Even within the Lipa Group of Members, we seek to see that, despite being a minister and looking at the composition of today's ministers, and to look at the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take the form or in the framework of the role of supervisors, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and [[or the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs; and]] either the Minister of Environment and Space and/or the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, without demeaning these people, but the knowledge of the supervision of financial institutions is probably beyond the knowledge of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. In that sense, the desire to pursue the best supervisory authority that will actually oversee the operation of a company that has an incomprehensible or which provides a guarantor for incomprehensible financial liabilities would, in my opinion, need to adopt a second amendment, which in fact deletes the word 'except ministers' in the fifth paragraph. Otherwise, in the framework of the bill, the executive authorities have written us in their own explanations and, according to my assessment, it is inappropriate, but above all very impractical, which raises questions about that provision on the highest legal act on equality, and members of the supervisory board who are not ministers must meet all the conditions that are applicable to members of the supervisory board on banks. According to my assessment, it is also necessary to give from this bank, as from all other banks, but especially from this bank, which has an extraordinary amount or power, better said, to give exclusively expertise. I have previously listed several ministries as envisioned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia because of knowledge of the situation and similar things. But the task of a supervisor in a banking institution is, in my opinion or in my firm belief, so important that we should not miss mandatory knowledge, which is otherwise prescribed for all supervisors in financial institutions, just because someone is a minister. I will not talk about the potential participation or non-participation of individual ministers listed here within the Supervisory Committee. I will not speak for this because we see that, in his belief, a minister is rarely able to leave the meetings of the National Assembly for reasons other than his own. Some even say from the meetings of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to prevent the operation of this body, these companies only because ministers would come from the knowledge that they want to sit on this supervisory committee. In addition, was it not a short time ago exactly the Government's position that ministers withdraw from the accompanying functions, such as the members of the Supervisory Board, precisely because of their occupation. I think it was this week when the Prime Minister of the Government said that he would not even work with a matter of great importance because he doesn't have time. On the one hand, of course, this is understandable. I believe the President of the Government is fully engaged. However, I do not understand why the law defines, not just for the sake of the current government, even for all future governments, why, after a defolk or post, to make it more understandable, introduce ministers from so many different areas into such a specific function. Once again, I think that there has been a reasonable amendment, particularly the second amendment, already because the explanation is correct, accepted. At the first amendment, however, I would like, in the sense of correction and respect for the legislative branch of the Authority, to delete the last paragraph of the amendment in the context of the explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u71	Thank you very much. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, Mr. Mag. Squeakle, I can't give you a replica because you weren't mentioned. The amendment was mentioned. Under the two amendments of the SD Group of Ambassadors, Mr Miran Potrč has been signed. I'm very careful with the credentials and the signatures. You can report to the debate. Mr. Magg has the word. Spread out.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Allow me to respond to the amendment or to what has been said about this amendment and the explanation. In my introductory address, I highlighted the many roles or functions that this bank will play and will have. This role or functions relate to a number of areas. One of them is ecological, international cooperation and so on. And in this connection, they also include departmental ministers in the Supervisory Board. And, of course, their work here will be important in particular in terms of the coordination of work and of the specific areas that this bank is supposed to finance. It should be pointed out here that this bank has its own supervisors for various transactions. On the one hand, it is the Bank of Slovenia, on the other, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and on the third hand, of course, the Ministry of Finance. And you'll be doing your part of the job. The Supervisory Board may also have its professional bodies within the framework of the Company Act. And these committees can report and report to the supervisory board. On the basis of these, the Supervisory Board may also act and decide. Some members of the Supervisory Board will be here in terms of a coordinating function and in terms of ensuring a coordinated performance of this bank, coordinated funding of various areas. Cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia in the preparation of this law was also mentioned. This cooperation took place at the professional level. And this law follows the guidelines given by Banka Slovenije in connection with this law, and these proposals were also included in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath Joseph, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, once again a very nice greeting! My initial decision to apply for the debate was also based on an explanation for the first amendment to Article 18. The last paragraph really bothers me, and in this regard I absolutely agree with the broad debate held by my fellow Member and Vice-President, Mr Pece. Indeed, such a serious parliamentary group as the Social Democrats should not afford such an explanation. And I even expected that Mr Vice-President, with his authority, would try to achieve in the business procedure that this amendment would be excluded from consideration. But I'm not going to do it myself, I'm going to discuss it. Dear colleague, Mr Milan M. Squeakle, I would like to reassure you not to worry that there will be many meetings of the Supervisory Board. He also spoke about correspondence sessions and so on. If he is to convene these meetings of the Governing Council, thank God he will already be able to organize these matters well, he has experience. As for the criticism that the proposaler may not have asked the European Central Bank about the opinion on this law, I can say what we heard at the presentation of this law and what all the members of the group have heard that Bank Slovenia supports this solution. And any simple citizen who reads daily newspapers, not necessarily every day, knows that we entered the euro area when we took over the euro, and the Bank of Slovenia has also become in some way an integral part of the European Central Bank. And if Banka Slovenije gives the green light, I understand that in fact the green light, that the European Central Bank too. It makes no sense to me that these ministers are sitting in the supervisory council. So the two of you are going to sit down. Why? Because this law is in fact helping to implement the development strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. And we know what the basic priorities of the development strategy in Slovenia are, of course, adopted by the National Assembly. Let me repeat at least four fundamental objectives of the development of Slovenia. First time. Over ten years, it exceeds the average level of economic development of the European Union. Another time. Improving the quality of life and prosperity. Third time. Implementing the principle of sustainability in intergenerational and co-natural development objectives. And the fourth time. To become a recognizable and reputable country in the world. If we understand that, then we understand why the ministers to sit on the supervisory board of this bank are listed in Article 18. The implementation of the adopted strategy for the development of Slovenia, and related tasks, requires certain changes. And the strengthening of the existing system of development finance and this is what we are doing with this law, with this solution that is good in this law. Let me put it this way, the New Slovenia Group will support this law. However, we estimate that the proposed amendment to Article 18 by the Social Democrats is not worthy of support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Decide for a phone or a debate. I can't. I've tolerated you a lot, sir. I've also kept you on the list while you were on the phone. All the way to one border. And the Order must be. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u76	President, we have a very unusual new procedure in today's session. You don't publish names anymore, but you call people. That there will be no doubt. The explanation of the amendment should be read to the end. Even though the social democrats are seriously counting on the support of voters and voters in the next elections, we propose to adopt an amendment with which the policy is self-limited. Self-limits in SID management. However, it is not to adopt the structure of the Supervisory Board because it is within the majority of ministers, and ministers have this as a reserve budget. Write this down, everyone in your programme, support our amendment today and we will have a professional and not policy that will influence how nine billion euros of guarantee potential will be decided. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drafted an amended law, but wants to abuse it for political purposes. The Minister of Environment and Space, which will not be able to implement certain programmes in the budget, will use the potential of the SID to do so. In 20 years, when these loans cannot be repaid, taxpayers will pay for them. Limit yourself to the fact that ministers should also be licensed by Banka Slovenije, that all members of the Supervisory Board should be experts, and that there will be a lot less errors in the SID. Therefore, I repeat, on April 25th we proposed in our programme, published in Youth, the establishment of a SID bank. On 8 May, you adopted a very substantively similar law in the government. By wanting to influence this bank politically, we want to limit ourselves in advance. That's why we proposed an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u77	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IT'S A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE PUBLIC INTEREST FOR CULTURE, AFTER A COMPLETE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Jelka Pirkovich, Secretary of State. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u78	Dear Presidents, Ladies and Members of Parliament! A proposal to amend and supplement the law on the exercise of public interest in the field of culture, as you know, is being adopted quickly. The main reason for drawing up this proposal came from the Constitutional Court. At the same time, the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has also taken into account certain other facts or proposes to comply with legislation adopted in the interim period. I have no doubt that you are all aware of the changes that are being made, so I will briefly mention only those that are essential, a few changes are also technical in nature, which is not to be lost in words. Article 1 speaks of making it easier for public agencies or public funds to operate in this area. And in this part, the law travels to the application of the superior law, the law on public finances or the law on public funds and public agencies. Article 2 which is the core of the amendments relates to the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, which, at the initiative of the trade union, decided that those employees who are employed in larger public institutions should also be allowed to have their representatives in the councils of these institutions. As you know, so far it has been considered that employees' representatives have only been involved in those worlds where there are fewer than 20 employees in the public office. Article 3 means somehow upgrading or aligning with the law on the public sector wage system. It treats specificities in the field of culture when public auditions are required as a condition for the employment of creative professions in the field of music and ballet in addition to the prescribed other conditions. It is a matter of legalizing the practice so far, when individual authorities of such institutions have also carried out such an audit. Article 4 also introduces a specific feature in the field of creative professions, namely the possibility of awarding the title of champion in some creative professions in the field of culture for a period of five years, with the possibility of extension and with special arrangements, it is a creator who has exceeded a certain age. That name may then be permanently granted. Perhaps something else about a transitional or final provision. 9.a Article is merged to provide a basis for the implementation of Article 4 of the amendment of the law by instructing the Minister responsible for culture to lay down criteria for the achievement of the title of champion or of the Supreme Musician within a certain period of time. The Committee of the National Assembly, as will certainly be said here, has also tabled several amendments to the proposed law, which mainly follow the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. Dear Members and Members! The proposed amendment to the law on culture is an important, although not very big, step forward. It is particularly important to allow workers to participate equally in the management of these institutions and to ensure, in the light of the implementation of the new wage system, certain specificities arising from the nature of creative professions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of this Committee, Mr Grimes, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u80	All welcome, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, which discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture at its meeting on 7 May 2008. He took note of the report of the Commission of the State Council, which supported the law and recommended that the legislative and legal services' comments be put into effect as soon as possible, which were then also summarised in part in the amendments tabled before the meeting and in part in one of the amendments adopted as an amendment to the Committee. The Committee held a debate on the proposed novel. The biggest debate was with regard to the composition of the councils where the question was raised whether it was fully implementing the Constitutional Court decision. The Minister's reply was that the majority of the councils were made up of a three-member and one member, who was guaranteed by the law's amendment to the employees, meant that they were already getting that third, which had actually been placed as a requirement. Finally, the Commission supported or supported two amendments, adopted one of its own amendments and supported the amendment of the law. We propose to the National Assembly that the draft law also be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that this correction is another of those missed opportunities that the Ministry has received in order to try to regulate the rules on participation in the management of public institutions in the field of culture. Of course, this is about correcting the solution that was adopted, if I recall correctly, in 2002, and was opposed by employees through their unions. The Constitutional Court has given them the benefit and expected, in fact, the National Assembly to take such a decision that workers participate in the management of these institutions in the same way, regardless of whether they are small or large institutions. In our view, the Ministry has avoided the instructions of the Constitutional Court by allowing participation in the management of these institutions, but it has done so in a way that part of how these institutions will be run has left to the founding acts. This will continue to repeat debates on the fact that employees in culture are not all in an equal position as regards access to the management of their institutions. The ministry has been clearly warned about this, but of course it does not want to accept this debate. This solution, which, while part of the management misunderstanding, eliminates and equates public institutions in the field of culture with other public institutions, but we fear that it will happen again, because it can happen that every single institution will be run in a different way. That doesn't make any sense. Therefore, together with the other Members and members of the opposition, we have tried a supplement which, as we understand the decision of the Constitutional Court, would already have been made by law, saying that at least one third or one third of these members of the Council are employed. This has not been accepted and this has been transferred again, as it were said, to the founding acts. From this point of view, this inequality will continue. Whether we will ever think about it again is another question, and the question of qualified complainants. The second issue is also the deadlines for implementing these amendments. So the employees, the unions, the State Council and the opposition wanted these things to be settled as soon as possible. The Ministry has taken, I will say, quite a deadline and has not accepted these comments, which we cannot explain in any other way than to try to extend its mandate and the possibility of interfering with the decisions of the public institutions as far as possible. This is quite unacceptable, for, for example, at this moment the situation in Drama, where it turns out that the minister, by law, has upset practically all Slovenian cultural shit. Therefore, we believe that these supplements are a step further, but they are not optimal and we will oppose these solutions. At the same time, we point out that the Minister, as well as in other matters, is deaf to all those who want to regulate matters in the field of culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u84	Your Honor! Once again a very nice greeting on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. The new Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture mainly brings the law into line with the provisions of the related laws and aligns it with the Constitutional Court decision providing for the participation of workers in sacred public institutions in the field of culture. In New Slovenia, we believe that the integration of employees into the world of the institution is not only a solution that would follow the Court's regulation, but primarily the most appropriate and fair solution for the representation of employees in sacred public institutions. The solution, as envisaged by the law, that there are at least one and a maximum of 1/3 employees in the world of the institution is appropriate. In the management of public institutions, they will also have an important word for employees, who are certainly the most important factor in the operation and the very existence of institutions. It is necessary to adopt a new bill on culture and thus ensure the implementation of the provisions and the resolution of the law also in practice, which we expect will contribute to a better position of culture in the country. In New Slovenia, we support and support the law's full implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik has the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u86	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Honourable Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the shortened procedure of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on the realization of public interest in culture, because it is a minor but important amendment of the law, which we will therefore support. We support the proposal to equalise the representation of employees in public institutions in the field of culture with more than 20 employees in public institutions in the field of culture with less than 20 employees, bringing the law into line with the constitutional provision, so that employees will be represented by at least one member up to a third of the members of the institution's world. In addition to the representatives of the founder appointed by the founder from among the experts in the field of public service, finance and legal matters. We also support the addition of legal solutions and their alignment with other laws regarding the establishment of a register of legal persons who are granted a status of action in the public interest in the field of culture under Article 80 of this Law. We think it makes sense, given the actual situation, to also agree that the employment of opera and choir singers and orchestra musicians in public institutions is possible exceptionally with the successful examination of the ability and suitability of candidates in the audition, which replaces the relevant education, but not more than two levels. We are confident that these amendments will make the law easier to implement and the Constitutional Court's decision will be implemented, and more importantly, that more fairly and evenly the representatives will be employed in public institutions, in holy institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u88	Dearly-respected Secretary of State! In fact, we are increasingly wondering whether the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture has the right title. The public interest in culture has been declining in recent years in the hands of the public, as well as less and less targeted to the public. Otherwise, leading workers would not willingly lock the doors of public institutions, as was the case in Kinodvor, the officials would not be absolute monarchs, as is the case in the Film Fund or the Media Directorate. On Radio Slovenija, for example, there would not be a third programme on impact, Ars, RTV Slovenia would not lack cultural content, and respected, credible and capable people would not leave and abandon the leadership of the Central Council in the field of culture, i.e. NSK. And this novel would also be written in the greater interest of cultural institutions, but history will judge it. Today, we are judging a novel that is seemingly quite innocent, does not bring about the major changes we heard about at the beginning of the mandate and promised by the Minister. Let me remind you that the constitutional assessment initiative has been given to employees through the union and has also been successful by the union. The same union also proposed corrections and solutions, but although the discussion on the parental committee strongly supported this proposal, it is said that the government's solution, which is supposed to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, would not be rectified, in short, rectified. That's why we won't be able to support this novel in Zares. For it is a matter of solutions to have more seats, more words, and more power in the world of public institutions. Of course, this request or solution immediately raised the voice that it was the smell of former working worlds and self - control. I can say that if the representatives of the workers in the world are not properly represented, we can talk about another smell or smell first, that is to say, the greater impact of power and policy on the work of public institutions. The third composition of the Councils would be more democratic and more in line with the spirit of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is now changing and transferring to sub-legislative acts. I understand that, on certain issues, this would mean, if at least a third of the workers represented in the councils of public institutions were somehow disturbed by the minister, the minister. This is not necessary, for we know that sometimes it is not worth offending the minister or the minister, but it is true, at least in an unreleased society and state. But if this country were so relaxed, then the distinguished people, I repeat, would not be disappointed to withdraw from cultural life. This is confirmed by today's practice and confirmed by the modified calls written on the skin of the desired, with the conditions that open the door to those wanted by the minister in managerial functions, not necessarily the institution. That's more than obvious, and if ever, then today's moment is a witness. The Constitutional Court’s decision states that employees are adequately represented in the institution’s world, and the Government has left this suitability to some of the sub-legislative acts, but in part it has not been followed by the intention shown by the union over the interest to clearly define that at least one third of the workers should be represented in the holy public institutions. It would therefore make sense for the law to stipulate that there must be one third of the world's workers and that they are exercising their interests, the interests of the institution in this place. After all, the power of politics, which is increasingly present in cultural life, would also be reduced in this sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u90	Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State. Members and Members of Parliament. In our parliamentary group, we have reviewed the Novelo Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. I would like to say that we will support this novelty, paying attention to what is in the novelty of the new, especially in relation to the employment of certain groups of cultural workers, to the time limits for the conclusion of the labour relationship and also to the awarding and awarding of titles to cultural workers. We agree with that. We have also paid a lot of attention to the Constitutional Court's decision on the participation of employees in the public service world. And we agree and note that this has been taken into account in the paper, even though it has been left to the legislator to do so. In doing so, we hope that it will be done right. That's our brief point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Ambassador Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, we will not support it. We, after all, think that some things should be resolved differently. First of all, what the Constitutional Court has decided to provide for the participation of workers in all sacred public institutions in the field of culture is not implemented in this Article 42 of the Act in the right way. For we judge that the law should say that at least one third of the workers participate, but not that it leaves it to the worlds or to the founding acts of each individual public institution. In this way we will once again come to the conclusion that public institutions will fight each other, each one will have his own status, his own ways, his own approaches, which of course is not good. We assume that this should be in the marriage as such. It is also unclear to us when we speak in article 48a, which is newly added, that it will appear as either a champion or a solo dancer or something like that, or a prima donna, that this will be limited in time. When prima donna reaches prima donna status, it's a prima donna for all eternity. At least that's how we know who we've ever been to an opera and everyone who's the first dancer stays the first dancer, even if they don't play the first roles. But that's the name he gets. Like in Russia, for example, a merit artist doesn't last, say, three, four, five years, and then it's taken away from him, but it stays. With age, it doesn't interfere with top roles, but that's it. On the other hand, something is not envisaged, otherwise it is true that this article was not open but for the operation of workers in public institutions and is not regulated in cultural institutions. In fact, for a long time in culture, it has been said that artists should be employed in contracts, on an annual limited contract, for one year or two years, not that we have in various public, what I know, in opera, ballet, in Drama, in other theatres, employees who receive wages, but actually do nothing because they simply cannot be replaced by one better artist. Because in Europe, there is a way for artists to "fluctuate" from one theater to another, and because of this we lose the quality of the stagework. Surely, I think the fact is that this law should actually be rectified by Mrs Richter's time, but it was not being corrected at the time. That's when. But I don't know, well, Mrs Richter probably didn't even understand things, as she didn't understand many other things. But I only hope that the SD does not intend to reintroduce it to the post of Minister of Culture, in so far as the SD will have a winning flag in its next term. In short, one more time; we won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u93	The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, also distinguished Madam Secretary at the Ministry of Culture! Initially, the Ministry's representative highlighted two important innovations. One of the innovations is the unquestionably alignment of the Law with the Constitutional Court's decision. In its decision, the Constitutional Court has written down clearly and loudly, and I will say that this will result in the repeal of the first paragraph of Article 42 of the Law by a postponement period of nine months. The provision in this paragraph excludes the possible participation of workers in the world of public institutions in the field of culture. The Ministry has, as has already been said, taken into account the decision of the Constitutional Court in at least one part, and unfortunately in the other part the Ministry again or this Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not take into account the specific comments of the social partners. And this particular comment is a comment that will not give support to this bill even in the Lipa Group. Article 2 proposed still, or again, allows inequality between workers in the exercise of the right to participate in management. In the Education and Education Union, they point out that their comments were not taken into account during the coordination phase with this law. They state the arrangements in the field of education and education, where the councils of public institutions are made up of a three-partite principle, namely, workers represent a third of all members of the board of institutions. The solution proposed by the Minister of Culture is a departure from what has already been legalized in other areas in the field of education and education. This is said to be an uneven solution in different areas, which, after all, belong more or less to the same system. And this is the system that Mrs State Secretary has also mentioned in her presentation, called the pay system, the single salary system of Minister Virant, which is trying to bring him into our legal order or the pay order, in fact, since the beginning of the mandate. On the one hand, I wonder whether the Minister, who proposes solutions that do not follow this tripartite representation in the world of public institutions, in some way also expresses the Minister's distrust of cultural workers. On the other hand, yes, I've heard the answer, of course, I believe it is, I'm sorry. [[...]] On the other hand, when I mentioned a single pay system, which is also joined by the cultural ministry or cultural workers, you know, this is the new pay system, which, under the assumption, is only supposed to be the goal of eliminating pay imbalances, literally subjugates different pay systems, different professions in our country, different sectors of government. Some compare this work even with Stalin's work, which I believe should have been a "passenger" long ago in our country. On the other hand, respected colleagues and colleagues, this new salary system is costing as much as originally thought due to the upcoming elections. The figures go even to EUR 400 million, due to the whim of Minister Virant. 400 million euros is, I believe, very large, if not even too much for this country, and in fact, I will reiterate it that poverty is on the rise in our country. We will not oppose this proposal in the Lip Group of Members, but we will not support it either.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State from the Ministry of Culture, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Many things have already been heard in individual presentations today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. Whether Slovenian culture is richer or not with these changes and additions will show time. However, it is certainly one of the democratic moves made by the competent ministry, including at the request of the Constitutional Court. The main principle of this law is to equalise employment in public institutions in the field of culture with more than 20 employees, with employees in public institutions in the field of culture with less than 20 employees. And if we just look at the content of the amendment proposal, it's not a large-scale law for major changes under the number of articles, it's a substantive definition of 10 articles, but what kind of storms and engages those who are more involved in it refers to the proposal of Article 2 or the current Article 42, where the Institute's Council is mentioned. And what is it, exactly? Allow me to read the content of this article in the first paragraph, which reads as follows: "The Public Institution shall have a council composed of representatives of the founder, who shall be appointed by the founder and representatives of the institution's employees, who shall have at least one member and up to one third of the members in the world of the institution." Well, further in this article, the law defines the tasks of this Council. In this regard, there has also been a gruesome debate in the current substantive debates of this law, where we could somehow have imagined the wish of some who would like to remain as it has been, although the proposaler, the Ministry of Culture, has always stressed that it follows the decision of the Constitutional Court and in this respect is also substantively changing. And we see no dispute here, but we see progress in this regard, and we also see the consideration of the proposaler that the order of the Constitutional Court must be respected and that the ministry has also taken this into account. Of course, the content of some articles appears in some new content such as an audition, such as a champion and a top musician, which is also the contribution of the Ministry following the culture, relatively time-consuming also makes it meaningful and gives Slovenian culture sufficient legal basis in this area and the possibility that Slovenian culture does not appear in such a black light as some of them want to display here. As it is said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have always wanted and sought in this direction to ensure that the country, especially the Ministry of Culture, creates legal conditions and grounds for preserving Slovenian culture in order to follow the time and space in which it is located. Therefore, in the SDS Group, we will also support the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Comrade Bevk will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. The main objective or principle of the New Law on the realization of public interest in culture is to equalise the representation of employees in sacred public institutions in the field of culture. The offices of more than 20 employees in the holy institutions did not have their representatives. They only had their representatives in professional councils, and that's not enough. The regulation, which excludes the possibility of the participation of workers in the world of public institutions in the field of culture, thus did not provide them with any form of collective exercise of the rights to participate in the management of the institution. It is inconsistent with Article 75 of the Constitution, which expressly stipulates that workers participate in the management of economic organisations and institutions in the manner and under the conditions laid down by the law. Taking into account the legal powers of the Public Works Council, where employees are represented, cannot be considered as a means of exercising the constitutional rights of workers referred to in Article 75 of the Constitution. Such a summary of the decision of the Constitutional Court, when, in the framework of the constitutional procedure, at the initiative of the Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia repealed the first paragraph of Article 42 of the Fundamental Law on Culture and instructed the legislator to comply with the Constitution within 9 months. The legislator shall have discretion in the choice of ways in which workers are involved in managing the broad field. It is essential that the participation of employees in the management of institutions should be enabled. The Constitutional Court also states that the law can also grant a wider or narrower scope of rights to certain categories of employees in this category. In this case, unfortunately, the government has decided to tighten the rights of employees and in Novela has provided at least one to one third of the members in the individual board of the institution. This is what the Social Democrats object to. In our view, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, representatives of the staff of the institution should have at least a third of all members of the board of the institution. That is why, together with the LDS and Zares groups, we tabled an amendment that was drafted by the Association of Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia, but was unfortunately rejected on the Committee on Culture. Such a solution is also established in some other laws. Let me just mention the umbrella law on education and education. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that workers, with at least 1/3 of the members of the world, could better exercise their interests in institutions and thus ensure better management and functioning of cultural institutions. This would not result in different arrangements. For the government proposes that the institution itself decide how many employees could have in the world. This would result in different arrangements, which in our view would not be good for cultural institutions. Social Democrats are therefore committed to ensuring that employees have a wider and wider range of rights and participate at least a third in the Holy Offices. Labour co-management of employees would thus certainly be better quality and could only benefit institutions. Unfortunately, I have to rediscover that the debate at the parent's working body meeting did not go in the direction of dealing with professional arguments, but in the sense that it does not matter whether any proposal is good or bad, but rather who proposes it is more important. This debate also showed a pattern of current political behaviour and the level of political culture of today's power, which puts the argument of power first. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will not support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u99	Thank you very much. And we are done with the presentations on the views of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am also concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. That's what I'm breaking up with. I thank the Secretary of State for his participation. And we're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONCERN THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE VOLIVAL AND REFERENDUM COMPANY LAW, REFERENCE PROCESS. We have 55 minutes of debate available for this item. The draft law was tabled by a member of the National Assembly, Dr. Pavel Gantar. With regard to this bill, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration under the legislative procedure. As it is said, the Internal Policy Committee has a position on this law. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Drag Koren, to make us understand our position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Welcome to the Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Indeed, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, at its 44th session, considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign, submitted to the National Assembly by Member Pavel Gantar. At the outset, the Committee stressed that a new electoral and referendum campaign law had been passed in 2007, which had systematically re-organized the electoral campaign and, for the first time, the referendum campaign. According to the proposaler's assessment, the law is relatively good, but the new electoral campaign legislation also allows for emancipation within the legal framework laid down, which is also agreed by the Court of Auditors, which reiterates the inadequacy of certain provisions of this law. Mr Gantar also referred to the main solutions to the law. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the drafter of the law with proposals for amendments to the committee which he had proposed to the committee for adoption had fully followed the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the Government then said that the government agreed with the proposed amendment in several segments. However, the Government does not agree with the proposal to prohibit paid political advertising content and other forms of political propaganda that the political party would carry out between the date of the call for elections and the start of the electoral campaign. The activities of political parties are such that, by the very nature of their existence, they try to best present and bring their programming orientations, views, visions of the future mandate and so forth to the electorate. In the debate, the majority of the members of the committee expressed opposition to the bill. On the grounds, they argued that the issues of the electoral campaign were not well changed just before the parliamentary elections. Despite the fact that some of the solutions proposed can be agreed upon, the proposal for a law for those reasons is not appropriate. It was also agreed with the proposaler's position that it would make sense to consider reducing the duration of the electoral campaign, which could have positive consequences for both candidates and voters. The debate was also supported by a member of the Committee, in order to propose a reduction in the duration of the electoral campaign and a reduction in costs and stricter fines for certain infringements. Following this discussion, the applicant responded to some of the Government's concerns that political parties are in some kind of permanent electoral campaign and it is therefore impossible to separate the actions of political parties from the actions of the electoral campaign and the other political behaviours they continue to pursue in favour of the electorate. Finally, it was concluded that the law was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The text is also given by the bill's proposer, Dr. Paula Gantar, for a supplementary presentation or for presentation of the bill itself and the position of the home working committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to commend the president of the labour force, who gave a very detailed presentation of the event on the Committee, so that I may also be cut short by this debate. However, let me, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, speak a few words in favour of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Electoral Campaign Act, which took place on this short trip from its introduction into the legislative procedure through the examination of the labour force and will be buried today at the meeting of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues, there must be few people in this room who don't think that the election campaign is the cross and the problem, and they think anxiously about the time of the election campaign that is coming. There are many who would give much to change the election campaign in order to become more substantive, as well as less financial and organisationally demanding. I am not saying that the current law is not good, it has been fixed, it is better than before, but nevertheless, the innovation of the founders of election campaigns, various spin-off doctors sometimes exceeds all imaginations and is constantly trying to bypass or ignore the legal provisions in one way or another. The result is a regular audit of the Court of Auditors, where there is almost no party to run the electoral campaign flawlessly and in accordance with the law, as well as sometimes embarrassed parties and candidates who are unable to settle their accounts after the report has been completed and who hope to pay them off with future success in the elections. Election campaigns are becoming more and more "show business" in which everything else is important and decisive and the content and programming definitions are ignored. And it is we who, in this Chamber, can, if we choose to do so, make an end to it or at least partially change things by betting more on content and less on appearance and effect. As has been said, we have proposed reducing the electoral campaign from 30 to 21 days, many countries in Europe have only 3 weeks to campaign. We have banned the electoral campaign from the electoral campaign from the day of the electoral call until the start of the electoral campaign. We have determined that public opinion polls must have important data indicating the validity of the results of these data. We see that the customer has 5%, the second party has 5, 6, and we find this to be something in itself relevant, valid. In fact, the pattern and the constant error indicate that there is no difference at all and so forth. We have mentioned donations to political parties during the electoral year and have abolished the partial report of funds for the electoral campaign. The truth is, this is what we wanted to bring back with the amendment, because this would affect the very new candidates in the electoral process. Unfortunately, the debate was as it was, well summarised and our proposals were not respected, so this proposal did not receive support. I could even say that the paradox and perhaps some kind of irony was precisely that we were in the National Assembly yesterday when we voted in favour of a referendum, facing exactly such a pre-election campaign. We would like to avoid this, but I think it will have to be avoided at some other time and at some other time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We also have the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Public Administration, Mag. Roman Rep, who will present his position on the proposal of his mother's working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u104	Mr Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! In view of the fact that the Chairman of the Committee has already taken a substantive view of the Government, he could only mention a few concrete important facts further. Indeed, the Government supports and would apply certain measures to write and apply them on the first serious amendment of this law. I am thinking, above all, of raising the fines for sanctions provided for in the law, of an absolute more detailed breakdown of the data to be reported by the media in public surveys. We have witnessed many controversy in the past with this address. And certainly the Government also supports the solution by deleting the provisions that provide for the reimbursement of the budget costs. However, as mentioned here today, we cannot agree with the prohibition of paid political advertising content from the day of the call until the start of the electoral campaign itself. Whatever the case, political parties are in some way in a constant electoral campaign, and of course they are. And these specific provisions are written in a way that, in practice, could certainly not be implemented or implemented. Finally, they would also conflict with certain constitutional rights. Above all, I am referring to freedom of expression and freedom of assembly. Finally, I would also agree with the opinion delivered here today. That is, the time at which we are at the moment, right before the parliamentary elections, is not the most appropriate time to amend such legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The government spent a minute and thirty seconds. However, we are moving on to a presentation on the position of the parliamentary groups. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Ambassador Majda Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-known, distinguished President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague. After the 1994 Electoral Campaign Act, which was upgraded three years later, the electoral campaign starts 30 days before the day of the vote and ends 24 hours before the vote. There is no secret, however, that the electoral campaign, at least the most important state-level and presidential campaign, begins informally well before or before the elections. It is by their nature that political parties are trying to convince voters all the time with their programming guidelines and they could say that the campaign starts immediately after the elections and that political parties are in some kind of permanent electoral campaign. It is also usually so that the electoral machinery often shuts down the content and that it is money that dictates the pace. Newly proposed Dr. Gantar comes up with the following questions: Are we prepared to redirect the electoral campaign with restrictions and self-limits from externality to content? How to shorten from 30 days to 21 days? Strict sanctioning for a period outside the electoral campaign and the diversion and control of sources of funding. The actions of the electoral campaign carried out within the framework of the official electoral campaign and the other actions actually taking place in political parties at all times are not easy to distinguish and ask who and how to do so, but it is reasonable to increase the control of the acts and financing themselves at the time of the official electoral campaign, such as pre-election meetings, posters and the like, on the basis of law. We must admit that some of the solutions in the novel are good and that they are worth discussing. However, in the New Slovenia Group, we do not think it is good to change electoral legislation just before the elections. An informal campaign for the national elections is taking place in one way or another, the rules of the game are being avoided and it is not wise to change them during the event. However, it is worth thinking about after the elections, including the extent of funding. Because of this fact in the New Slovenia Group, we do not support and believe that it does not make sense to go into the next parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Member Marjan Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u108	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we agree with the proposaler's opinion that the electoral campaign must be geared towards content, a quality presentation of electoral programmes and candidates. We know that electoral campaigns have already turned into a real game without rules. The media is also adding their own, and in the end it's really just a media show. However, it seems to us that the solutions outlined by the applicant will not solve this problem. Reducing the electoral campaign to 21 days did not ensure that the electoral campaign will be more qualitative and more substantive. We also do not know how to assess which party activity is and which is not intended to give electoral messages. The activities of political parties are, by the very nature of their existence, such that they present their programming orientations, views, visions to voters in one way or another. It is therefore a political activity that we find difficult to share with electoral messages and other messages. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we would in principle agree with a solution proposing a more detailed breakdown of the data to be reported by the media in the public opinion polls, as well as the elimination of the partial reimbursement of the costs of organising and financing the electoral campaign from the budget. However, we cannot support the whole bill in particular because of the uncertainties I have already mentioned. However, we will probably all agree that it is not wise to take such solutions just before the parliamentary elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Comrade Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Of course, in the Group of Members, we will not really support the conclusion of the parent's working body. Even so, we cannot accept the view that it is not good for such laws to change just before the elections. However, we are not yet just before the elections, the elections have not yet been declared, and so on, it is said, but there is still enough time for us to adapt, if we adopt such a law, without having any effect on the very course of elections or anything, because this has not yet begun. Of course, the key point is the one presented by the Government that the Government is in no way in agreement with restricting paid advertisements from the day of the call for elections to the start of the electoral campaign by restricting the parties in fact, limiting free choice and even interfering with the democratic constitution of this society, since each individual and party has the right to act freely and so on, and also by claiming that there is a constant electoral campaign and that the parties are parties to the constant electoral campaign. This cannot be accepted, even if it is true for some parties or for all, if you want, we must not agree with it and we must change it. The parties are not and should not be in a constant electoral campaign. It is true that from the day they come to power or are in opposition, customers are judged on how they operate. Every day we are judged by voters, voters, the public, the media and so on and this is one and this is normal and this is reasonable and this is completely and only logical. Secondly, the electoral campaign itself, a time-limited period in which parties, political actors, such as individuals, the presidential candidate specifically urge people to directly convince them to vote for them and to give them access to power, one way or another. Here we must make this difference between the normal and regular evaluation of our politicians by the public and the electoral campaign alone. If we don't make this difference, then we will be able to have such an electoral campaign every day, we will be assessing the laws in this Parliament only in terms of whether they will benefit or harm us in future elections, and so on and so on, and I think that this story will not go well, and even in this mandate, if you ask me, it does not go well or it ends very badly. Therefore, I cannot accept such arguments, and I regret that at least some of the proposals, which have been adopted as, say, a request to supplement the surveys and thus have not been taken into account, could at least accept this. I certainly think that we have missed an opportunity today, and I think that those who come after us may fall for one marriage wiser than we do and will, however, take at least one of these once or something else and make it easier to choose. With content, we make it easier to choose both politicians and, above all, future voters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u112	Thank you. To begin with, I mention that the position, as well as the other thinking in the DeSUS Group, is almost entirely identical to what we have heard from the proposer. After I have heard that the fundamental weakness that we have identified in this proposal also disturbs the proposer himself and that he is willing to amend, we fully support this proposal for the law that is before us. Let me also mention that there is no way to identify electoral campaigns and political promotions of individual programmes, individual political parties. If we did that, it would be a complete mess, but it's true that some people, unfortunately, understand it that way. And because it is so misunderstood, even the public peacefully admit that all the time since they have been working on the political scene only for political campaign, for electoral campaign and not for public interest, for the welfare of people, for adopting smart laws to rationally spend public money etc., etc. Because of this fundamental error, we are also in the argument then in different positions. Campaigns are important. They also have an important impact on our lives, our daily lives. Now we will see, in June, what will happen and then in September, what will happen again. And you will see that it will not be a matter of substance, that it will not be a matter of anything that would really contribute to the development and progress of our society, but that it will be that people and parties and "teams" and I do not know who else will crucify the nation, the people, that they will try to stir up unrest, that they will follow the accusations, that they will follow the paid lies in newspapers and other media, that insults will become something everyday, and that we will become even insensitive, that we will no longer be alarmed about it. Because those of us who have been exposed long enough, those who are actually ready in advance for this kind of discredit, and so will also be in this year's campaigns, and we will have to stop all of this. In fact, we support everything proposed in this bill. We stress that we are not the only ones who support this. They also support the State Council, almost everything, also supports the Government, some of these proposed provisions. But it did bother us, and if this remained in law, we would oppose the law, discrimination against those who would like to reenter the political scene or those who are smaller and who do not have a tradition that does not have an organization that has no money loaded from before and would therefore be condemned in advance to failure. Since the proposaler spoke about if we understood him correctly that he was ready to propose a change of some of the provisions, he would probably be willing to agree to something else if, of course, the law had survived this first reading here in Parliament. Well, for these reasons, we'll back it up. And even if it weren't, we'd do well to support it. Because we do not agree with one provision in this first reading, we cannot simply say that it is not possible to continue to deal with it and to improve the bill proposals, which, on what other occasion, if we are doing it for our own good, we are keen to do. So, we will support this bill and we have the ambition to have less acceptable articles amended on the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I will present myself the position of the Lip Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u114	Once again a lovely greeting, honored present! Today we decide on a very simple fact - whether we give priority to content or give priority to form, only this is a matter of this bill. Before I tell you the position of the Lip Group, let me point out a story that happened to me. Usually people believe things only when they happen to us personally, individually. Everything else someone tells us, we take it with our left hand and it goes right past us. Not long ago, when I met one of the public opinion creators who later defined his results in the media. I guess I had a good day and the same person on the other side and we reached into each other's hands, and we went to "you" without knowing each other very well. Very quickly, in a two-minute conversation, I got, or even the first question I got was, "Sasha, would you like to have a better result?" Of course, at that moment, I looked at the little thing as a surprise and said, "Yes, of course I would like it." Like any president of a political party or any Member or anyone who believes in a political party, I would also like a high percentage in public opinion polls. But the response of the person with whom the communication was made was, "Well," - I was still very naive, surprisingly looking - and "Well" followed again and twice. Because at that moment I wasn't very quick in mind, the second and third questions followed: "...and is there anything for me?" I want to tell you that the proposal for a law sent to the Parliamentary procedure by the Zares Group solves a number of issues that are not correct in our country and in our country, within several dimensions, create an illusion. But no matter why the polls are important to us, politics? Basically because it is, confidence rises with a good result in 10, 15, 20%, but mainly because we are people, all together, so shallow that we like to identify with the winner without answering the question of why someone is a winner. And I received one study a while ago, according to my assessment very well, I believe that in all the election headquarters in all political parties, where it was found by analysts, "piars", people for contacts with the public, that there are as many as three of the ten Slovenians who are supposed to be undecided or possibly swinging among individual parties because of the dispersion of content, we know that there is no, on the left there is no, identify with the result published, so that in Del, Dnevnik, Vecer, in Democracy, wherever I do not list them. One reason why we support the proposed law. Because that percentage, half of the percent, maybe even five, would not be equal to zeros within the euro currency. And another reason. I almost couldn't believe some time ago that the creators or the organizers of the election campaign were from the media. Let us take a concrete example of RTV Slovenia, a question has been raised, it has also been addressed to the House of the National Assembly, a question to which every full-year citizen would be able to answer, obviously, something that I think is politically motivated, has begun to wonder which political parties are represented in the National Assembly. An extremely clear question, the answer is in the palm of your hand. Parties that have their representatives in Parliament. And why did they start asking that question? Because they are aware that the only and really only advantage where content actually predates form is the so-called electoral confrontation where content needs to be displayed. Very little there means form, like a nice tie or something. But it is obvious that the currents of some political parties, of course those, and we all know whose influences are so powerful that they are responsible for such institutions, public institutions, they ask the question which political parties are represented in the National Assembly. Thank you. We support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u115	Mr Kovačič will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues, colleagues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we do not support the proposed Novel of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign. Although some of the proposed solutions are worth considering and will be put into effect at some point in the future. However, it is not possible to agree with the conceptual amendment of the applicants by which they would sanction political propaganda or the practical only public action of a political party outside the electoral campaign period. Such a change would deny the very purpose of a political party acting in public all the time and thus promote itself and its political orientation. However, the Law on Election and Referendum Campaigns regulates or must regulate and also sanction specific activities at a pre-election time when the party's candidates and the party's programme are presented in the form and manner prescribed and in the case of infringements must also be sanctioned. Any broader intervention and a broader restriction on the activities of a political party outside this prescribed content and time frame of the electoral campaign would constitute an excessive intervention in the very sense of the existence of political parties and a multilateral political system. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party cannot agree with such a change in the concept of a multilateral system which would deny the very purpose of the existence of a political party, which is that it works all the time publicly, that the public informs about its work, that its activity is being promoted publicly and thus affects citizens and thus engages and fights for their affection all the time. And this action cannot be equated and linked with concrete activities, which are typical only for a short time before the elections, which must then be regulated and effectively regulated by the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act recently adopted by the National Assembly, which followed the requirements and proposals of the Court of Auditors, which had previously faced difficulties, due to the impossible or difficult supervision of the financial operations of political parties during the electoral campaigns. Because of this and also because it is not appropriate for pre-election rules to change practically just before the start of the electoral campaign, the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will reject the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u117	Mr Dušan Kumer will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Honourable Representative of the Government. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we do not oppose certain concrete ideas and proposals that are enshrined in this bill. However, we believe, like most here today, that the time for changes has not been chosen, it is only a few more than four months until this year's parliamentary elections, and it is true that just before it is not good, neither politically healthy nor wise, to change the rules of the game. In the Group of Social Democrats, however, we regret in some way that these ideas and proposals were not more energetic when we last amended the Law on Election Campaigns and Referendum. If I recall correctly, some of these proposals, which are now in this bill, have been discussed and offered at the time. Even if we remember, we coordinated with the Minister of Public Administration, but they did not get enough support here in the National Assembly, for example, to remind me of just one idea, that is to shorten the period of the official election campaign and what else could happen. However, it would not seem that today the celebration of all these ideas and these proposals in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats is, in some way, an appropriate way to mention the new autumn composition of the National Assembly, it is said that Members and Members should immediately begin discussions and adopt any amendments to the electoral legislation at the beginning of the mandate, as such amendments make sense if the organisers, in particular the organisers of the electoral campaigns, are also prepared for the campaign on the basis of clear legislation. This may also be one of the reasons why illegal things should then occur, and we must point out what the proposer himself has pointed out, and the Committee has also pointed out that it is not possible to mix the actual activities of political parties during the term of the mandate with an official electoral campaign, which means some planned targeted targeting of both political parties and individual candidates, whose goal is within a legal time frame, and now 30 days, achieve the best possible numbering result on the basis of programmes and convincing voters with these programmes, promises and commitments, and this numerical result of trust, which then also sets a place in this political map in the country, of course linked to an appropriate level of responsibility for the management and management of the country. In short, the content covered by this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electoral Referendum Campaigns is well known, and we know the problems, because we are direct actors in these activities, and we also know that this legislation is also an exclusive political issue, within which everyone is trying to create the best possible position for planning his strategies, tactics and so on. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will therefore not oppose the proposal itself, nor do we support the Committee's decision that this proposal is not appropriate with these ideas. However, given what we have previously stated before the parliamentary elections, it is not appropriate to change the rules of the game and we will abstain in this vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. The decision on the motion for a decision will be Apologize, Comrade Gulič, only my mistake. [[...]] The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Member Aleš Gulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u120	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Mr President! Thank you so much for noticing me. I won't be long. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. The reason is actually very simple: some electoral work, at least in the parties, I don't think it's here where it wouldn't have already started. The issues are also related to many other people involved in the electoral campaign: various agencies, assistants, etc. Thus, in essence, the amendment of the law just before the elections would still constitute a disturbance and, of course, a much greater possibility again for different interpretations, adjustments, etc. Otherwise, we accept many things from what has been proposed. Perhaps we could sharpen some things, in fact, and also link them to other campaigns that occasionally occur. Indeed, it is that the campaign actually lasts longer than it is written, that even that month is not enough, or even that there is not enough time to call. Of course, I do not mix this with the work of other political parties. This is something else, but we also need to look at everyday reality. After all, the campaign for this autumn's elections began in early December, and this is very strong. Thus, certain matters should be prohibited at a time before the date of the elections is announced, it is said, before the electoral process begins. The matter is not so simple and it is true to point out that the next composition of the National Assembly would decide on this, at least in the first half of its term of office, but also on something else; also on some law on Members or something that we all want and always want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Now we have really finished with the presentations on the positions of the groups. I thank the Secretary of State for his participation. We will vote on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body today, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL OF A MEDIATION LAW IN CIVIL AND ECONOMIC MATTERS, IN THE FIELD OF THE Regular PROCEDURE. I would like to inform you that we have a 45-minute debate on this item. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. With us is Robert Marolt, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members and other present guests! Today you have before you the proposal for a law on mediation in civil and commercial matters, the purpose of which is, in addition to the already adopted law on arbitration, to promote out-of-court resolution of disputes in civil and commercial matters with mediation. Mediation is one of the important forms of alternative dispute resolution in which a neutral third party helps to reach an agreement to resolve their dispute and re-establish their relationship. The role of the third party, the mediator, is thus to help the parties reach a negotiated solution to the dispute on their own and does not have the authority to take a binding decision. The proposed law pursues three important objectives. Firstly, mediation helps parties without judicial proceedings, i.e. without courts, to reach an agreement by resolving their dispute with a view to maintaining further correct personal and business relations. Such a solution is acceptable to all parties as they themselves form the content of the agreement and is therefore appropriate for both natural persons, craftsmen and other economic operators. The second objective, the mediation process is extremely informal, is simple and much faster than a court case that may take quite some time. This way of resolving disputes is therefore much nicer for the parties. Thirdly, mediation is much cheaper for the parties than judicial proceedings. The mediation process does not pay any fees and the costs of lawyers are significantly lower, as the parties reach an agreement and the payment of legal services is therefore not dependent on the success of the proceedings. Moreover, the presence of lawyers is not compulsory, only if the parties decide that they need help. The reason for the adoption of this law is also the gradual international harmonisation of the legislation of mediation pursued by the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law, the so-called UNCITRAL, which adopted in 2002 the Model Law on International Trade Conciliation. Mediation is one of the most widespread forms of alternative dispute resolution in Slovenia and has not yet been regulated by law. The proposed law contains general procedural and material provisions and principles of mediation law, such as: the impact of mediation on judicial proceedings, confidentiality in the mediation of disclosed data, the prohibition of their later use for evidentiary purposes, and the impact of mediation on the flow of obsolete and time-consuming deadlines. The proposed law also brings into domestic law a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain aspects of mediation in civil and commercial matters. That Directive was adopted on 23 April this year and is one of the major achievements of the Slovenian Presidency of the EU Council in the field of justice. The Directive was signed on 21 May, i.e. this week, and will be published tomorrow in the Official Journal of the European Union No 136. We are confident that the proposed law on mediation in civil and commercial matters will further contribute to the decision of citizens, citizens, entrepreneurs and craftsmen to increasingly decide on an out-of-court resolution of disputes, as the results in this area are also encouraging. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u123	Thank you very much. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law was regarded by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home labour force. This time, too, President Drago Koren will submit a report to the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u124	Good day to the representatives of the Government, Members, Members and our young visitors on the balcony. At its 44th meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal for a law on mediation in civil and commercial matters. At the outset, the Secretary of State said that the purpose of the proposal was to encourage the use of procedures for the peaceful resolution of disputes in civil and economic legal relations, to ensure a balanced relationship between mediation and judicial proceedings, in addition to the legislation already adopted on arbitration. Mediation in the broadest sense of the word is a central form of alternative or extrajudicial dispute resolution. The role of the third party, the mediator, is to help the parties reach a negotiated solution to the dispute on their own and does not have the authority to take a binding decision. As a result of the judicial backlogs, which have now been declining and are being phased out, new forms of mediation and conciliation are also emerging in practice. Their final aim is to reach a negotiated solution to the dispute between the parties, if possible before the commencement of the dispute. The key advantages of mediation are as follows. The procedure is cheaper, faster, customers do not have to pay court fees as well as high legal costs and the procedure is confidential. In practice, we already know different forms of execution, either before or during judicial proceedings or outside the courts. Therefore, the main objectives and principles of the proposed law are to establish legal solutions that will make mediation, in practice, even more attractive and interesting for the parties. The Righteous One [[?]] mediation has been taken into account that it is an extremely informal dispute resolution process, which does not result in strict procedural rules, except for some basic principles such as confidentiality, volunteerism, impartiality. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further said that the written comments of this service were taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. There was no debate among the members of the Committee. The amendments of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Articles 3, 4, 5, 7, 19 and 20 were adopted to the draft law. All of these adopted amendments are also included in the amended law, which is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u125	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u126	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members, Members of Parliament, Visitors. Mediation is a process in which participants, with the support of the mediator and taking into account the interests of all participants, try to resolve the dispute and reach an agreement. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we support the establishment of a new culture of dispute resolution, where it is not about who will be the winner or the winner, but about the parties taking the dispute into their own hands and essentially solving it themselves. In the creative process of finding a solution, there is an attempt to find a way to satisfy the interests of all parties. It is the mediator who, with his knowledge and special techniques, helps those involved to understand the other side, cooperates in finding solutions and helps to find for all involved feasible conclusion. The important thing is that the mediator is not a judge who would end up telling who is right and who is wrong. In court, the story is different, since the judge judges, but because someone is being treated as a winner and another as a loser, the trial continues too often after the judgment. Even when the story is legal, at least on the one hand, there is often a sense of fraud and the path of dissatisfaction and revenge can continue. Meditation is supposed to break this vicious circle. While the mediation has taken place in our country, there is still a need for legislation, which we believe will further encourage the use of procedures for the peaceful out-of-court resolution of disputes in civil and commercial matters. We are aware that the reason for the adoption of the proposal for a law on mediation is also the gradual international harmonisation of legislation, a mediation that the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law, which has already adopted in 2002 a model law on international trade co-ordination, is actively pursuing. However, the General Assembly of the United Nations recommended that States consider the possibility of enacting a model law in order to ensure the uniformity of the legal regime for the resolution of disputes. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the advantage of mediation is in efficiency, low costs, high performance rates and mutual acceptability of the solution. From the point of view of judicial backlogs, mediation is also very welcome, so we will support the proposal for a law on mediation in civil and commercial matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Ambassadors and Members, Mr Secretary of State. In the area of the role and development of dispute resolution systems, there have been completely new trends in recent years, resulting from the increasing frequency of conflict resolution and the increasing number of disputes being resolved, resulting in an increase in trial time and costs. The problem is also in the dissatisfaction of losers with a court decision and the continuation of proceedings in higher cases, where they have often ruled in total contravention with colleagues who have previously decided on the dispute, which, of course, leads to certain conclusions and doubts in the judicial system. Mediation is the most common form of alternative or extrajudicial dispute resolution. It is a procedure in which a neutral and trained third party, a mediator, helps the parties to reach an agreement that resolves their dispute and new relations. From the judicial and arbitral proceedings, mediation differs fundamentally in the fact that a third party, a mediator, does not decide authoritarianly in the settlement of the dispute, but only helps the parties to achieve a negotiated solution to the dispute themselves, which means that the solution is tailored to the interests of both parties, and certainly plays a decisive role in understanding the psychological background of the conflict. It is therefore essential to find a distinction between this and a judicial solution in which a judge must focus on legal matters and must not see what is the psychological background of a dispute or even a conflict within one party. Such a way of resolving disputes sometimes, especially in family matters, means that on this path a deeper human and communication dimension of the dispute can be lost and that such a perfect judgment in a legal sense can sometimes not be resolved by the psychological background of the dispute between the parties. The positiveness of mediation is thus reflected in the fact that parties to the dispute are more likely to participate in the process with their initiatives, and the agreement in the mediation can take on a much broader range of relations between the parties compared to the judicial decision, so it is also more likely that the settlement of the dispute will be permanent and there will be no new conflicts between the parties. Mediation procedures are faster, cheaper and can contribute significantly to reducing judicial backlogs. In preparing the legal framework for mediation, one of its essential characteristics was taken into account, namely that it is an alternative to judicial decision, i.e. an informal method of dispute resolution, where strict procedural rules and consistent application of substantive law are not applicable, with the exception of some basic principles such as confidentiality, volunteerism and impartiality, which contributes to the lack of a sense of reasonableness on the part of the parties. The proposal for a mediation law sets out those substantive frameworks that are necessary to take into account and ensure that the procedure is carried out and that the mediator leads the party to reconciliation. This means that mediation is not legally regulated in the same way as a judicial procedure, i.e. by strictly defining the stages of the procedure and the procedural actions of the parties and the mediator. Time in these procedures does not play any role, which is important for all participants in the procedure, so that they can carefully weigh all the possibilities of a solution and choose one that is acceptable to all. Moreover, during this procedure there are no limitation periods for requests which are the subject of mediation and no satisfactory party can still be used for judicial or arbitral proceedings. The bill is designed to encourage the wider use of mediation in civil and economic disputes, to ensure a balanced relationship between mediation and judicial proceedings, and to remove obstacles that could deter parties from participating in mediation. The proposal for a law is based on the recommendation of the Council of Europe and the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament, as well as the rules set out in the Model Law on International Trade Conciliation. The proposed law is deemed appropriate, so the Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u129	Thank you very much. My colleague, Happy Friend, will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, visitors! So, the law on mediation, the proposal of the law, in civil and commercial matters, is certainly welcome if we can find out together - we will probably all support it - that it is for the one who is just, and for the one who is somehow sued, this procedure can be cheaper, faster and, of course, also in the judicial sense eliminates some backlogs that would otherwise accumulate in the courts than the lawsuits. We are Slovenians, but we are a nation that enjoys justice, and so much more welcome is such a way of regulating contentious matters. Maybe there'll be fewer lawsuits from this address. Of course, it is essential for the Slovenian National Party not to use mediation for convicted offenders and victims of crime in this context. This would, of course, be absurd if this law were to foresee it and, somehow, it is acceptable to us as well. Cheaper, faster, more confidential - that is, a good purpose. But there's something I'd like to point out. Look, the law was passed 23. 4th of this year, or the Directive. Tomorrow it will be published in an official paper, European. We have made a great deal of effort to implement this law quickly or somehow become again liked by the European Union and to summarize this directive in the form of a law. I wish we were so fast, so efficient, so consistent in other matters. Especially in the social field! Maybe in regulating the rights of employees or somewhere else where traumas are much larger than here; for example, in health care. This, as has already been said, little government, a hand to the heart that we will not always be the best in the European class of countries and Europe and, of course, here again will be one plus for Slovenia, because this is really very consistent and quickly done. The law has twenty articles, the purpose of the law, as already stated by the interlocutors before me, is to regulate judicial proceedings, seductive proceedings, disputed proceedings with the help of a third party, and this is certainly in some way also a novelty. Perhaps it will also be more cost-effective because the fact is that if the defendant or the defendant does not choose a lawyer, it will also not be necessary and likely - and this is a stranger to me, perhaps a more question to the representatives of the Government: whether this mediator will be paid at least partially or in full by the State. That's what I'd like to know, maybe next time, if the government representative has a word to tell me. As it is said, the Slovenian National Party will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I'll present the position of the Lip Group myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u132	We have heard that the case will take place without delay; we have heard that the case will take place on an informal basis within the last few minutes; we have even heard that this procedure is user-friendly; we have heard that the cost of this procedure is zero in short, that it is an extremely cheap process. We have heard that there are no statutes in this process; we have heard that this is an extremely fast process and we have heard that the parties to this procedure themselves reach an agreement. Perhaps just a question to the representative of the government: Do you think that he is not afraid that the courts will be out of work? I mean, if we suddenly get a result that will be quick, valuable, effective, everyone will be pleased with it, then of course it is a huge mistake of all politicians, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, all the professions behind us, that we did not offer this legal mediation procedure to our citizens already, I don't know, in 1994, 1998, but we had to wait for the imported minds of the European Union, and that we have not incorporated the European Union directive until this year. As I recall, and believe me, I remember well, we had quite a few systems to improve the efficiency of the judicial system in our country; we hired foreign experts, we named seven thousand different projects to improve. We have replaced 20,000 laws, dedicated a small sea of financial resources to improving the judicial system, and now you come with the law that you praise, including the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - once again I stress those main features: quick, kind, efficient, no judicial backlogs, in short, something most wonderful, which is possible within this country. And that it would not be just that mediation would be valid in civil and legal terms. Of course, it's a wonderful thing, but not to create an illusion, but how everything will be different from now on. I personally believe that there is no regret - or no, I apologize, I take back - that it is not in the national sport of Slovenk and the Slovenians to sue in front of third parties, i.e. before a court of law. I believe that it is rare for someone in our country to come from Gorenjska, Primorska, Štajerska, from anywhere, so rich with time that he has nowhere to go and that he goes to court on purpose. I believe that the basic reason why disputes arise, judicial delays in the dissatisfaction of individuals, the dissatisfaction of companies, especially the need to look into bad legislation, is that we allow this anomaly, which in practice turns out to be a case before a court. I hope that through my words you will understand the criticism, because we will change at least one per month the law, any area of justice, honourable Members and Members. In the last six months, I think we've changed them for a month, even five or six, and it's always been said, and from now on, we're going to offer users of courts or citizens and citizens a bright future. As of today, the number of judicial backlogs in our country will rapidly begin to decline. It is my opinion that the legislative process, the procedure in which we are now and here, must also be so realistic and tell us where the scope of this system is which we are currently legislating. I think it is irresponsible of all of us to create that illusion of value, of kindness; how from now on everything will be positive. From this title, because we do not want to cooperate among you who create illusions in the Lip Group, we will not oppose this law, nor will we support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u133	Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Mediation, which is the subject of this law, is one form of alternative dispute resolution that has several different forms. They are characterised by the assistance of a third party offering independent and impartial assistance, while the categories of mediation differ in the course of the activities of that third party. The basic element of mediation is the full volunteering of the parties in achieving substantive solutions and also in the course of the process. This means that the agreement reached also corresponds to the interests and needs of the parties. It means an out-of-court procedure and, as such, constitutes an advantage over a classic judicial procedure in which procedural rules are applicable which must be followed by all in the proceedings between the judge and the parties or vice versa. In mediation, it is different and can be more freely controlled by the parties, or even if they can withdraw from mediation and apply, in an extreme case, judicial proceedings. As a result, part of the dispute or the entire dispute can be resolved in the mediation process much faster than the trial. The mediation process is confidential and allows a third party, a mediator, to identify the interests of the parties and thus direct the procedure itself with their consent. However, the procedure has another advantage, in a fair trial the court shall decide only in the context of the application, while in the mediation of the parties it shall enable the parties to actively form an agreement which, in addition to resolving the conflict in question, may regulate wider long-term relations between the parties. This means that the procedure can solve problems that arise in the course of the process itself or matters which are separate but which are somehow connected by the parties. Therefore, unlike judicial or arbitral proceedings, it can also resolve entirely illegal issues, which are often the real reason for the consequences resulting from the conflict. The full resolution of the dispute makes it more likely that a similar dispute will no longer arise between the same parties. It should also be pointed out that the court procedure normally establishes or leaves a certain degree of hostility between the parties, while mediation allows or is based on volunteerism, thus releasing tensions between the parties, which ultimately includes an element of trust. On the other hand, the mediation process, due to the necessary consensus, also removes difficulties in implementing the solution reached. In total, this means that the costs associated with mediation are relatively low, even due to the speed of the procedure and without unnecessary formality. Wider application of the said procedure can significantly help to reduce pressure on courts and thus improve legal certainty in the country. In the SDS Group, we support this proposal and will also actively cooperate to conclude that we have the appropriate text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u135	Thank you, too. My colleague, Miran Potrč, will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I will not repeat the content of the law, which is written in clear reasons why the law should be adopted, and in explanation what many of my colleagues and colleagues have done. I agree that the law is useful. It is one of the few issues on which the Ministry of Justice has proposed a regular procedure. It is one of the few that is clear and restrictive in content. Therefore, it does not aim to include in the content of a provision which would be politically motivated, where the Ministry would aim to open up issues with a wide range of differences or which will cause problems, which we are accustomed to when the Ministry of Justice proposes legislation. The law is extremely correct and I would like to see its content really not in the illusion that it can solve everything overnight, but help to resolve many issues that have not been resolved procedurally and substantively so far, also through a mediation process in favour of both parties in dispute or more. Especially in favour of quicker resolution of disputes. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the law and we would like to see more proposals for such laws on the part of the Ministry responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Member Drago Koren. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u138	Once again, a warm welcome to the Secretary of State, to the co-workers, Members, Members and all those present in the Chamber. In New Slovenia we are convinced that we have a good marriage before us and that if people serve it properly, it will also bring great benefits to individuals as well as to the country as such. I have to say that I wanted to say first that I am happy that the marriage is supported by the entire National Assembly, and now I have to fix it. I must say, I am pleased that no one in the National Assembly opposes him. It's very similar, but it's not exactly the same. Above all, I am pleased that we have been used to listening to bad laws themselves from the Ministry of Justice in recent times. Mostly major criticisms at the expense of the Minister and the Ministry. What we can find out today is that they are also able to draw up a good law in this ministry. In Slovenia, the problem is that the courts have large backlogs. I would just like to say that we Slovenians are a little bit inclined to argue that we like to press charges. But I know how bad it is when a small conflict deepens, deepens, deepens and leads to serious things, to severe hatred, I can say that people have many lives destroyed for the rest of their lives. And that is why, in our view, this mediation is so important in the view of New Slovenia, because if the matter is trying to be resolved at the beginning and it is to the satisfaction of both sides - what needs to be said, it is not an easy matter - then we can avoid many serious consequences. Also, the savings that those who choose to meditate can achieve are not negligible. Although I would say that in this case, even the material consequences, financial consequences are not as great as those that I have talked about before, that people are destroyed for the rest of their lives when they simply cannot swim out of this garden of complaints, accusations. That's why I think any matter that gets resolved with mediation will be important. I would just like these mediations to really try to serve everyone right at the beginning. It is true that we still have other out-of-court forms of dispute resolution such as settlement, arbitration and the like, but I am sure that mediation is the one most favourable to the parties. I would say that mediation in Slovenia has been going on for quite some time, that it also has positive results, but finally we also have a legal framework that will accelerate and enable this way of resolving disputes. It will certainly be the result of mediation and the reduction of judicial backlogs. In Novi Slovenija we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the amended bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Secretary of State for his participation. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE COOPERATION OF WORKERS IN THE DIVISIONAL SOCIETY OF CAPITAL SOCIETIES, IN THE context of a regular procedure. We have 43 minutes at our disposal for this point. He's supposed to give the word to representatives of the government or the ministry. Since they are not, I ask, do Members request their report? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can continue with the report of the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons as the parent working body. I ask the chairman of the committee who has already come to the floor to report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I'm here to say good-bye to everyone! Well, the Committee considered the proposal for a law on co-decision of workers in cross-border mergers of capital companies at its 37th meeting this month. Representatives of the proposer participated in the work of the committee, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Committee took note of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and commented on Articles 5 and 6 of the proposed text, and on this basis the four coalition groups tabled amendments. Since there is no representative of the government, I will also take on the performance of the representative of the government on the board. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the applicant presented a more detailed presentation of the purpose of the proposed law or of the legal solution. The aim of the proposed law on co-decision of workers in cross-border mergers of capital companies is, in particular, the transposition of Article 16 of Directive 2005/96 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe of 26 October 2005 on cross-border mergers of capital companies and thereby the full harmonisation of our legislation with the legal order of the European Union in this area. The principles and main solutions resulting from the proposal for a law are linked to the consistent transposition of the directive, to the appropriate terminology, substantive compliance with the corporate legal arrangements for cross-border mergers as laid down by the company law, while respecting existing national standards relating to co-decision of workers in the management of enterprises. Without discussion, the members of the Committee adopted the amendment of the four coalition parliamentary groups, and this amendment is also incorporated into the complementary draft law before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Meanwhile, Mrs Romana Tomc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, joined us in informing us of the content of the bill, which we have not yet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members. The opinion of the Government, before you is the Proposal for a Law on co-decision of workers in cross-border mergers of capital companies, which transposes Article 16 of the Directive on cross-border mergers of capital companies into the Slovenian legal order. This Article of the Directive deals exclusively with issues of co-decision between workers in a company resulting from cross-border merger. The other provisions of that Directive, which regulate the corporate legal issue of cross-border mergers and facilitate the procedures for such mergers, have already been transposed into our legal order by the adoption of the amendment to the company law. The transposition of Article 16 of the Directive is, of course, both substantive and terminologically linked to the solutions adopted resulting from the relevant status legislation. The draft law regulates the arrangements for the co-decision of workers in company bodies in the case of cross-border mergers, with detailed rules governing the negotiation procedure, the arrangements for co-decision of workers on the basis of an agreement and on the basis of law, and lays down principles for the protection of confidentiality, the protection of workers' representatives and the competence to resolve disputes. As has already been said, the basic principle of Article 16 of the Directive and the proposal of this Act is to take national provisions into account in regulating the co-decision of workers in a society established in the Republic of Slovenia, resulting from cross-border merger. Only if national law provides for a lower level of co-decision between workers than those of the other Member States from which companies are involved is an agreement on co-decision between workers in a merger society. If this agreement is not reached, the legal provisions of the codecision regime, which follow the requirements of the Directive and the principle of the highest standard of workers' rights involved in companies prior to this merger, will have to be applied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of individual parliamentary groups. Mr Ivan Jelen will re-present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u144	Thanks again for saying that. Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The principle of partnership is important in every relationship, including between employees and employers, in this specific bill proposal, with owners of cross-border capital companies or their administrations, and therefore the participation of workers in the management of companies is introduced both at national level and at European integration level. The whole system of governance and governance, including working representation or self-management, should be based on mutual cooperation and trust, which is difficult to judge today, at least in the light of domestic everyday practices in the field of labour. It is therefore so important that legal bases are laid down that will properly regulate the rights of workers to co-decision and require respect for this labour right. In our legislation, these relations between companies and employees are governed by the law on the participation of workers in management and the law on companies covering companies at national level, while at international level we have the law on the participation of workers in management - European cooperatives, the law on the participation of workers in the management of European equity companies, and they are the fruit of implementing European directives, and they are all rounded up together into a modern European model of companies. Today, too, a proposal for a law on co-decision of workers in cross-border mergers of capital companies is being considered, more or less, the result of the transposition of the European Directive and the substantive application of the corporate legal regime of cross-border arrangements as enacted by our company law, which makes the law purely of a technical nature. The directive is quite consistent and does not leave much room for manoeuvre to national legislation. Some of the freedom lies only in the question of the election and appointment of representatives of workers from a country to special negotiating bodies and to the bodies of companies, as well as issues related to the protection of confidentiality and the protection of workers' representatives and criminal provisions. It is also worth noting that the Directive already protects acquired rights in order to provide for the obligation to take the legal form of the exercise of codecision rights in the event of a merger of several companies into one cross-border society, if one of the merging companies has acted on such a system. So that there will not be too much repetition of the law itself today, let me conclude by stating that we support the proposal of this law, which represents another piece in the mosaic of transnationally organised forms of integration and codecision of workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I will present the position of the Lip Group on my own.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I am one of those who did not know what the content of Article 16 of the EP and Council Directive 2005/56-EC is. When I look at the explanations and the speeches, it is likely that they will continue to come to me from this place, that if I make a mistake, but above all my position is in terms of asking a question to the Secretary of State, but I know that I cannot answer it during today's debate, but it can answer today's decisions or votes. Thus, it is said that, at least that is what the applicants say, in line with the origin of the Directive on the Rights of Workers to Co-decision, the law provides that the national legislation of the Member States where the capital company created by cross-border mergers has its registered seat. I've read this in the context of your bill. With this title, what happens if an undertaking registered in Romania enters the market within the framework of another Member State of the European Union - or more specifically, the Republic of Slovenia, and decides to enter the market with a few times lower wage for the labour force? In other words, it is paying the labour force with a few times lower monthly income - how this will affect the competitiveness of the domestic company, i.e. the Slovenian company, in this case with the Romanian company. I believe you'll be able to tell me the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u147	Colleague School. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would protest against such a way of leading, otherwise against the President of the Assembly, who must ensure that the National Assembly, when it works, always has a chairman. Look, this is a very unusual situation, so it can happen that the National Assembly works without having a president. If we return to the beginning when the National Assembly is formed, you will see that the final condition is that it is also established to elect the President. Without that, he is not, and he represents him outside and the President and those who replace him, of course, provide the conditions for working in the National Assembly. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I know you don't have a problem with any rules. [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm sorry, I have problems with that, and I can ask, and I think it's a very important question. If the President of the National Assembly, Mr Tsukati, as well as the other Vice-President, can sit for hours and hours and nights in order to be able to give a voice, they must also make sure that they are in the Chamber in order to be able to act. You won't find a parliament that works without a president. I've never seen this before, and I'm asking that these things be settled. But if it is not up to anyone to be president of the National Assembly, but that he is in the service of a party, let him say it and let this party determine who is willing to exercise the presidency. The big question is whether a congregation can work without having a president or someone to replace it. Take this as an extremely serious warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Maybe I'll take it into account. Ms Eva Irg will present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u150	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Madam Ambassador, Members of Parliament! It is once again a matter of transposition of the European Directive, this time for transposition of Article 16 of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 26 October 2005 on cross-border mergers of capital companies, which deals exclusively with co-decision issues in a company resulting from cross-border merger of capital companies. The Directive primarily regulates the negotiation process, regulates the codecision of workers on the basis of an agreement and on the basis of law and lays down the principles of confidentiality. It also provides for the protection of workers' representatives and for the competence to resolve disputes. The proposal for a law in the vast majority of articles summarises the provisions of the Directive and in some cases, when explicitly permitted by this Directive, it also introduces an original national regime. In particular, on the issue of elections and the appointment of representatives of workers from a country to special negotiating bodies and bodies of companies and issues related to the protection of the confidentiality and protection of workers' representatives. In this mandate, when many colleagues, mainly from opposition groups from day to day, repeat the phrases of how unprotected workers are, at least in my opinion, concern for their friends in the leadership of such and different trade unions, we have adopted a great deal of laws in the National Assembly that implement European rules of play in this area. Let me mention the law on the participation of workers in the management of the European company, the law on the participation of workers in the implementation of the European cooperative, the law on European Councils of Workers, etc. It is also important to stress that, after many years of coordination and despite different adjustments from different sides, we have also adopted a law on working relations, which gives much attention to cooperation, co-decision and worker protection. We have further adopted the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, where we have also laid down legal frameworks for the protection, cooperation and co-decision of workers in the development of enterprises. We have amended the company law, passed the law on job prevention and employment in black, and we have also regulated the employment of foreigners. So there has been a lot of effort in this mandate, in my opinion and in our opinion, by the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the right direction, to enable workers to cooperate and co-decision in the development of businesses and also to protect themselves from various pressures. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the law, as will many others, which improve the possibilities for cooperation, codecision and protection of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Member of Parliament and Members! Slovenia has to a large extent faced the adoption of the European acquis before 2004, and has therefore adopted all the legislation necessary to make them comparable at this legal level as regards the operation of economic operators, as well as the rights of workers and their protection. It is therefore understandable that in this mandate too, we have repeatedly faced the adoption of directives and their implementation in individual laws. These were already listed, and I'm not going to repeat all of those. In this regard, I am more interested in the question of how much openness we have accepted those options that are allowed and allow for individual rights, in particular in the management of workers, to be better regulated in national legislation than at the level of European legislation and as required by the Directives. The law we are talking about has already been repeatedly mentioned, it has been transposed into our legal order the so-called 10th Directive and, more precisely, its 16th Article. However, the fact that negotiations have been held within the framework of the European Union on how to implement this shows that we do not, however, witness to any appearance or regulation of a legal issue which would be unanimous, homogeneous and simple for all members of the European Union. What seems particularly important to me right now on behalf of the Social Democrats is that the purpose of this law is to ensure the rights of workers to co-decision acquired in companies involved in cross-border merger of capital companies. And the codecision provisions do not have to be laid down only for those cross-border capital companies that did not have those rights regulated in all their scattered parts, all others must be regulated by law. And that seems to me, as it were, essential. This achieves the standard that is typical of the European Union, which is that the participation of workers in the management of the European Union is an important element of the European social model. And we remind Social Democrats of this whenever the word applies to the right of workers to co-manage, when some wish to attribute to our positions some nostalgia with the previous system of labour self-government or when they want to challenge the representativeness of either the workers' councils or trade unions in protecting this right to co-management. And when we talk about what the principles and provisions of this law bring, then let me specifically point out that what is at least at some point in the national legislation is crucial. And in this context, I should like to draw particular attention to the proposal of the Social Democrats on the authentic interpretation of Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act, which we have tabled precisely because the implementation of the legislation shows that despite the satisfaction it brings to us when we list the laws that have already been passed, we find that life nevertheless has its legality and is also aware of violations of the legislation adopted. The adoption of Article 16 of the 10th Directive, therefore, should once again be an opportunity to draw attention to how laws should also be implemented consistently. The social democrats will be supported by the law on which this is addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u154	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In particular, excessive mergers and acquisitions have increased in the 1990s, i.e. during the period of intense globalisation, deregulation and economic expansion, with which the integration of non-state borders has risen unbelievably. This, of course, has great implications for the concentration of capital, for the emergence of a cross-border monopoly, monopolisation, global monopolisation and, of course, the consequences. Therefore, today, the global economy of the economy forces different forms of cross-border cooperation and integration. In Slovenia, too, we thought when we opened the door and window to export our goods, services, capital, it was just a one-way road. In fact, we have achieved something else. That there was also capital, including monopolistic connections, even international, through this door and window, and that we actually have Asian tigers in trademarks, in goods, in capital, and we need to respond to that. The acquisitions are further strengthened and such a law, which would give a greater role, a greater emphasis, a greater burden on capital, is fully appropriate and is suitable for workers to participate in these companies that are also connected across borders. Of course, we wonder whether this is a sufficient measure to prevent world tycunization. And the second question is, how do workers who participate in such teams not become an integral part of these teams? And, of course, it's happened before. So such a law, which increases the participation of workers in management, certainly cannot be opposed and needs to be supported because it has positive objectives. However, it is necessary to ask whether it will also be necessary to do something about the world’s monopolies. For some countries, cross-border mergers are prohibited. And even within the framework of the European Union, when we talk about directives, about European regulation, concerning the participation of workers and monopolies, it will be necessary to make the word more clear, and also the action that would not happen to us. When we talk about co-management, social dialogue, there is also a need to mention responsibility. It's not enough that you're involved, it's that you're responsible. It was mentioned that there are also certain violations in our country concerning workers in co-management. This is not a problem, it is certainly not a problem of regulation and a problem of the National Assembly, but of law enforcement. If you are stating that a company has happened to have been suspended, a worker's representative has been unjustifiably suspended and then it has been found that the legal norm endures and is sufficient, it is not a legal norm problem, but a problem of law enforcement authorities and those involved in exerting pressure on workers. We have legislation properly regulated, and I am pleased that at a time when I had the opportunity, from the point of view of the executive and the lawmaker, to prepare these documents. I am pleased that this European legislation and also some higher standards, such as those at European level, have been established in Slovenian society and Slovenian legislation. But that's not enough. I just spoke to the representative of Ukraine yesterday. They also have a large part of this European legal order, but in practice they still have a strong limp, because the law enforcement authorities and others involved are not part of crime, which, of course, includes abuses through the dominant position of the monopoly. And there are certainly plenty of monopolies in our country, which also raise inflation and cause dissatisfaction and injustice for individual citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Ambassador Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me start by saying that, because I had heard a little bit earlier the extent of the work called for this time, this time Parliament has done in the field of the implementation of our legislation with the EU, that this work is very small in the case of what it has done and has done well on this segment. and it also had to do so that Slovenia could enter as an equal member of the EU in all areas. It is true, however, that the proposal of this law, which is of a highly technical nature, is already seriously delaying. The directive on the basis of which we need to harmonise our legislation gave the deadline of 15 December last year to do so. But we'll do it half a year late, but nothing bad. It is important that this is resolved as soon as possible, just so that we know where the quality and order of work is. In our parliamentary group, we will support this bill because it is some kind of technical procedure to introduce the requirements prescribed by this Directive into our legal order and also a summary of those elements in the Company Act, the Law on the Co-ordination of Workers in the Management of Businesses and in the Labour Relations Act, which is already absorbed and must also be understood here as a right, in particular the right of both workers and workers, even when they appear in a society that has cross-borderly merged with a mate. It is essential for us on this issue that effective control and action will be put in place in practice to implement and monitor the application of this law when something positive, such as this law is being addressed, is being misused. This is a key issue and we expect that. We will support the marriage, as we have done many similar things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u157	Thank you, too. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I also conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the amended bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. That's what I'm breaking up with. And we're moving on to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REVENUE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGAL REVENUE Tax Act, reduced procedure. There's a mag with us. Mr Andrej Šircelj, State Secretary, who will also have an introductory explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The basic purpose of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax is to eliminate some of the incompatibilities of the law in question with the law of the European Union and the European Economic Area, and to ensure that banks obtain easier financial resources in the financial markets. Thus, the draft law amends three articles of the current law, namely Article 19, which regulates interest between connected persons, Article 59, which provides for relief for the grant, and Article 70, which provides for a tax deduction from certain incomes. The amendment of the law, which is not related to European directives, is the removal of the tax evasion from the major interest paid by banks, regardless of who, the interest is paid, or to other banks, financial institutions or other companies other than banks or financial institutions. There is only one exception. This exception means that the exemption from the withdrawal shall not apply where the bank pays interest to persons in countries where the general tax rate applicable to the taxation of profits is less than 12,5 % and such a State is published on the list of countries published by the Minister of Finance. In these cases, however, it is tax oasis. As I said in the introduction, this solution also makes it easier for financial crises in some financial markets to provide financial resources through borrowing from domestic banks abroad and not just in the interbank market. Of course, such a solution will also have a positive impact on the economy’s easier acquisition of loans or cheaper loans. However, the amendments and additions made under the European Directives are to allow for the benefit of the Directive governing the payment of interest between connected persons from different Member States of the European Union. In particular, it is possible for the taxable person to demonstrate that the recognised interest rate established by the loan law between connected persons is not a market interest rate for him or him above the recognised interest rate. The following amendment implies an extension of the grant benefits, under the applicable law only to residents of Slovenia and the Member States of the European Union, and with an amendment it is possible for the European Economic Area to receive grants. These countries are Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland. The set of amendments relating to taxation of tax withdrawals in Slovenia on the payment of dividends to non-resident companies in the EU and the European Economic Area and on the payment of interest and dividends to investment funds and pension funds, which are also members or residents of the European Union and the European Economic Area, also applies to them, if these recipients in their country are not actually able to apply the tax paid in Slovenia, then this tax shall not be deducted from the source in Slovenia. In this way, the same treatment of domestic companies and those foreign recipients shall be equalised. Dear Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to support the proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Bojan Starman, to present his position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice hello to you all! At its 39th meeting, on 7.5.2008, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on corporate income tax submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At the College of the President of the National Assembly, it was decided that the law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. We have obtained an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments on Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Act. However, I must say that the comment to Article 4 has been taken into account in the amendment tabled by the coalition groups. The proposed law was amended by the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of the Retired on 25.4.2008, to that effect. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meeting. It has been said that the amendment to the law practically concerns harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union in areas for which the Republic of Slovenia has also received official reminders from the European Commission. The debate raised the question of the possible financial consequences of the adoption of this law. Representatives of the government said that in 2007 the total amount paid was EUR 3 million. However, the consideration of amendments to the law covers only a small part of the residents, since that was the amount paid by all non-residents. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee then identified the amendment of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and adopted it and incorporated it into the amended draft law for which it is proposed to be adopted by the National Assembly in accordance with Article 133. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. We will not hear the views of the Lip Group due to the procedural request of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. That is why Comrade Bojan Starman will give his position to the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u162	The Group of Members will support that proposal, which it has put forward for adoption by the Government. It is essential to bring the rules into line with the European Union, on the basis of initiative and given that this is not in line with the acquis of the European Union. The possible consequences of this non-compliance would be significantly greater than in the second case, and it is true that the issues that have arisen here on several occasions have shown that some economic institutions have also disagreed with this mode of regulation in our existing law and have put domestic institutions in a worse position than others. That is why this will also have a positive impact on our economic financial situation, and that is why the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Member Cyril Testen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also to the representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. The new law on corporate income tax does not make significant changes, but is based on the harmonisation of the provisions with the law of the European Community, the Agreement on the European Economic Area and the Directive of the European Council. In the New Slovenia Group, we see no reason not to support the amendment of the law, which will remedy the incompatibilities identified by the European Commission. The corporate income tax is paid by legal persons who make profits in business, regardless of whether they are engaged in a profitable or non-profit activity. In the proposed amendment, the taxable person will be given the opportunity to provide evidence concerning possible business reasons on the basis of which it will be found that in his case the market interest rate is actually higher than the recognised interest rate. In addition, the proposed novel will ensure further development and economic growth in the context of the financial crisis, which our domestic banks have felt in particular when borrowing abroad. The amendment of the law eliminates tax evasion for interest payments paid by banks, unless payments are made to countries with a tax rate below 12.5%. This will make their business a little easier, as they now have to pay 15% of the interest tax after deduction. The amendment of the law also brings new innovations in the facilitation of contributors to donations, which are different across countries. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the addition of an article that will also consider taxpayers as tax concessions for the amounts of payments in money or in kind for certain purposes which have not been adequately adjusted so far for residents of the European Economic Area countries. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that. All present, once again, a warm welcome. In front of us are the amendments and additions to the Law on corporate income tax, prepared due to the European Commission's warning of the possible incompatibility of certain provisions under the Treaty establishing the European Community, namely, the problematic provisions relating to the proof of market interest rates, which are provisions governing tax incentives for grants and will now be possible for residents of the European Economic Area. In addition, a very important change is being made, namely the abolition of tax deductions from interest payments paid by banks to all recipients, which is intended to make it easier for banks to operate primarily in the current somewhat tight financial conditions in the world. We in the SLS Group estimate that these are important technical changes to the law, which we will also adopt without reservation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with this by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal, I am also concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the context of the half-hour vote, which means 3 p.m. Until then, say good-bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-23-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u168	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please calm down, take your seats and check the operation of your voting device. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal for a law on the real estate conversion of the share of insurance companies to which natural persons are entitled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of Article 2 of the Social Democrats Group. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 36. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment was not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on the Slovenian Export and Development Bank. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled to Article 18. The first is the Social Democrats' Group, or we are voting first on the first amendment to article 18 of the Social Democrats' proposal. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 40. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now moving on to a decision on the second amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to the same article. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 18 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendment adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 10. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on electoral and referendum campaigns is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, for 49, for 8. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the law has been adopted or that the decision has not been adopted, and therefore the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned item 5 of the agenda - third reading of the draft law on mediation in civil and commercial matters. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I'm informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the law would not be harmonised because of the amendments adopted on the home labour body. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, for 63, against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 9th item of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Law on co-decision of workers in cross-border mergers of capital companies. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the law would not be harmonised because of the amendments adopted on the home labour body. We're voting. 65 Members and Members present, 64, against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on corporate income tax. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. In the end, I ask Members and Members to take the material with you, because an interparliamentary meeting between the European Parliament and the US Congress will be held tomorrow and Sunday in the Grand Chamber of the National Assembly. I'm adjourning the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll continue on Tuesday, May 27th, 9:00 p.m. Thank you for your time and a nice weekend!
