ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Jakob Presečnik, until 16:00, Feri Horvat, Alojz Posedel, Victory Jelinčič Noble. We're moving to 18. It's on behalf of the supervisory board of the Slovenian Indemnity Society D. D. FOR THE PERIOD OF MAY 2005 - DECEMBER 2006 AND REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY COMMITTEE OF THE SLOVENIA COMPANY D. D. FOR THE 2007 YEAR The report was submitted for consideration by the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Compensation Society. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee, Mr Victor Robnik, for an additional explanation. Here you go, please. Mr Mag will also have a word. Marko Pogačnik, who will complete the first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Greetings to all, Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, also to the members and members of the Commission for the supervision of public finances who conducted their hearings correctly at the 44th and 50th meetings of the Commission for the supervision of public finances. The reports addressed today by the National Assembly have been transmitted to the National Assembly by 21. 12. 2006 for May 2005 - December 2006 and 27. 12. 2007 for the 2007 period. This proves that the Supervisory Board carried out its task in time. I would like to add only the following in view of the time taken, but also in view of the debate that has been held on the Commission and the reports that you already have before you. However, it is related to work and the role of supervisory committees. Careful definition of the content, supervision of the work of the Supervisory Board in Article 20 of the Act on the Slovenian Indemnity Fund and the equally modest dictatorship in Article 33 of the Statute of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, which interprets the role and content of the work of the Supervisory Board in an identical manner, namely that the Supervisory Board has five members appointed by the National Assembly and that it supervises the legality of work and the financial functioning of the Fund. Such a definition means that it is also what this body is supposed to be dealing with. However, since I believe that this National Assembly - and since the company has been operating for a number of years, and knowing that surveillance issues are often replaced and linked to management, which is in the other body's domain, the role of the Supervisory Board should be defined more clearly or possibly terminated after a thorough assessment. On the basis of such dilemmas, the five-member Supervisory Committee has defined the content of the work on the basis of its own programme. We were also led by this approach by a substantive discussion at the March 2006 meeting of the National Assembly, when the report of the last Committee of the previous composition was considered and it mainly revolved around the correctness of the strategy chosen to settle the obligations of the company to the various beneficiaries under the Slovenian Compensation Fund Act. The Company’s Supervisory Board shall not, for example, take a decision on the transfer of investment management to foreign or domestic persons, which shall be the responsibility of the Management Board. Nor does he participate in the preparation of a proposal for a financial plan on which the Management Board gives its consent. It does not even propose conclusions to the Management Board, which is in the company's director's domain. Therefore, the post-festum shall determine whether the activities carried out in the domain of the Management Board and the Director of the Company have been carried out correctly and in the manner laid down in the company's legislation and internal rules. Both reports, which were also addressed by the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, show that the Supervisory Board reviewed the work carried out in the field of denationalisation procedures in the field of the sale of company capital investments in 2006 and 2007 as well as other areas of company operation, public procurement, company operating costs, organisational acts and so on. On randomly selected cases of procedures carried out, we have become convinced of the correctness of the approach taken by the Supervisory Board. Which, after all, is detectable. At least that's what I understand from the conclusions of the Commission. The reports explain that the company’s management respects the framework in which it operates and that the infringements have not been established. However, some of the shortcomings we encountered in the examinations were a warning to the company’s management that they must be addressed. The resolution of denationalisation matters in the view of the Supervisory Committee shall be in accordance with the plans adopted. Only the business of the company with the first signs of improvement already in 2006 and in particular in 2007 has a legitimate optimism that the settlement of all future obligations will not burden future state budgets or taxpayers. The number of cases examined based on random selection is considered to be too small in relation to the number of business transactions carried out during the financial year. On behalf of the Supervisory Board of the Court, I can say that the Supervisory Board is not a parallel service in the administration of the Court, which would verify any decision taken by the Management Board or the Director of the Company. But it does so on the basis of an agreed number of checks. The view that a greater number of reviews will only reveal illegality is also a sign of distrust in the work of the company and the supervisory committee. The Slovenian compensation company is on the day 31. 12. 2007 reported the following data. The legal obligations were paid at EUR 176.9 million. Capital investment sales accounted for EUR 275,6 million. The above amount increased the inflows from Western deposits and debt securities amounting to EUR 130 million. The company’s assets are on the 31st day. 12, 2.5 billion euros, representing a 57% increase in 2006. The business outcome, however, shows EUR 92.8 million in profits. Expecting the Supervisory Committee to carry out its mission satisfactorily and in accordance with your expectations, as well as the Commission's report on the supervision of public finances.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u3	Dear Mr. Robnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u4	I'm closing my allowance and thank you for listening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u5	Thank you very much. In doing so, both of them have exhausted the expected time to present themselves in this way. Mr. Mag. I can't give you my word. The report was considered by the Commission for the supervision of public finances as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Vice-President Bredi Pecan to present the Commission's joint report. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good morning to all present. The Commission for Public Finance Supervision is still in the role of the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances at its 44th session A, can you lift this up a little bit? [[...]] Sometimes others did it for us. and subsequently at the 50th meeting in the Commission’s role in the supervision of public finances, discussed the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society for the period May 2005 - December 2006. [[...]] In addition, at its 51st regular meeting, the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Compensation Society for 2007. In the introduction, the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee said that the Supervisory Committee had dealt mainly with matters they considered to be within their competence and that they had also grown up. In his view, it is not the task of the Supervisory Board to verify whether the management policy and the company strategy are appropriate or not. However, they assessed the impact of management and strategy on the achievement of the objectives. Several questions were raised in the debate concerning the coverage of obligations incurred by the Slovenian Compensation Society in relation to the laws under which it is incumbent on the beneficiaries to settle their obligations. It was also said that the current favourable situation of assets and liabilities was due to two facts. One is the favourable movement in the capital market and the growth of shares. Secondly, the fact that the public funds and thus the Slovenian Compensation Company have switched to the application of international accounting standards that have improved the performance of operations due to a higher valuation of investments. The company’s director opposed these findings and argued that such a favourable result was due mainly to the correct measures and changes in the company’s investment strategy. It was further pointed out that on 14 June 2007, the Government adopted a decision imposing on the Slovenian Compensation Society, on the basis of which information on the denationalisation of the denationalisation proceedings, not more than an appellant against the decisions of the competent national authorities when it comes to deciding on the eligibility of the denationalisation application. In this regard, according to the members of the Commission, the Government has violated the Denationalisation Act, seized the power of the Slovenian Compensation Society and, at the same time, increased the possibility that the obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society could be increased. The Commission considered that the Government must explain why it had adopted such a decision. Some members of the Commission also considered that the Slovenian Compensation Company is in some cases too fast to sell shares in well-established companies. It can happen that because of the way in which we have seen this privatisation in Mercury, for example, a manager's buy-in with loans that are charged only by the company, these companies will be liquidity-exhausted and will have no development opportunities. At the 51st regular meeting, as stated on 19 February this year, we considered the report for the 2007 review committee period. In the introduction, the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee said that at the seven meetings, the Supervisory Committee addressed all the areas in which the Slovenian Indemnity Society deals: property sales, denationalisation procedures, property management. He argued that the operation of the Slovenian Compensation Company was transparent, in accordance with legislation and also successful. According to the company director, 2007 was the most successful in the history of the Slovenian Compensation Society. They paid about €176 million in legal obligations. On the other hand, they sold 41 capital investments. Inflows from capital investments amounted to around EUR 255 million. Inflows from Western deposits and debt securities are around 61.6 million. The net business outcome for 2007 is estimated to be around €90 million. The company's assets increased by more than 61% compared to the previous year. In his view, however, the key issue is that the amount to cover the total legal obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Company until 2016 has gained a positive trend of more than EUR 635 million. This result was mainly contributed by the investment strategy to the free investment of liquid assets in more profitable investments and the purchase of the Court's own bonds. Several questions were raised in the debate, which were answered by representatives of the Slovenian Compensation Society. The biggest debate was the decision of the Government requiring the Slovenian compensation company not to act as a complaint against the decisions of the competent national authorities in the denationalisation cases. The representatives of the Court explained that they understood this decision by not complaining about the grounds on which the rights of the beneficiaries were established in the proceedings. Of course, the Slovenian Compensation Society still has the right and the possibility to complain at the level of the amount. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Nevertheless, the majority of the members of the Commission felt that this was a harmful and even illegal decision of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u7	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u8	Would you finish it if I could?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pechanova. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Milan Friday has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u10	First, on behalf of the LDS Group, I should like to express a strong protest that the Government does not sit at this meeting. Among the Commission’s conclusions on public finances supervision is one decision requiring the Government to clarify what the reasons were for adopting a decision on 14 June 2007 on the accelerated form of sales or denationalisation procedures and not to complain about it. The government isn't here. We can't get an answer. All of this shows that the government actually has an attitude towards this Parliament in the way we in the Public Finance Supervisory Commission find it completely underestimating all the time. With this absence today, the under-appreciative attitude towards Parliament also shows. And I hope that, after discussion, there will also be a certain consistency to the government. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that this report, which we are considering today, is not a report on the informal group of four individuals who, before the meetings of the Government - about these talks by Andrijana Starina Kosem - decided and discussed whom and when something will be sold. And in this group, according to the information we receive through the media, the director of the SOD also sat. So there's no report on this group. But it is a report by the carefree body of the Supervisory Committee, which, by some cross-sectional method, has selected proposals or sales that we do not know, have been found for comparison or processing. This report is not a report on the review of the procedures for the most sophisticated sales. We all know we're talking about Mercator, Iskraemec, IBI Kranj. But, as I said, there is an organ report and it will probably have to be considered in the future. It acts as a carefree body that chooses sales cases. Not by how and what the values are, what the significance of the Court’s assets is, what the importance of the Court’s relationship with its obligations. But by some transversal method, where essentially irrelevant companies or sales of irrelevant companies in which the Court has a State reads its share. And the denationalisation procedures are being reviewed, which in fact do not say anything. The quality and understanding of the work of the Supervisory Board shows that, despite the fact that their rules provide that they are familiar with the decisions of the Management Board, they did not require further clarifications on, or deal with, the most critical and up-to-date sales, or accept any duties or decisions on, such sales. And of course, such a way of working does not give much opportunity to create, at least in our opinion, an objective review of the overall operation of the SOD and may even find some error in these reports presented by the Supervisory Committee to the National Assembly and earlier to the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. So there are no mistakes. Otherwise, the figures and financial statements of the SOD show an improvement in the performance of the business. These are the facts. However, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we estimate that this and such cooperation is a favourable state of property and obligation coverage. It's probably due to two facts. One is the favourable movement in the capital market and the growth of the stock. Secondly, the fact that public funds, including the Court of Justice, have moved on to the application of international accounting standards that have improved the performance of operations due to a higher valuation of investments. However, the Director objected to such findings. However, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, he did not convince us about it and did not convince us otherwise. As I said earlier, there is an important segment between the conclusions that we are considering today, including the conclusion that the Government is 14. At the time of its consideration of the denationalisation process, it adopted a decision imposing on the SOD not to act as an appellant in matters of denationalisation against the decisions of the competent national authorities when it comes to determining the eligibility of the denationalisation application. Such a decision is unusual. Such a conclusion raises doubts. Such a conclusion shows that someone wants to cover things as quickly as possible and get under the table. I think it is my duty for the Government to provide an explanation at today's meeting. And I hope that in the meantime, someone from the government will join us. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the way the Slovenian Compensation Society operates is also an expression of the political affiliation of the leadership of the Soda. And that from many actions, the decision of those who are public, and especially those who come gradually and slowly to the plan, there is also suspicion of customerism and corruption. We all know Mercator's famous case when the President of the Government negotiated Mercator's sale without having the power or actually the right to discuss this sale. It is true, however, and it is not to be forgotten that the President of the Government is also, in some ways, the President of the Assembly of the Court. It's the SOD Assembly. However, this assembly did not meet as a body, neither did Mercator, nor did the President of the Government formally confirm and deal with this. But the thing was hiding in the cabinets. Some, however, have made the sale, but they have persisted in rejecting it. Another example is the case of Iskraemec, which is also characterised in some way by how government policy affects business operations and in its image. In 2006 he tried Engrotuus as a strategic owner, so we all understood, bought and thus saved Iskraemec from problems. However, both Kad as a Court blocked the recapitalisation or the desired recapitalisation by Engrotush. After that time, the situation became clear today. What's the national interest if the government sold Iskraemec to foreigners coming from Egypt? Instead of this Iskraemeco becoming some kind of Slovenian Nokia will obviously become a company with which the owner from Egypt is playing, which apparently, according to the information we have, is already transferring investments or activities to Egypt. He's building a facility. He hires people. And it is obvious that instead of the role and purpose of Iskraemec, which we have also listened to on the Commission for the supervision of public finances, Iskraemec is destined for the fate of failure. That's the way he runs. This is a way of working that creates and raises doubts. We regret that such a development has taken place in the LDS. That's what we've been trying to warn you about. But apparently, it's a failure. Another example that we find or try to determine is whether there are doubts and doubts about what is called clientelism and corruption in these sales. IBI Kranj, the Slovenian Compensation Company sold it to a cheap company. For EUR 3 million sold 85%. Only the shares of the Triglav Insurance Company owned by the IBI were worth €1.5 million. Let's not talk about the takeover. And according to our opinion, here too, the interests of the state and small shareholders of IBI Kranj have been damaged. With regard to the SOD strategy on early purchases of bonds, I should like to point out that the previous governments did not allow this to happen. The current Ministry of Finance gave its consent to the Slovenian Compensation Society in March 2006 in order to purchase its own bonds. Indeed, the proposed solution allowed the SOD to reduce or reduce the deficit. However, there is doubt as to whether the solution proposed was most appropriate, since the Court therefore gave up. Time has shown. Also large returns achieved by August 2007 on the stock exchange. The second question is whether the Slovenian Compensation Society has an investment placement policy, and these are mostly in Slovenia, an appropriate policy. Because of the large fluctuations in one capital market, these investments are either subject to doubts or to excessive fluctuations in earnings or earnings from these investments. The consequences of this are particularly evident in the second half of 2007 and this year, when the Slovenian Compensation Company, at least in our opinion, has already lost its market investment. All of this leads us in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to support the amendments proposed by the Zares Group for today's material in the conclusions adopted by the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. We believe that they also reflect the part that is not seen in the report of the Supervisory Board. Therefore, support for these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye to the representatives of the Soda! Messengers and Members! In order to facilitate the understanding of the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society for 2005, 2006 and 2007, the situation and business of the Slovenian Indemnity Company should be slightly lighted up by 2005. Between 2000 and 2004, the Slovenian Compensation Society had a permanent loss of between 6 billion and 33 billion tolars. What the Company Act should mean is bankruptcy, which was not the result of public pressure and the decision of the Constitutional Court because the bond guarantee was taken over by the State. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the loss was shown mainly due to poor asset management and unfair display. Otherwise, we cannot explain the leap from a large loss of 33 billion tolars in 2004 to a positive business of 4 billion tolars in 2005. It may also be interesting that by the end of 2001, eight years together, the President of the Management Board, Mr Rob and Mr Swickl. By the way, let us say that the board of directors has a crucial role to play in the management and sale of significant shares of companies owned by the Slovenian Compensation Society and also a great responsibility. In mid-2004, the Court of Auditors found that the assets of the Slovenian Compensation Company to cover denationalisation claims and other legal obligations would be too small in the course of its review of the sale of shares of the Slovenian Compensation Society in Hotel Morje and Hotel Palace. It was estimated that 1.9 billion to 2.75 billion German brand assets would be missing. Which, after the course at the time, amounted to 228 to 330 billion tolars. In the New Slovenia Group, despite opposition to the opposition in 2005, we trusted the new management of the Slovenian Compensation Society, headed by Mr Pogačnik and Podpečan, as Chairman of the Management Board. Soon it turned out we were right. The results improved from period to period. In our Group's view, in order to achieve a better business, it is largely due to the changed investment strategy. Free funds were invested primarily in shares of better Slovenian companies. In March 2006 they were also given an agreement by the Ministry of Finance to buy their own bonds that were highly profitable. Despite the sale of a number of capital shares and despite the large commitments made by the Court, the balance sheet sum from year to year is already higher at the end of June 2007 at EUR 2 billion and EUR 18 million. Which is record-breaking, which means it's already €320 million of the balance sheet plus. This also means that the large denationalisation hole, which was already in the middle of 2004, is no longer available and that it will also be possible to use surplus funds for other purposes. At this point, I would mention that the final results for 2007 are still significantly better. In the New Slovenia Group, we estimate that the Supervisory Committee worked well from 2005 to 2007, including 2007 and that it has consistently carried out all the tasks for which it is responsible. The Supervisory Board was currently informed of the estimates of the financial statements and of the company's business information. He was also regularly informed of the decisions of the Management Board. In the light of the Court of Auditors’ findings, the Supervisory Committee also adopted amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Supervisory Committee, by which it defined its powers more clearly. The Supervisory Board also found that the company’s operating costs were planned. There are also procedures for returning investments to the telecommunications network without difficulty. In accordance with the relevant acts, the Supervisory Board has also reviewed randomly selected matters relating to the sale of the company’s assets, as well as certain denationalisation cases which it has collected under the same procedure. No irregularities were identified by the Supervisory Board. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the findings of the Supervisory Committee that the Slovenian Compensation Society acted legally, professionally, rationally and economically between 2005 and 2007. On the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, the discussion focused on individual sales of ownership shares on a regular basis. That is why we have also decided in the New Slovenia Group to present in the following two cases, which, in our view, are good and bad practice. We claim in the New Slovenia Group that Mercator's sale in 2005 was correct and that Mercator's shares were sold at a fair price. The person responsible for the sale was the Chairman of the Management Board, Mr Podpečan. All supervisory institutions, supervisory committees, the European Commission, the Securities Market Agency and also the Court of Auditors find, in large part, that the sale was legal. That the price was correct also shows the prices of Pivovarna Laško and Istrabenza shares after the purchase of Mercator shares. Stocks were rising slower than the stock exchange index. The prices of Marcotor’s shares also rose slower. In this case, the Court of Auditors delivered an opinion with reservation. Another example, which in our view is a case of bad practice, is the sale of shares of Hotels Morje and Hotels Palace. According to the Court of Auditors' record, Mr Cwickl, the then President of the Management Board, is responsible for the sale. At the same time, Mr Swickl was also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Hotels Palace. Despite the Governing Board’s decision that the shares must be sold by public tender, the sale was made directly. The board of directors is only 3. 6. 2004 gave written consent to sell. He also gave written consent to the content of this board of directors to the President of the Management Board only 3. 6. 2004 during the audit of the Court of Auditors. It is clear that the board of directors did not agree to the sale, and it was only on the basis of political pressure that it gave its consent after two and a half years. Agreements between the sale of Hotels More and the exchange of shares of Hoteli Palace were held orally and there is no record of this. The exchange value of the hotels Palace was below the stock exchange price. As a result of all of this, it was 11. Ten. 2004 Mr. Squeakl replaced. All those who remember that Mr Squeakl also ran for President of the Court of Auditors in 2004 can find that, even as a result of this, he was not appointed, despite the fact that the coalition had a large majority. In the case of Hotel Morje. Finally, I would like to say that the Court of Auditors gave a positive opinion on this case and assessed the conduct as an economic conduct. In the case of Hotels Morje and Hotels Palace, according to our parliamentary group, the Court of Auditors has always ruled as expert. Although there were many irregularities, in this case the media did not respond. Which suggests a situation that is not entirely normal in our environment. In many other cases, for much smaller things, the media reacted very badly. Once again, we fully support the work of the Supervisory Committee in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u14	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the SOD, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall address the report at the meeting of the National Assembly. The report shall be considered at a meeting of the National Assembly only if the parent working body so decides. As a rule, reports are dealt with only at the meetings of the parent working body and, since the time of the elections is approaching, it is expected that there will be more to report on such or other treatments. If, in their deliberations, it is possible to discuss the question of Mercator, damage to state property and the like. This, of course, is true today. We've heard something. And we'll definitely do more. As we have heard, the business of the Slovenian Compensation Society during the period under consideration has been far more successful in the history of society. This is certainly not to be attributed only to the situation in the financial market or securities market and to the changed accounting standards, as some try to relativise this success. External objective factors have certainly contributed to this result, which we must also recognise. We are also pleased about the surplus in the balance sheet, which is slightly over €300 million at the time of the loss. Few of us worry about some emerging ideas about how to use this surplus as quickly as possible. The report of the Slovenian Compensation Supervisory Committee is short, concise and clear. Its content in this presentation would not even be released on behalf of the SLS Group. The contents of the report are also appropriate proposals for conclusions proposed by the parties we are forming a government coalition. I would stress that we will also support these conclusions by the Members of the SLS Group. However, I would like to identify some of the issues and concerns that have arisen in the current examination of the reports. Let me first touch the country's withdrawal from the economy. In the Slovenian People's Party we have always advocated a gradual and transparent withdrawal of the country from the Slovenian economy. Except, of course, from companies of strategic importance to the Republic of Slovenia. This means banks, insurance companies, telecommunications companies, the best Slovenian companies, companies that own infrastructure such as electricity, Luka Koper, Adria Airways, Slovenian Railways and others. A few percentages and shares that do not affect management or do not yield adequate returns should be sold as transparently as possible in accordance with government guidelines. How relative a laziness assessment can be to the right and best price or assessment of the best time, we can best see the last time we witness a stock collapse on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange at the time of fighting, how much we could stand for Mercator's shares if we sold them six months later. However, no one can say how much they would have lost if many of the investments sold were not sold at the time they were actually sold. We think it is important that the government should be guided in a consistent manner. Except in cases I've already mentioned. So when it comes to shares in the best Slovenian and strategically important companies. Here we will do everything in the Slovenian People's Party not to make these sales. We have successfully contributed to the fact that the insurance company Triglav did not own it in the expected way. Apparently, we were able to convince our coalition partners to stop the sale of Telekom. In this context, we do not see the need, as proposed by the opposition Members at the meeting of the Commission, to re-examine the reasons for and timing of the withdrawal of the country from the economy, despite the sufficient payment capacity of the SOD. Of course, with the Slovenian People's Party already mentioned assumptions. Let me briefly touch on other highly polarized issues. In fact, it is a problem which interferes directly with the very purpose and purpose of the operation and establishment of the Slovenian Compensation Society. The Slovenian compensation company was primarily set up as a financial organisation for the settlement of the obligations of beneficiaries under the Denationalisation Act. We find it unacceptable that by the beginning of this term of office, the Slovenian Compensation Society was an instrument for delaying denationalisation. As we have many experience here, the Court on the one hand almost never participated in discussions on denationalisation requests at the first stage. On the other hand, without any explanation, the Priori made a series of complaints about any first-degree decision taken in favour of the denationalising beneficiaries. A Slovenian compensation company was set up for the opposite purpose. Therefore, it seems to us that it is the right decision of the Court, whether on the basis of a recommendation or a recommendation from the Government or not, that complaints be lodged only in justified cases. This is when the Court finds that the rules have been broken or do not agree with the amount of compensation. It is appropriate that denationalisation procedures be completed as soon as possible. It is also right that any body that is a member of this chain shall act lawfully and properly and in spirit and in harmony with the purpose of its establishment. Well, with his essence. Let me conclude by saying once again that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the proposed amendments of the coalition parties and, of course, the report as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Matej Lahovnik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. In the Parliamentary Group, we have read with interest the report on the operation of the Slovenian Compensation Society. First of all, it is important to note the whole range of deceptions and nonsense that we often witness. This report is very much praised for how excellent it would be for the Slovenian Compensation Society to operate, since the assets are expected to increase so much. In doing so, they are completely forgetting to say that this increase is due to the favourable movement of stock prices in the Stock Exchange, with which the management of the Slovenian Compensation Society is nothing. Because if we could give them a medal because the stock prices in 2007 soared and the assets soared, then we should just fire them now because in the first quarter of this year the stock value fell by a quarter. But, as I said, the management of the Slovenian Compensation Society cannot take credit for it, nor can we afford it. Because they're movements that they can't influence. But it is really funny here to hear how one of the ruling parties boasts about how good the business of the Slovenian Compensation Society is, because the value of the property has increased. Some hygiene is right to be present. It is sad that this is also stated in the report as a great credit and thanks. However, trends in capital markets are not mentioned by word of mouth. And I would point out once again that if that is the case, then I expect that for the first quarter in view of such a negative trend, the leadership should step down. As I said, however, it is necessary to be realistic and see what the real reason is for the assets to increase or decrease. Let me just give you an example, the value of the Krka stock has dropped by a quarter since the beginning of this year. Calculate the shares of the Slovenian Compensation Society in the largest Slovenian companies. Calculate how much they've lost in the first quarter of this year and you'll get a fascinating number. So be careful when you brag about how great it was in 2007. Since we can then base the same on how bad it was in the first quarter of this year, both are methodologically incorrect. The next thing we are really reminding the Group is that in this report, the findings that speak of the correctness or irregularity of the sale are about the prudence or recklessness of the random choice of certain sales cases. We'd call it "rehearsals." Well, the Supervisory Board has chosen certain cases and reviewed them. He hasn't reviewed all the cases, which we find questionable. Especially because the sample is relatively small. It is also unclear whether it is a simple random sample or whether the sampling was carried out otherwise. In this respect, the report is even less credible than it could have been. Above all, if we look at the specific cases that this report deals with, we can be concerned. We can be concerned about the fact that the Slovenian Compensation Society Assembly is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should instruct the Supervisory Committee to review several sales cases. Especially since there has been considerable talk in the public about the suspicion of corruption and clienteleism in individual sales. And especially because sales did not always involve open, public auctions, where everything would be transparent. But in most cases for some closed opening within a narrow circle of people who are just named according to some client criterion and then supervise each other. If we look at these specific cases. When we talk about the sale of Iskraemec, unfortunately, this sale turns into one of the biggest farces in the sale of state property. This report tells us they're looking for strategic buyers. About trying to get the maximum purchase. But when we look at this case, first we see that the purchase was by no means maximum. Because selling such a company for a good EUR 37 million sounds like a lot at first sight. But when you see that only a third of this money is worth the portfolio that this same company has in the shares of Gorenjska banka, you have to think slowly. Even more so, it should be assumed that this sale was justified in order to ensure the company's strategic development in order to ensure additional investment of up to EUR 30 million. Which is ridiculous. It is funny that representatives of the Slovenian Compensation Company fixed the maximum amount of additional investments. They said: Ensure additional investments up to €30 million. What if there were 50 million euros? That would be good. It would be logical to set a lower investment threshold. What's that amount that some strategic partner has to invest in the company? At least that much, if that's all right. But no. But the ceiling is not clear to anyone why the threshold is above. The other thing that is already tragic, however, is that when we talk about these thirty million euros and it turns out that the production of Iskraemec is moving to a large extent abroad, now the representatives of these companies who bought Iskraemeca are making an easy statement because we have not told where these jobs will be kept. And they make it clear that if 1,000 people are fired in Kranj and 1,000 jobs open up in India, it is still within the Iskraemec Group that all jobs are maintained. That's, uh, sorry, I'm already a cynic. If the Slovenian Compensation Society is concerned that jobs are moving to India or Egypt and if they do not care about such statements, I do not think anyone cares. At least 1,000, over 1,000 employees in Iskraemec who really care about their fate. And there was no response from the Slovenian Compensation Society. There is no critical note of this sale in this report either. These are public statements that are verifiable. This is how we find it unacceptable to sell good Slovenian companies. As mentioned above, in the case of IBI Kranj, where the company was sold for EUR 3 million. The value of porfel in the shares of the Triglav Insurance Company is at least half of that even more. In short, we ask ourselves: Who is selling here, and what is the transparency of these sales? A particularly interesting case is the sale of Istrabenz. Istrabenz shares were sold to Petrol at a price of EUR 110. The price on the stock exchange was 114 euros at that time. If Mercator was still in battle with his head, how could the Slovenian Compensation Society not be able to collect the premium and sell at the market price, but if Istrabenz was sold, we could only wrap our eyes and see that the company could also be sold below the market price. And even if you have a control package, you can do it. Let us leave now that the price of the Istrabenz stock was much higher at the 140 euro stock market just a few weeks earlier. But they were able to sell 110 euros at the time of sale, although they could sell 114 euros at the stock exchange. That's a real achievement. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is the Assembly of the Slovenian Compensation Society. I would expect them to order the supervisory authorities to see what's going on with this sale. But pay attention, the Secretary-General of the Government is sitting in the Istrabenz Supervisory Council. Perhaps the President of the Government is very well aware of everything and perhaps we do not need supervision in such cases, because the Secretary-General of the Government in the supervisory council is such a large economic society. And we're worried about these things. Especially in the case of the sale of shares of that company there is such obvious irregularities and illogicality. And if this sale were made in a transparent manner, according to what the report says, then we could only commend it and have no comments. That's how far it's been. There is, of course, much to be said about how Mercury shares and comas were sold. But we didn't have any comments there because it was a public auction. He bought whoever bought it. The price was well above the market price. In those cases, it would be difficult and unfair to report anything to the Slovenian Compensation Society. In these other cases, when sold even at a market price, well, excuse me, it would be impeccable if we kept our mouths shut. If we return to another example that is somehow mentioned directly in this report, indirectly. When we talk about the Mercator case, it is very interesting that representatives of New Slovenia today talk about how this sale was good and correct. The Prime Minister is talking about the fact that it was a mistake and it would be nice if you could at least coordinate with each other, whether it was good now, or whether it was a mistake now. Because otherwise it turns out to be quite impeccable if even within the government you can't reconcile yourself in this regard. Above all, it is interesting that, for example, the President of the Commission who examined the sale of Mercator shares, I am talking about that notable investigative commission that dealt with the sale of Kad and Sod shares - he was not at all hoping to invite as a witness to that commission of Boško Šrota, the chairman of the Pivovarna Laško administration, who said that he could say much about the sale and that he was willing to do so. And I'm sure this report would be much more interesting about how shares were sold. And you weren't hoping to invite him, and that's why the report can't be perfect. Someone says he's willing to say it publicly, part of which says in interviews that he's ready to come, and no one invites him like it's not in the public interest. Why are some so afraid, what can I say? And speaking of this Mercator purchase, it has been repeatedly mentioned today that the stock went up and down, in any case today the price of the stock is much higher, but actually this would not be wrong if the purchase were to be made economically. But to date, I have not been able to figure out which investments Mercator was charging and how the value of these investments was moving compared to Mercator's share price. It's very easy to figure that out. And I really wouldn't open it again, because it's been said so much, if not for all my predecessors to do so as a reference to this report. In the Group of Members, we are in some way concerned, and in some ways we are saddened that this report is not more credible, it is not more correct, it is not more comprehensive. It could have been, and therefore we have proposed amendments to this report. And in the Group of Members, we really expect the National Assembly to support this amendment. In fact, the substance of this amendment content, which we want to add to the conclusions, in particular to the first decision, is that the Slovenian compensation company has repeatedly failed to take into account the way in which the State's capital investment was sold, which is prescribed by the Public Finance Act for sale, so that it did not take into account good practice or its own operating acts. Therefore, we believe that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to initiate appropriate procedures against the supervisory authorities and the authorities of the Slovenian Compensation Society, due to non-transparent and opaque sales which raise suspicion of corruption and clientism. The government is the assembly of the Slovenian Compensation Society, has scissors and canvas and can initiate appropriate procedures. Especially because the distinguished President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, said that Mercator's sale was a mistake. And given that he himself has found out and that the Government is forming the Assembly of the Slovenian Compensation Society, we can expect him to act with certainty. We would also like to draw a further conclusion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a meeting of the Slovenian Compensation Society that the Slovenian Indemnity Company has repeatedly failed to lead the sales of capital investments by the State of the sale process effectively. Therefore, there is a risk that it did not recover the highest price. Finally, the Court of Auditors has found this in the case of Mercator’s sale, says the Court of Auditors, that the sale was not transparent and transparent and in accordance with the rules of operation and that there is a risk that the highest purchases for Mercator’s shares have not been withdrawn, even the Court of Auditors has found irregularities, non-compliance with the rules of operation, and the coalition is offering us a decision to find that everything is in line with the act of operation. That's not going to work, and these things need to be warned. We therefore expect you to support the amendments tabled in the Zares Group and to call on the Government, as the Slovenian Compensation Society Assembly, against the supervisory and management bodies of the Slovenian Compensation Society, to initiate appropriate procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is likely that there will be another debate circle today, and nothing will likely happen, even though serious warnings have been given so far. And the conclusions to be adopted will be such as, in general, nothing binding, despite the Court of Auditors finding out the real criminal acts, the public prosecution authorities slowly awakening and identifying the facts arising from the untransparent and illegal operation of the Court and Kad. In doing so, the question of what these organisations should do, and I am thinking mainly of the law enforcement authorities, is also an open question. This is the fact that irregularities have been identified, I can also say criminal acts, and I believe that in the end no one will lose his job, and even less, no one will be closed. Which is sad, kind of sad. The sale of the property of the Court does not take place legally, it does not take place transparently. And if we adopt this report today without any critical and binding conclusions, we too will help to make Slovenia's shame even more international tomorrow. That's what I've been alerting myself to. I have warned such criminals, the Court of Auditors, the Kosovo Commission or the Anti-Corruption Commission not to say that we have called on the Court to proceed with the sale of at least one of the companies that we say was a parade horse of Slovenia, this is the General Sailing to make a transparent sale and it has not been able to do so. The treaty was signed right in Minister Bajuk's office and I believe that Mr Testen will find a lot of praiseworthy words, how everything is good and how everything is fine, while we know that Mercator's sale was led by someone who is possibly even higher in rank than Minister Bajuk. Therefore, criminal acts are evident. Intransparency and illegal business have also been identified by the Anti-Corruption Commission. Also in the Court of Auditors, Mr Auditor-General notes that the actual situation is worrying. However, I, as a member of the National Assembly, have to file a criminal complaint against the President of the Court on behalf of the Group of Members. Isn't that a kind of shame? After all the warnings that could lead to reasonable action and timely action, neither was what we expected. Open and transparent management of the sales process of the largest company, which is the parade horse of Slovenia in terms of maritime affairs. And we lost her. It's a general voyage. And this company was our special law country in 1994, saving up with $550 million because it had such a loss. At that time, the State also took reasonable action and set up the company of the authorising officer, the maritime company which paid the workers, to the sailors of unpaid wages in the form of an equity share. This society, of course, takes over with the hope that it will be led by a fair, current unionist, Mr Zevnik, who will then sell this society under the counter, as the Court does, to Mr Doehle. And this Mr Doyle, a German, buys this company for 50 million again under the counter, because others who wanted to be auctioneers were not even allowed to see the business situation. We have warned the Court three times, however, to make this possible, because it is a normal and transparent procedure to allow auctioneers to see into the business before the auction. That wasn't done. Of course, they wrote that those who applied for the auction had to make a statement that they were familiar with the business situation in the company. Three months later, when Mr Doyle bought this company and became the majority owner, the business curve went up interestingly to this company and Mr Doyle was already able to pay his fifty million. He sold two more old ships, the general voyages, his more expensive than two new ones. By chance, general shipping buys two new and two old ships today. Old ships, 15 years old and over, are substantially more expensive than two new ships. Interesting. The situation, which is in fact somehow incomprehensible after all, is still happening in Slovenia, as if they were in some Banana Republic. I'll wait for the verdict of our court. And this verdict, I believe, will not satisfy all expectations, because the judiciary is as it is today. We will seek justice in the international legal field and bring an action against the competent courts abroad, and we will wash the dirty laundry there. Injury of the largest social property in Primorska in such a pig's, low-level manner as the Court of First Instance had pointed out, since the Court sold the majority share, cannot be forgotten. We sold the only Slovenian shipowner to a foreigner, and because of the personal interests of individuals, contracts were concluded in the offices of the Ministry. Although Slovenian companies were prepared, including Luka Koper and other companies, it was not possible for them to buy this company, i.e. the Slovenian shipowner. Minister Bajuk told me in this Chamber that whoever will be the best bidder on the first call will be able to buy this company. This invitation to tender was supplemented by an additional call for an even better offer. Also on this supplementary offer, the Slovenian company was the best. But no. The invitation was cancelled and auctioned. The invitation to tender was chaired by the Court, and the company had one clause: that the person who signs it joins the right to cancel the auction at any time. And of course, the auctioneers also had to report the upper limit to which they would auction or raise the price. Next given essentially the most secure data area to the one who wanted to "battle" it in his pocket. The Commissioner for Access to Public Information made it clear that, in essence, the contracts must be visible. Interestingly, until today we have not seen a contract under which conditions the General Navigation has been sold. We have already called on five times, even though it is a state-owned enterprise or a share of the State property sold by the Court, we do not have a contract today. Why are you hiding the contract? Can you tell me? Put this contract in the light so we can see it. If this were to be a democratic country, today we should come to the Court of Justice with a criminalist, first of all, to close this deep, fifth floor under prisons, the President or the Director, so that they do not come in contact with others, and to collect all the documentation, as of course they have done with a clean shovel, which has other purposes. Here, I would like to invite Mr Pogačnik publicly to say why he has allowed such filth, the sale of General Navigation, in such an untransparent and so illegal way. It is also a kind of paradox that there is no government representative here today. I already wanted to make a procedural proposal to suspend this meeting and call on government representatives to come and answer, because this property is a matter of state property, and I believe we would not have this opportunity to say what we have said today. In particular, the opposition was very critical. That's why I'm taking this opportunity to invite at least those who know why they did it to say publicly why they did it. I hope that I will also get an answer to this question, so I am selling the General Sailing in a non-transparent way. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Excuse me? Please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. The speaker here made a whole series of accusations, talked about crimes and so on. I would ask you, however, as chairman of such speeches, to draw attention to Article 27 of the Constitution, which refers to the presumption of innocence, which is accused of criminal conduct, to the innocent, until his guilt has been established by a judicial judgment. So, Mr Friend has said a lot of things here, a lot of accusations without any argument, and of course I would ask you to point out this as the chairman of the panel. However, I think that the people he accused here will take appropriate action, so that we do not listen to such accusations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u21	Thank you very much. What do you want, please? The replica isn't on it. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor, on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u22	Your Honors are here! There is no single company known as the Court of Justice, according to the opinion of the Group of Members. He is only a government service provider or, rather, a policy contractor of some government advisors. One of the legal provisions states: "The company is organised as a share company, the only founder and shareholder is the Republic of Slovenia." This sentence shows who also bears the full responsibility. However, if we look a little deeper into the content of this sentence, we know who controls the property of citizens and citizens, this is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that there is only one actor over Sodom and Kad, that is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, criticising the Court or criticising Kad means at the same time criticising the business policy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this case. All today's criticisms were justified. The continuation provides that the shares are ordinary and are recorded on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia and give the holder the right to manage the company, secondly, the right to a dividend and, thirdly, the right to pay the residual value of the company’s assets at the time of its liquidation. From this point of view, allow me to place each of these three foundations in particular within the framework of the position of the Group of Members, namely the management of the company. Ladies and gentlemen, when did the Court manage any of its own companies? From here it comes according to our assessment, the basic and primary source of sin and the inflatable government and the Soda. In the context of its investments, the Court did not exercise any company, but, as the holder of the right of ownership, took advantage of the exclusive possibility of recruitment in the bodies of that company. You don't want to. We're dealing with Paloma right now. In itself, we are told how successful this recruitment is in the bodies of companies with individual shares. And a hand on the heart, as much of a failed recruitment as the Court affords it, and thus the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it is not easy or comprehensible. I'd be a good example of some low-budget film that would indicate how it shouldn't behave. Staffing takes place exclusively on the political line. Where the political deployment of the Sod and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia leads, we have the best example of the recruitment of Mr Bayuk or New Slovenia in the framework of Paloma. The effectiveness of such recruitment and thus the worst of all, the future of such companies, which are simply due to the impact of policy due to the lacunacy of people within the Court, has lost their future within a once successful Styrian company. I don't think it was long ago that I sat down with a consultant helping the Lip Group of Members and asked him about this report, asked him about the functioning of the Court. His answer was so interesting that I'm going to try to get him next minute, two, to bring him closer to you. But he wasn't just interesting, he was mostly real. He said that the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, the Law on Economic Companies and other sectoral legislation did not know a word term that could indicate quality, better said inequity, inequity and politics, as was the case in the Court. When, in other words, I asked him later if he could extend it to me. He said, "I just can't extend it to you, because whoever's doing this, let it be with financial transactions, acquisitions, securities, just laughing at the way the Soda works." But this smile is bitter, because the way of the work of the Court is exclusively delegated through let yesterday and today and no mention of Mrs Adriana Starina Kosem's story, which told the background, or through the stories that we all know in connection with "Fridays, not Fridays, Fridays" within those people who can fill their own pockets on behalf of the country, and the Court is always following them again without having to hesitate to do anything. More than once, events in connection with Iskraemec have been exposed. In the Lipa Group, we can only say pure disaster. It's a school case that can't be done. The school example of how to play citizens and citizens and the school case today is the transfer of those Members who have shown this to be a success. Please! I'm stressing again. On behalf of the Lipa Group, the word economic disaster, clientism or corruption may be equivalent to Iskraemeca. At the outset, I stressed that it was either meant or that in school textbooks or in normal countries where clientism and corruption are not so closely connected with the Government, the principle of active management through ownership or co-ownership applies. Active management is, of course, unknown to the work of the Court or is a prohibited area. For all we have are citizens or citizens of the Court, as owners or co-owners, political recruitment. We want to, we don't want to, we meet again with events in connection with Paloma. In front of Paloma, these companies just lined up. But this is an example of work and the exploitation or active management of the soda. Or, as I said at the outset, the active management of some government individuals who have been named many times in the past days, and everyone today seals their eyes, mouths, or ears. In short, we know nothing, we are untouchable, the Court is the one who does it, although on the other hand we all know who is the only and exclusive owner of the Soda. Transparency has been highlighted, the public works so that we can see what is happening or what is happening to our property. At the same time, nowhere in the material, no debater mentioned in a word, I do not think that the Court is the only shareholder book, or rather that the Court's bonds are bearer bonds. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? What does it mean that their bonds are profitable? Ladies and gentlemen, this only means that the rights and obligations of the bond cannot be identified by ownership at this time. As long as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not approach this, however, I will naively say, shortcomings, we cannot talk so long about any transparency in the field of state or property yet all of us, or those companies or equity shares that the Court has in the management or potential sale process. No one looks into the stock book in the Court. They can't see, not who's in debt, simply because the bond status is profitable. The one he's got in his hand right now, he's the owner. There's nowhere else to be found. All other companies, equity companies, have something or find a stock book from which it can be understood for someone who is potentially serious, to be a serious partner, to accompany events, to be a journalist, to be just a citizen who may be interested in these things, to see the structure. In the case of the Court of Justice, of course, that is not the case. In the second half of 2006, we referred the question to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the context of the Lipa Group, finally to the National Assembly and to what strategy is the withdrawal of the State from the ownership shares they have in the administration of the Court of Justice and Kad. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has answered our question on nine lists. The nine lists tell us that they have prepared a strategy for the withdrawal of state shares within a special section, which, of course, does not say by name, although we all know who were inside, which gentlemen, because they have recently written it also in various Saturday annexes and that the Government has proposed to order, this order has not even been needed, since the Court does not need to be ordered by the Government, but only hints at them and do this in their regular work, and I will even quote you that you will not misunderstand: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is in charge of drawing up plans for the withdrawal of the country from the economic societies in which the Republic of Slovenia shares, in which the Republic of Slovenia has committed a special advisory group of experts whose area it addressed in its 84th regular session, 27th. Seven. 2006." In this regard, it has adopted conclusions to sell investments, and I can tell you that these investments are 231, in other words, 231 companies that have passed any knowledge of this matter by the National Assembly, and we will divide them into three groups. The first group consists of investments of Kad and Soda in companies not listed on the stock exchange, two of which include market investments and a group of three companies where the country has the largest share. Later, the strategy of the Republic of Slovenia is defined on about half of the list or otherwise by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for each of these three groups. In the Court of Justice, this would not have been catastrophic if the 231 investments sold by the Court and Kad were not written in an extremely fine print. But it only mentions the name of the company that the state will sell through Kato and the Soda. Among them, you don't want to, I'm gonna have to touch myself again, and I don't think I'm gonna be looking for Paloma now, somewhere around 200th. All the other companies that the government has put forward in a way, i.e. a friend of a friend of a friend, through a friendly court, to expose to the public the sale, should be in the form that some opposition Members have spoken of, that is to say, negotiating exclusively under the table or even outside the premises that are intended for that purpose. That is why whoever speaks today, ladies and gentlemen, about the success of the Court, their operation, the transparency of the Court, their operation, or even the independence and expertise of the Court, gentlemen and ladies, is, of course, in the bloody wrong. I would like to point out, within the time available, that fundamental dilemma on behalf of the Group of Members. The basic dilemma, which clearly sets us so apart in the framework of the National Assembly and not least in the Slovenian public, and this separation is indicated through the speeches of some that we can be proud of the Court, and the part that claims that the Court should be more responsible, more serious, especially more independent. It is, of course, the objective that is being followed or pursued in the speech of all Members, which, by the heart, we have not had a clear, absolutely no chance of having an impact on the Court. The hand on the heart, Members, because we have renounced this right on the basis of the Government's wishes, we can't have any effect on any sale within or within the framework of state property. But the difference that we're following and it's very sung on the one hand is the profit of soda or good business. I said before, like in a bad movie, some hang themselves exclusively in that positive category, and the Court, unlike the previous years, started making profits. But is profit the key objective of the Court's operation? Is the Court a market-oriented company that is on the market or in the Slovenian space in order to generate profits or is the task of the Court completely different? In my opinion, according to the law, all experts consider the Court's role in the active management and transfer of investment assets. We all know that the easiest, most irresponsiblely simple thing to do is nothing to me, nothing to you, considering that the price category is not important at all, to sell and to lose it forever. It is wrong to show good income, or otherwise say good results, within the framework of the Court and Kad, which are not sent to the market in order to be market-oriented in form, or excuse me, not to act politically in order to barter with their investments. The Court and Kad, their mission, their vision is elsewhere. And as long as we don't make this clear to ourselves in the National Assembly, gentlemen and gentlemen, so long is the meaningless debate we have at all. Active management is not just the appointment of staff to supervisory committees, in the administrations of different companies. And for the fourth time, I will mention Paloma, which is an example that I sincerely hope that all Members and Members of the National Assembly have already heard. And what can political recruitment, in our case of New Slovenia, achieve on the market? What can he accomplish? It can achieve that, at this point, they cannot even supply, i.e. within this company, or purchase, so-called basic funds for their production. They just can't. And what does the board do? There is an argument between each other, something else, correspondence between the Court, Kad, the Council of Workers and the Government, and thank God also among colleagues of Boštjan Zagorec, that at least a few things the Slovenian public will learn in this area. Is there anything else? No, no, no. Active management is a complete stranger to the representatives of the Court, to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and not least to all those who make profits out of this state property exclusively on their own account. This, of course, gives rise to that never-ending story, which has received successful foundations and even better realisation since 2004. This is the so-called story of political and capital friendship. So you can be justified from this place, or with the answer in advance: Are the people, the administration of the Court, so incompetent to allow all of this? I don't think so. In my firm belief, the administration is far from incompetent, both in the Court and in Kad. I say that they are extremely capable, but only the objective they pursue is beyond being able to define it as a value, morale, principle, but they are pursuing individual goals or creators of these goals, and individuals are very close to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I know you all know them. But what is most sad about this is that I believe that during today's debate, which is scheduled for 3 hours and 27 minutes, all of you will jump into their defenses. So to those people who are hurting, and I'm not just going to tell the state, I'm not just going to tell economic investment, I'm going to tell those people who are hurting you. You will be magnifying them again during today's debate, no, because they have nothing, government advisors or formerly employed within the government cabinet, even though in the position of secretary, although I just don't know, a few more than 20 years old - but you will excuse them. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way. The Republic of Slovenia has actively managed the pursuit of various objectives, including the completion of denationalisation, assets in the administration of the Court. What does the Court do? Or, rather, what does the government or individuals in the government do? You can find the answer every day in the newspaper also in the context or, above all, in the context of the criticism and disaster of this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Rudi Veršnik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Welcome to Mr. Pogačnik and the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Nice greetings to your well-respected colleagues and colleagues. The Slovenian Indemnity Company was established by the Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act, which was adopted on 19.2.1993. The Public Funds Act changed the name of the Slovenian Compensation Fund to the Slovenian Compensation Society, as we know it today. In accordance with the law on the Slovenian Compensation Fund, Sod d.d. defined as a financial organisation for the settlement of obligations to beneficiaries under the Denationalisation Act, the Cooperatives Act and the Law on the Return of Investments to the Public Telecommunications Network and other rules governing the return of held assets. The company issues bonds and other securities for the performance of its tasks, disposes of and manages securities and other funds acquired by the company under the Slovenian Indemnity Fund Act. The company is organised as a shareholder company whose sole founder and shareholder is the Republic of Slovenia, which is entitled to a dividend and the rest of the assets at the time of its liquidation. The Court shall be supervised by a five-member Supervisory Committee appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The current term of office of the Supervisory Board began on 18 May 2005 for a period of four years. The Supervisory Board shall supervise the work of the company, which shall draw up a report, once a year, which shall be considered by the Committee for Budgetary Control in the National Assembly. Today we are looking at two reports, the first for May 2005 - December 2006 and the second for 2007. The most questions and the greatest concern since the establishment is whether the Court d.d. by the end of his life, that is, by 2016, he could have settled normally. The new Management Board, the new management and the new Supervisory Board were, at the time of taking charge of their duties, the main objective of trying, for the first time, to establish the actual situation and for the second time to make an assessment or otherwise stated simulation of all legal obligations by 2016. The biggest problem with the objectives set was the fact that denationalisation has not yet been completed after 15 years and it is not yet known what the final obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society are. According to the quality estimates made, these commitments were estimated to amount to EUR 1.75 billion by 2016. At the end of 2005, the deficit for settlement of these liabilities was estimated at EUR 480 million by 2016, at the end of 2006, after an additional year of good management of the Court’s assets, the deficit was estimated at EUR 183 million. However, it should be noted that this amount also covers a provision for potential profit tax liabilities of EUR 81 million. The Slovenian compensation company managed to reduce the deficit between the planned commitments and the available resources in one year by approximately €388 million. Of course, we certainly have a question about how the Slovenian Compensation Society managed to achieve such a conversion. The secrecy of the underlying change is a modified investment strategy, which has proved to be very successful. Free liquid assets have begun to be invested in shares of well-standing companies, Krka, Petrola, Luke Koper, where they can count on their long-term preservation, and they have obtained the consent of the Ministry of Finance to be able to purchase their own bonds. This enabled the Court of Justice to manage the assets in order to achieve the objective of correcting all obligations by 2016 with the present assets. The balance sheet sum of the Slovenian Compensation Company was €1.59 billion at the end of 2006, which has never been so high in the history of the Slovenian Compensation Society. At the end of the year, the Court, after a balance sheet sum, aligned itself with Kad, who in the past had an ever-increasing balance sheet amount, although at the time of their establishment the Kad and the Court received the same value in the management of the assets. This success is the result of a proper strategy for the management of the assets of the Court in recent years and the successful implementation of the divestment of investments or, in other words, withdrawals from the economy. The value of the legal obligations paid in 2006 was $33.4 billion, the number of active capital investments by the end of 2006 was 96, of which 57 capital investments were resold. The net profit at the end of 2006 is EUR 6 million. The success of the Court continued in 2007 and there is no surprise that 2007 was the most successful in the history of the Slovenian Compensation Society. In 2007, a Slovenian compensation company pays around €176 million in legal obligations and sells 41 capital investments. Inflows from capital investments amounted to EUR 255 million and inflows of Western deposits and debt securities amounted to some EUR 61.6 million. The net profit for 2007 is around €90 million. The company's assets increased by more than 61% compared to the previous year. However, the key point is that the amount to cover all the legal obligations incurred by the Slovenian Compensation Society after the state of play at the end of 2006 is a positive sign, which is certainly encouraging for taxpayers. This surplus, or otherwise, good coverage, is estimated at more than €635 million. A deficit of EUR 183 million was estimated a year earlier, and for 2007 we can already talk about a surplus of 365 million. A responsible investment policy or a free money management strategy contributed to this result, i.e. investing in more profitable investments and buying out its own SOD-2E bonds, which is one of the most liquid bonds in the Slovenian market. In 2007, the number of active capital investments decreased from 105 to 64. Capital investment sales were mainly made through public tendering, four of which were more extensive. Capital investment sales are carried out in accordance with the Government's exit strategy and guidelines, taking into account the principle of transparency of sales and fair or high sales prices. The Slovenian Indemnity Company uses the acquired purchases to pay legal obligations and the free liquid assets are mostly directed towards instruments that provide adequate security and good return. In 2007, the Slovenian Compensation Company took a step further by selecting three managers of its excess liquid assets on the basis of an international invitation to tender. Three were selected: Alliance Investment, Perspective and Probank. This way of managing the assets will ensure even greater profitability, greater security and greater transparency in the administration of the Court's assets, all with the aim of successful settlement of all legal obligations by 2016. The current value of the assets of the Slovenian Compensation Company, the balance sheet amount is €2.6 million and is far from the highest in the history of the Slovenian Compensation Society. The value of the investment portfolio is more than EUR 300 million. However, it is important to note that the Court of First Instance reached a 16% return in the investment portfolio in 2007. The Slovenian compensation company also successfully met its objective of completing denationalisation as soon as possible in 2007. To this end, it continued its active communication with both denationalisation authorities and asset valuers as well as beneficiaries. By the end of 2007, the Slovenian compensation company cumulatively provided more than 14 million bonds. In 2007 there was also a continuation of activities related to the restructuring of the Triglav insurance company by the beneficiaries of legal persons. The proposed purchase in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia amounts to more than €80 million. At the end of 2008, the Slovenian compensation company is expected to have a poor 28% of the basic capital of this insurance company, of which only 1.5 basic capital will be in custody. The estimates show that at the end of the ownership of the Triglav Court, he will have more than 25% of the shares. In May 2007, the Slovenian Compensation Company, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, started to invest in the public telecommunications network. In order to pay for these investments, the Slovenian compensation company acquired 10% of Telekom’s shares from the Republic. In 2007, approximately EUR 46 million were paid. These settlements are currently paid from the Court's own property, the settlements paid were for more than 11,000 natural persons and 390 local communities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the results reported by the authorities of the Court of Justice are good, the Court is responsible, following the main mission that the Slovenian Compensation Society will be able to pay all its obligations from its own assets and not into the burden and at the expense of taxpayers. From a large hole or from a large deficit in the past, management managed actively at the end of 2007 to achieve a good result. Therefore, we do not support the Commission's conclusions on the supervision of public finances, since in our opinion they do not rely on the objective assessments of the Slovenian Compensation Society's operations. We will support the report and the coalition amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Since there is so much talk about Prime Minister Janez Janša's statement, I think it is right to read exactly what he said in an interview in Magu. For the first time that the public will hear the second time that they will not manipulate his statement. Prime Minister Janez Janša said, "It was a mistake. Although sales were legal, the price was real and the procedure was just as transparent as in previous sales under the same normative acts of all para-national funds, but it would be better not to reach it. It has been shown that the concentration of ownership was not used for what was publicly promised to penetrate markets in the region and beyond, but rather for strengthening domestic monopoly, including media. If this power were to be channelled into new markets abroad, Slovenia would benefit greatly from this. Thus, Mercator shops still have low wages and owners are strengthened in their domestic policies instead of in regional markets." This was the President's statement in the MAG region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I must say that today there have been so many praises to the ability of the management of the Slovenian Compensation Society to keep a person speechless. Interestingly, the events that have taken place over the past three years, three and a half years, in particular in the market market and in the changes to some of the instructions given by the Government, accounting standards, have had no impact on how the management of the Slovenian Compensation Society has been extremely successful due to the brilliant leaderships that this Government has called it. We cannot talk here about the impact of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, because, as Mr Robnik said very correctly and clearly, their task is not to govern the policy of this company, nor to monitor the policy of this company, but only to check back whether the management of the Slovenian Indemnity Society was legal and correct and for the purpose for which the Slovenian Indemnity Society was established in the past as a fund. Thus, we have also heard all these superlatives at both meetings of the Supervisory Board, or we can say at one meeting which continued in the 50th session and then at the 51st meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, that the increase in capital investment is only and only the result of the success of its leadership. However, we need to ask ourselves what was really the reason for such a great success and a positive result in recent years and what we are looking forward to this year or the end of last year and this year. It should be said that, above all, there are two significant reasons that have led to the rise in the value of capital investments by the Slovenian Compensation Company. The first was that it was necessary to start following international accounting standards laid down by the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and that these standards also applied to the Slovenian Compensation Society. Which means that, as an example, the stock, which was worth 30 000 tolars in the capital market four years ago and 3 000 tolars in the books of the Slovenian Compensation Society, was suddenly 10 times as valuable in these standards, says that the capital investment has grown to 50 in books and, of course, the books have proved to be a wonderful result. It is a pity that many of these companies in which the Slovenian compensation company had shares did not take part in the capital market and therefore the value was the same as it remained. These companies were then sold at some value, which were sold by or at a later book value. Interestingly, this change has had another side effect, as it is called, which was very good for our country at least in the eyes of the international public. Indeed, it is necessary to know that, for example, EUR 320 million of the positive result of the Slovenian Compensation Society also affects, but in fact only fictitiously, the reduction in the share of our country's public consumption by 1%. Of course, then we can boast in the European community how our country has a lower deficit because the so-called share of public spending in GDP is declining. Our tax burden is reduced in this way, but in fact it is only a game of numbers that no one can actually influence because we have changed standards. The second point is that, due to the constant repetition and forecasting of the divestment of state property in individual companies on the Slovenian stock exchange, it had an impact on the increase in expectations. Interestingly, no one can deny that, at each projected sale, the shares of each company have started to grow sharply. This happened, say, just recently with Telekom, until suddenly the decision of the government or its sales commission to sell Telekom didn't go away. Look at the miracle or "weird," as Serbs would call it, suddenly the value of Telekom's shares began to plummet. It is interesting that in the portfolio of Slovenian compensation companies there are also shares of Telekom. First it was worth 100, now it's worth 60. What's the difference? Unfortunately, we do not now have a report on the first three months of 2008 on the operation or capital value of the Slovenian Compensation Society, but we are talking about the report for last year. But let's be a little honest with ourselves. We don't brag, we don't brag the day before dinner. Bear times have come, as they call it on the world and also on the Slovenian stock exchange. And not only as a result of global trends, as a reason, Mr. Director of the Slovenian Compensation Society, but because of our actions, due to events taking place on the Slovenian market. As the Government's direct action is practical in determining what will happen to the capital shares that the State has through the Slovenian Compensation Company or through a capital company or in the shares of individual companies that occur in the Exchange, the market is, of course, adapted accordingly. And here we have come to believe that the actual increase in the value of capital in the Slovenian Compensation Society is only the result of these two. There may also be some smart decision-making in the lead of the Slovenian Compensation Society, but far from being just what we have heard several times, not only today, but also at the meetings of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. And here I would point out that it will be necessary for the Slovenian Compensation Society to use the same style or arguments to justify the failures of the Slovenian Indemnity Society or the poorer results that will begin now that the trading times are poor, to explain, by the same arguments, the decline in the value of the remaining capital investments. According to the logic of the matter, it should insist on the interpretation it used at the time of the growth of the stock exchange, that these did not affect the excellent positive growth of the capital investment of the Slovenian Compensation Society, but that it was due to the administration. Therefore, when the stock market indices fall to reduce the value of the capital investments of the Slovenian Indemnity Company and their ability to pay the liabilities of the beneficiaries are not the fault of the stock exchange, but rather the poor investment and decisions of the management of the Slovenian Indemnity Company and its inability to adapt to bear trends in the capital market. I don't think we can use two completely different arguments in a year when we justify or justify events related to one and the same phenomenon. Here, on behalf of our Group of Members, I would like to say that, of course, we cannot accept the argument that we have heard from the Slovenian Compensation Board in the person of the Director, who claims that the decision of the Government last year was in the middle of the year when it was decided that the Slovenian Compensation Society does not act as a complainant against the decisions of the competent national authorities when it comes to deciding on the eligibility of denationalisation claims. This was one of the decisions adopted by the Government in terms of the so-called conclusion of denationalisation procedures. Of course, this decision is contrary to the legal obligation of the Slovenian Compensation Society and in our parliamentary group we are convinced that the Government should come to the National Assembly with such a decision and also amend the Act establishing the Slovenian Compensation Fund. Indeed, the fact is that, in this way, the Government, as a political body, acted contrary to its obligations when playing in the role of the Slovenian Compensation Society and with such a decision, after recklessly, it could be called an increase in the obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society, since the Slovenian Compensation Society should no longer complain on the basis of the eligibility of monetary compensation. Indeed, the fact is that a whole range of administrative authorities, and we can also prove it, have confirmed the eligibility to recover denationalised assets. At the same time, the natural recovery undertaking does not complain because it expects the Slovenian compensation company to settle its obligations to the beneficiary. There is simply no other way than that the Court is the one who complains, not the one who is liable to return. And it would be right to complain on the ground. Why? Because we have heard countless cases of property returning in nature or in compensation bonds to people or individuals who had no right at all. At the Commission's own meeting, we heard, for example, a case where the building on the ground was returning, which should have been returned to the beneficiary or in the form of compensation, but also a building that this beneficiary did not build at all and was not the owner of the land. These are individual village cultural homes in Slovenia, which were returned to denationalising beneficiaries who had the right to land only. And since it was a cultural home, of course we are not returning such an object in nature, but we are supposed to return it in the form of compensation, and the Court was a debtor, but it was not lawful for the Government to appeal on the basis of this decision. So, the fact is, things are happening that aren't even understood anymore. I understand that we must correct injustices and return to those who have been unjustifiably relieved, whose property has been unjustifiably nationalized. However, when it comes to returning the assets that have been acquired by credits that have been fully entered into as mortgages on these properties, it is said that this property should not be returned if such cases as I said before are likely to be the last instance that can still be appealed by the Slovenian Compensation Company. We simply say that you should not complain, and then the director argues or backs up this decision by the Government and defends it with a position, as we can complain about the amount of compensation. Yeah, for God's sake, come on! I mean, if you know that you can prevent the return of any property at all, then I guess you won't go and let the property be returned, and then you'll fight about the height. I think there's always a 100% difference between nothing and something. For this reason, we believe that this decision by the Government is certainly illegal and that the National Assembly should take a decision to abolish it or repeal it. I would like to comment on two more things that we discussed at the meetings of the Commission, both of them, or all of them, the question of selling shares in the IBI and selling Iskraemec. The Director's argument at the Commission's meetings was that Iskraemec's sale was the best possible sale even in the history of the privatisation of social property in Slovenia and that there is no way to repeat anything so good. But here I would comment that, in particular, recent events indicate that this was a bad sale, that the contract was concluded, as stated by a colleague at the commission's own meeting, that the contract is loose, that it does not oblige the buyer, that the production of electric counters in Slovenia will slowly shut down and that it will move to the most exotic places in the world, China, India, Egypt and so on. That the commitments signed by the buyer were written in such a way that they could be respected or not. And since Iskraemeca also has subsidiaries around the world, it means that investing in the development of Iskraemec in India is nothing illegal about this contract. If the contract were clearer, more specific, if it did not specify which leave a variety of possible interpretations, then what is happening here would not have happened. The Egyptian owner will gradually, first with the great noise and dissatisfaction of the employees, who will soon be among the unemployed, suffer for a while and then slowly terminate Iskraemeca in Kranj. This is a forecast that I hope will happen. As is the case across Slovenia, in those factories whose production is possible to move to countries with low labour costs, this is happening day after day, our workers and workers are losing jobs and jobs. However, as far as IBI is concerned, I must say that the management of the Slovenian Compensation Society can say that it is not their concern what happens to small shareholders. What do they care, after all, why should they worry that Iskaremec needs to keep the same number of employees as before, why should we "sex" because small shareholders in IBI are being cheated? In view of the fact that, as the fourth largest owner in the IBI, the contract was signed, other than 2007 but, due to the acquisition conditions, the transfer of the share was not carried out until the following year and, therefore, the buyer’s obligation to pay the takeover premium was absent. And with that, the small shareholders were played. But small shareholders are mostly employees in the IBI. And I think it shows here that we should talk about that companies, funds and the like that are owned by the state and managed by this government should not act as if they were wearing raincoats. But they have to make sure that the consequences of selling are positive, not only for the country as a whole, but not only for the Director to be able to boast with good business results, because he will have €320 million in surplus in his portfolio, but mainly to ensure the full well-being of our people in this country. Not just for today, not just for tomorrow, but for 10 years ahead. As a result, I think it is right to confirm at today's meeting the conclusions proposed by the Commission and to add to the conclusions proposed by colleagues from the Zares Group. I think it is high time that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia replaces the management of the Slovenian Compensation Society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the report. Mr. Magg has the word. Janez Petty Officer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. The Court was established by a specific mission to pay certain obligations to citizens for the denationalisation of war damage, correctional injustices and similar matters, and therefore it has acquired property, some capital portfolios, that with them, of course, the masters and with good management create the value with which it pays. This is a bit of an unfortunate story because whenever a country is owned by a portfolio of market-based enterprises, the question of whether it should manage in such a way as to squeeze as much from an ownership point of view as possible only an undertaking to make as much profit as possible or behave differently. And that is why, in history, the country has quickly renounced capital shares of market companies, market portfolios, because such a role is antagonistic. Even in cases where the company had only to generate profits, these were, say, tobacco factories, it gave up because it was not its role. Therefore, from this point of view, it should be pointed out that it is only reasonable to carry out obligations as soon as possible, those which our country must carry out from this historical period to close this chapter and deal with public matters. Otherwise, it is always difficult to explain whether this positive business is the result of efficiency, the expertise of the administration or not. Now, of course, we can say it's her fault. And what about the sale of individual equity shares? Are they sold at the right time or not? See how soon the market value of the stock on the market is going to be the same as the original price for sale. So, some claim that was three months ago, something is going to change diametrically opposite, and when is the real sale? That's when the real sale is the biggest breakout. And I'll tell you, with shares like this, 50% chance that you'll buy well, 50% is that you won't buy well. And the biggest experts, the ones who are on the stock exchange every day, will say exactly that. And that's why I'm saying that sales are sold under market conditions, but what happens in the long run is hard to say. Therefore, in fact, I appeal to that very plan of the state, the government, to sell transparently all these portfolios in market companies as soon as possible. What does he keep? What's connected to public infrastructure. Is then the objective of the Court of Justice is to create profits to squeeze, from an ownership point of view, these companies to reduce the wages of workers. Is that it? Yeah, it's not. It's not. But you see, it's an antagonistic role. All these claims, did the country sell well? I'll say sell it, it's not good or bad. Not good or bad. But it's bad when it's under the table, when it's agreed, etc. And by insisting on these equity shares of companies, without the necessary investment and modernisation being made, the value of these shares is being reduced, the value of the assets is being reduced, and therefore there is no reason for the State to maintain the silver because this silver is being converted into rusty iron due to such handling. There's nothing else. And in the long run, the next government will have the same problems if it is different or the same. About political interference. If it is the owner of this company, it must be included and it is appropriate to intervene because it has to manage it. How would it be if the state as title or Government or its institutions as titular owners did not do so? The government has to, it has to control itself, but this role in the market company is problematic. But you have to, don't tell him to have anything to do with it. Or let him go his own way. Her role is antagonistic. So let the Court perform this function. Thank God, it's a positive business. As far as business is concerned. Is it okay that the budget has a positive balance? No, it's not good to have a positive. Because this means that the state has collected too much money to perform the public function it has. But in this role, as she does, positive business is good. As soon as possible, it should sell these shares in market companies and remain in infrastructure what is really important for the creation of market enterprises so that they can operate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u30	Thank you so much for the word and a nice greeting to all present in the hall! Much has been said in the introductory presentations of the opinions of the groups of Members, so I do not want to repeat in my discussion those things that have already been said or said. In any event, it is necessary to be corrected and satisfied with the positive financial situation and the fact that the Slovenian compensation company is in a position to carry out the obligations for which it was established. That's a fact. Of course, this does not require any exhilaration, as has already been said today, over a favourable financial situation, because it is in some ways a time variable and depends mainly on the situation in the financial market. I agree with the speaker that it has been possible, given the information we have before us at the time of this report, and if this is repeated, to be allocated to this company too much state or former social property. On this occasion, I would like to recall that few remember the first version of the law on the ownership of former social property, when a significant share, about 10%, was also intended for the local communities at the time, because the fact that many of these contributed to this package of former social and then privatised property is a good thing to remember. As far as denationalisation and satisfaction are concerned, the practice of the Slovenian Compensation Society to participate in denationalisation procedures, which was not the case in the past, and was a source of problems from this title, must also be expressed in some way. However, there is certainly no positive second extreme that from the initial complaint to each decision now generally after the Government's decision it is not complaining, but of course it is as bad as before, only from another point of view. I have already warned on the committee's hearing, but I have not received a response to the warnings, and I have even received an invitation to submit the documents. I mean, it is a very strange situation if the Slovenian Compensation Society does not have or find documents to confirm these comments on inadequate or unjustifiable payments or commitments imposed by the competent administrative authorities in the denationalisation proceedings of the Slovenian Compensation Society; and sometimes another time. Since we have a "Report of the Supervisory Board" on the table, allow me to touch at least a small segment of this report. I have already said in the debate on the Commission, and here I will repeat that, according to the scope of the paper, the report of the Supervisory Committee is appropriate and we cannot claim this because it is quite dry. And even though the Supervisory Board has focused on three segments in its control of the Slovenian Compensation Company's operations and has tried to control them somehow, these are capital investments, public procurement and denationalisation procedures, it is interesting that four of the 37 cases were reviewed in the area of capital investments by the Supervisory Board, i.e. around 11%. In the field of public procurement, 6 cases of 26 cases have been reviewed, which means 23% of all cases and in the largest and most fundamental mission of the Slovenian Compensation Society, in the process of denationalisation, only 4 cases of 903 cases have been examined, i.e. 4.4 propravala, or if we are one or one of the entities in the field of public procurement, reports have been reviewed 52 times more or 25 times more in the field of capital investment. This, of course, indicates an unimaginable method or way of working. Secondly, in the core two areas, this is in the area of capital investment, where around 11% has been reviewed and in the area of denationalisation, where only good 4 cases have been reviewed, the Practical Supervisory Committee finds no irregularities. However, in the field of public procurement, 23% have been reviewed in the field of public procurement by every user of public funds, which is clouded by irregularities, shortcomings and differences in this report. It is also interesting that in the first and third sets, both in the field of capital investment and denationalisation, the addresses of the cases that have been controlled are disclosed. In the field of public procurement we are on a commission, interestingly, probably again this is the reason, a custom we have already experienced whenever there was any more important information that this was a business secret. These participants in public procurement, in one way or another, are covered but not disclosed, but in any case they are irregularities, shortcomings and so on. On those six, some others we don't have eyes on. As an illustration, I should mention only one or two cases and shortcomings. In the field of public procurement, it was a public relations activity worth EUR 9 million 860 thousand without VAT at the price of the hour of counseling or this activity 34,000, but it is not even a period of time, I mean the number of hours in the contract, nor is the contract prescribed a description of the parts from which it would be possible to identify what the contract partner’s task is. This is a very interesting contract and very interesting shortcomings without assessing whether or not it would be wise and economically justified to hire any 'piarer' or more, as it is easy to calculate that it is less than 300 hours of obligations for this money per year. This money and a solid salary could work for at least one or two years in this area. This can also be one of the conclusions. Of course, there are other irregularities in public procurement. There would be too many if you wanted to list, although only six cases have been processed and relatively enough. There should also be no distinction between tendering conditions and contractual obligations which cannot be in the correct implementation of the public procurement system. Anything else a broader person would say in this case, I will not talk about Mercator, because Mercator is today the content of the second point, although the report briefly mentions it. It is interesting that the Supervisory Committee or the President, when defending or justifying a report on the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances, has resorted too often to the excuses that it cannot explain that the members of the Supervisory Board are not professionals and that it has generally been spoken by a representative of the administration. Of course, it is not surprising from such relations or in such situations that, in the core areas that the Supervisory Committee should not control, this is capital investment and denationalisation procedures, there is virtually no flaw in the less important area that should be routine and in the field of public procurement a relatively high number of reviews, as well as a relatively high number of shortcomings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Chairman of the Supervisory Board Mr Robnik, Honourable Director of the Slovenian Compensation Society, Mr Marko Pogačnik! Nicely greeted! The Commission of the National Public Finance Supervisory Assembly has presented its report to us and is proposing to the National Assembly that we consider here in plenary the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society for two periods, one twenty-monthly, one year. Let me just remind you that in the past such reports have been considered for a four-year interval, it is said that this is today and in this practice in this mandate, so that we can take a closer look at the business of the Slovenian Compensation Society. Perhaps, I say, this consideration would not have been at the plenary session if this coalition had not taken the initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which went in this direction, that the majority of the Commission of the National Assembly has the opposition's public finances, which is right, and that the opposition is also leading this commission, which is also right. Today we have heard a lot of economic theory that I do not say science how to manage assets, even in this direction there has been a discussion, which really bothers me and pains me that the good business results of the Slovenian Compensation Society in these observed periods are accidentally good, that this is not the result of leadership, it is the Director and the Board of Directors of the Court, but that it is only a case that this is just a situation that has come in itself, which has somehow flooded the market of securities if you want. Nevertheless, at least a few numbers must be told to the Slovenian public. From 2004 to the end of 2007, the balance sheet amount of the Slovenian Compensation Society has in fact increased exponentially. Maybe that's the case, maybe. But if everything is so dependent on the case, then it would be necessary for those who so explain to propose that the simple leadership and administration of the Court dissipate and yet this property will in itself continue to grow exponentially. It is also important to tell the Slovenian public that the Court concluded last year, so I am talking about state 31. 12. 2007 to conclude with a surplus of €700 million, this is true, as has been said objectively today and several times, a record, historical record of business. Of course, we are aware that it is in the perspective that in the future these results will also depend on possible stock market failures or other major financial shocks. We are pleased to note that the Slovenian Compensation Society is extremely good at carrying out its tasks under the law and will have to pay around 1.5 billion in denationalisation payments by the end of its existence. However, this task has already been achieved in more than EUR 0.8 billion. I will not speak on purpose because I want to save time for my colleagues too, and I will not talk about Mercator, which is actually a permanent topic at any point in the agenda in this National Assembly, but I will save this content for a point specifically intended for Mercator's sale. Thank you very much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Dear President! I am sorry, fellow Members and Members, that some of those who have spoken so fervently today are not here with us now so that they can answer some of the questions as well. Yet, they seem to know for themselves that what they say is not entirely true. Here they tell their own what they have prepared, and they go. However, if I look at the conclusions of the Supervisory Committee in this report, which took note of the audit, the 2006 annual report and the 2007 financial plan, then in conclusion, what calms me, the following - if we give the supervisory authorities in this country something: "In the framework of the control, legality and financial performance of the company and taking into account all the above, the Company’s supervisory board notes that the company acted legally, professionally, rationally and economically during the period in question. And this thing calms me down and pleases me. With all its creation this year, 2007, for the first time, it has created a huge surplus. This picture here shows, in 2006, this broken Court, now in 2007: EUR 726 million, to follow all the legal provisions imposed on it by the National Assembly, as well as in previous mandates. After a new one, we added a return on telephony, so this commitment was accepted by this National Assembly that this balance sheet amount is more than EUR 2 billion, EUR 2.4 billion. And then I hear from Mrs Pecanova, I don't know what to say to this proposal, the leadership of the Court has to be replaced to come back, I don't know, until 2004, when this company was run by Mr Rop and Swickl until 2001, and when this company had a permanent loss every year. And then a statement by Members is indeed that the state of affairs is a time-consumer, and that this is actually a set of circumstances at the moment. Not to mention all those articles that were written in public when Mr Pogačnik became Director of the Court. What was written, what was not told by our colleague, Mr Cwickl, who is not here today, and who was also in office for a period of time when, as a member of the Board of Directors of the Court, he sold the property to the same company in which he sat on the board of directors. So these are things that need to be imagined and when our colleagues speak so vehemently, I don't know, every time about Mercator, they have added to Paloma, if we all know that there is a revision of procedures in Paloma, to see how Paloma is in such a state, why Paloma is in such a state, even those who are not economists, we know that the situation in Paloma is difficult, because the added value in this company is what it is and because the number of employees is what it is. With us in Ormož, the sugar factory closed down because it was a decision at the level of the European Union that the factory would not survive in the long run, and no one kept saying it because it was such a fact. It is surprising, however, that some of our colleagues, as a colleague of Peca, went to see how old he was, and I can see that he was born in 1971, which is 36 years old, which is the eighth year in Parliament, and he knows so much about the economy. When I asked him what company he worked in, he told me he had been working in the economy for 22 years. So he came to sit in the National Assembly and, of course, teaches us all about the economy, talks about everything he remembers, and he doesn't want to, as young as he is, with 50,000 euros to buy shares in the New Credit Bank of Maribor. Many people in this country don't have that kind of money. Not a lot of people in this National Assembly, not even that I could do something like that, but I'm a little older than him or a lot more than him. That's all I'm saying, I've protested procedurally before, so much over the thumb to speak, to accuse, to spit it all out, it doesn't look like an MP. That's not where you're supposed to be. That's not what you're saying. I would like to tell Mr Lahovnik, so do not speak, especially if people are not present. Because if you publicly accuse someone of receiving 60,000 euros in retirement, then you read that this one goes on to sue him, and so on, it's serious people who give something to their image, they don't say that. If you want to be an MP, then you also have to be a little careful about what you're gonna say and what you're gonna say, and not like this -- you're criminals, you're criminals, they're criminals, they're you, and I'm the best of all. I'll get it over with. In the end, I could only say that I congratulate the administration of the Court for these excellent results. But you also have to be careful in advance, and you still have a lot of responsibilities. It may also be possible for the State, the National Assembly, to decide in advance and also to add some of the things from our past, not so long ago, which we have not settled, in the area of denationalisation, to be slowly, thank God, close to the end, and we all want to get to the end as soon as possible - here, as I have already said, has been added to the telephone - and, of course, with great effort and great care, it will be necessary to continue to work on this asset, which the Court, as the owner of various companies, is acquiring through sales and investment, will continue to be used in this positive direction. Once again, we can only congratulate you on this report. And I conclude only with the fact that, in the previous term, when I was an opposition Member, of course, there was not nearly any need for the opposition to have a majority in the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances. I know how much trouble Dr. Bajuk, who was the chairman of this commission, had given up some year before the end of his term of office and had given up, because he said it was no longer possible, because he could not get any things through the commission anyway. Now you have, Mr Friday, a much easier situation, say, your findings and so on, your work is being considered by the National Assembly. This has not happened in the previous term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Patch, the replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u36	Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u37	Okay. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u38	Mr President, I know firsthand that sometimes it is very difficult to hold a meeting of the National Assembly, but I would like to warn you - and I hope you will give me these two minutes - regardless of writing your friends within the Slovenian weekly Saša Peca has never had an NKBM worth 50,000. I am sorry that, as a member of the National Assembly, you do not even know the system of privatisation procedures, so as to know that even the highest amount of the IPO was €7,000. So much for how someone talks over their thumb. However, I would like to point out - in addition to dementing and lying to my colleague Sok, which is not difficult - that his education must not be the basis for the performance of the Member or Member of the National Assembly. In this case, the right to speak on economic issues would be given; if we took a colleague from New Slovenia, Mr Sok, only veterinarians could talk about economic issues. And if we accept this as a fact, then we should not be surprised why the economic situation is so bad within our country. Allow me, however, regardless of the fact that I'm a graduate economist after my education, I'm going to take a look at economic issues. And I think, given the education that gives you all the breadth and knowledge, you're not the only veterinarian you know about the Court. Perhaps from this title also your statements regarding the company in your area that you have taken as a fact the loss of jobs. We're just different. I'm very proud of it, and so I'm glad I'm not limited in thinking. So, Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Starman, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I say hello to everything! As soon as we decided to turn our social political system from a socialist to a market-oriented economy, I said, it would take a very long, even more generation. Of course, these changes are fundamental and, of course, we were all aware that they would cause a lot of problems. One of the worst things we have done in our country in the last 15 years was, of course, privatisation. Determine to in some way distribute the so-called social property, which was the property of all, in some way as fair as possible, so that it will be defined and determined what is from whom. This, of course, has been done with some of the privatisation laws. We have decided to distribute certificates to all citizens - from 100,000 for a newborn to 400 000, depending on how many working days and of course we have done so. We also assessed the value of the assets that were to be distributed, the so-called social property. And then, let's move on. When we started privatisation procedures in specific companies, we had to reserve 10% of the shares that we had in some ways assessed for the compensation fund, 10% for the capital fund. One fund is intended to cover the compensation procedure for denationalisation and all others, while the other is expected to help with the problems already assessed by the pension register in the future when the ratio between the number of active population and the number of pensioners becomes significantly different. In addition, we had a so-called development fund, where we also had to reserve 20% of the shares. The rest of us went to privatisation and tried to cash out, obtain certificates in companies - first of all, those who were employed had an advantage in companies. This procedure has failed. That I won't be too long. Of course, we've all become property owners, no one has taught us what this means, and very quickly we've become, most citizens, the target of the diverse speculators who have smelled, according to the local saying that here in the perspective they can come to great wealth quickly, we've become targets, and so on and on and on many occasions in this National Assembly, I've said that, what I know, all Slovenians, we've got 2 million assets, which is at the present value, what I know, 40 billion euros, 50 billion euros -- that's an estimate. The Slovenian stock exchange index, just for comparison, was thousands of euros in 1992, now EUR 11 000 300, so it has grown 11 times since that year, without such market capitalisations. In short, about €40 billion, if I add up those certificates that were then distributed and somehow overvalued, I am valorizing them today, it has become, agreed, I would say, in the hands of a couple of thousands of Slovenians. In one way or another, people were very quick because they did not know what this property meant in the long term, for very low prices they were selling shares to various speculators in companies that were buying these shares, and now we can say that these 40 billion were previously owned by all, in some way owned by thousands of Slovenes, and of course we made great differences in our society between rich and poor. Many now that the factory workers are looking back, they say why we sold these shares, but now we have virtually no influence on what is happening to our company. Whether the owners will sell it or shut it down, or we lose our job, that's what it's done, we can't cry about it. One part of this property, as I mentioned earlier, is that we are looking at the whole package, in enterprises, in the Pydes, which have also become owners of the factory and, of course, the capital and compensation company itself. I must say that if in some way, if we were to consider, in the same way that we practically almost criminalise certain activities, if we treated all parts, all ways of privatisation in the same way, it would be fair. I think then what happened in the compensation society could be an example of what we've done with this property. Much more than the part we entrusted to the compensation society than the part we entrusted to others. If we take any estimate, 2 billion euros, or 2 billion 300 is worth the 10% that the compensation company has received from the beginning - how much it has paid for all the damages in these 10 or 15 years since it exists, but if we leave only what market capitalisation is, at this point it is 2 billion euros. Thus, workers and all other citizens received 60% of the assets, which should be at least EUR 12 billion. Thus, each of us should still have 6,000 euros in his pocket. Tell me, how many of us have these? We don't. So, anyway, in the compensation society, in one way or another, with all the mistakes that have been made, even the best managed by this asset for the benefit, I would say, taxpayers, what we like to say. It's similar in the Capital Society. However, I have always argued, but I still say, I have already proposed several times that the rules of the game should be corrected in the Capital Society itself and the ways in which shares are sold, how they change and what and how money is spent in individual matters. We always talk here, we talk about these things, we argue. My idea was, and I told her that it would be wise to take care of one place, even if it was a ministry, or anyone, that it was a professional service entrusted to state property, is to say what is state-owned; the power plant and so on, the one we have in banks and the one we have in Kad and the Court, and to set very precise rules for the game, what the state will do with this property, how it can be sold, how it can be sold, by what procedures the purchases go to - for damages, for pensions. We do not have a certain way of making the capital fund, which is intended to support the pension fund, annual yes. I know, years ago, in 2000, it was 6 billion tolars, I think in this year's budget was 12 or 14 billion tolars, so much euro if you count it. There's no telling what or how, what kind of relationship this is. At the end of the year, some donate the capital fund to the common treasury, says the budget, but there are no rules for the game. It would be wise to determine and also agree on what the country's strategy should be in terms of strategic interests, where it long-term wants to keep its shares and manage it, where we have portfolio investments, how to maximize profits. We know that in these countries, I say the case of Finland, when I spoke to the Committee on the Economy, they say that they have a special ministry that brings them, I don't know, don't hold my breath, I just think he said 4 billion euros in net revenue per year from the state-owned economy. There, too, we were told that most of the companies after the wars were established, and the state created them, because no one else had the capital and is still an important owner of the country, which sets out a strategy to withdraw from one of the segments, what I know, of ironworks, and goes to telecommunications. In short, this process of so-called privatisation of part of the country, the role of the state in this process and the creation of one truly clean market economy based on private property, on capital, where capital is supposed to drive development. I think that we are slowly approaching that if we had a good wish and will not argue for so long what was wrong, whether Mercator was actually sold or not, or whether we got too little, too much and back, or whether people got enough for their certificates, too little, with this story we are not helping ourselves. If we think that something is wrong, we should propose amendments to the Compensation Society Act, the treatment of state property, the capital company. The rules of the game should be laid down, which should be clearer, transparent and should be followed by those who carry out these services or manage such funds. The existing rules adopted by this Parliament, which apply, allow for all these things and all these dilemmas, and all these questions about transparency, following proper pricing, after proper action and so on, allow them. If we wanted them to be gone, we should change the rules of the game. Otherwise, of course, we can't push anyone anywhere and condemn him because if he works in accordance with the legislation and regulations, we are more guilty of ourselves if we haven't somehow provided appropriate legislation to prevent irregularities. So much for the subject. I suggest we take some steps to improve these situations, perhaps with clearer rules of the game, with certain changes to the law. But that this debate, what someone has done right and what is, is proof - I will say anyway, I have been on the other side of the economy for 30 years, and I know what these things look like - so I say, I also probably learned something from this, that it would be right to take into account certain knowledge and to do things differently. Otherwise, it's a waste of time to set up commissions, spending a lot of money on all things that can't change anything. We're accusing some of them on the basis of things we know they won't be able to be charged because they've been working by the rules of the game. But what's different is that we should, and I think, see this from different jobs, especially economic crime and these things that should have found out where these mistakes are. It's really a shame so many debates focused on this, in some political accounting, in some sort of point-gathering. Indeed, we are all in need of some teaching together, as well as what lessons we have learned from history, and I think that we are all making mistakes and we will work on them, and we are all obliged to listen to good suggestions and introduce them into our legislation in order to improve our situation. But what I said at the outset is that these transformations and these things are actually very long-lasting and difficult. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like to touch on the questions concerning the sale of Isckraemec. A few days ago, we read in one of the Slovenian journals: "The data of our sources suggest that the sale of Iskraemec would hide capital interests that lead to the very top of the SDS. Because of these interests, Engrotus was not allowed to buy years ago and, on the other hand, Egyptian buyers were able to convince them. SDS had influence and insight into the events in the company through Martha Jarc, member of the Iskraemec Supervisory Board and SDS Member's brother Branko Grims." End of quote. We asked both Minister Viszak and Minister Bajuk how they could have argued before the Slovenian public that the sale of Iskraemec to the Egyptian company El Seweedy for the acquisition of a strategic partner who will develop the system that will provide jobs and who will take care of the long-term prosperity of this important economic entity. By the way, they also confirmed the first members of the Soda and Kad, Mr Marko Pogačnik and Mr Tomaž Toplak. Marko Pogačnik also argued on the Commission for the supervision of public finances that it was one of the best sales contracts dealing with the divestment of state shares, and thus a bright example of how they could only hope and wish in the future to achieve such an optimal price and the most favourable possible conditions for the sale of state shares in individual companies. However, it is clear to every layman when he looks at the Iskraemec sales contract, that it was a great naivety of the seller, or, God forbid, for a deliberate conclusion of essentially harmful contracts, such as a good or at least decent master would never conclude. Let me mention just a few provisions of the contract, which, in response to my and my colleague's question, is also referred to by Minister Bajuk; and Minister Vizjak, who previously boasted of this purchase contract, now claims that he had nothing to do with this business. So, what does Minister Bajuk refer to? He says that the buyers have undertaken to invest up to EUR 30 million in the next four business years in Iskraemeco and its associated companies in order to further develop the company, including the following. By the way, I am commenting on what this means to "up to 30 million euros" - this can also mean nothing or anything that is up to 30 million euros. This Treaty also ensures that the number of employees in society will be maintained - yes, in society, but perhaps only in a company that has its own establishments in India and Malaysia. It is then said that this contract ensures the development of associated companies in India and Malaysia into regional production centres and so on, because, understandably, the labour force in India and Malaysia is significantly cheaper, is it not? Then it is said, and this contract says that society will continue to exist as an independent legal person who will operate in the Republic of Slovenia - yes, as if not as an independent legal person? Then it is said that, i.e. the new owner, will not change the name of the company, the seat of the company, and it will also be in the future in Kranj at its current location. What does that mean - maybe it means just a nameboard or a company that will stay in Kranj. Then it is said that the company will keep its development department - clearly, because this section is the only good which, of course, the new owner would not have hoped and would not have made sense to move it elsewhere. And it is said that society will maintain cooperation with Slovenian research institutions to the greatest extent possible. What exactly does that mean is unclear. To the greatest extent possible, it will cooperate, the question of what it means. It is then said that the new owner will maintain the share of equipment and services currently supplied by Slovenian suppliers if Slovenian suppliers provide the appropriate quality of equipment at competitive prices. What does that mean, at competitive prices? I must say, the more loose these things could not be determined. And if you look closely at this contract, you will find that the customer will first commit to some conduct in the main sentence, in the second part, and in the secondary sentence will rejuvenate this commitment and put it into question, depending on whether there will be any further conditions that will allow this commitment to be fulfilled. It is true, at least to me, that with what ease, unprofessional and irresponsibleness, the seller has agreed to this and such a contract. And where are we today, of course, we ask ourselves. Clearly, what we were afraid of from the beginning began to unfold. In fact, 430 workers are already offered, read - force them into the new company Iskraemeco ProS, where they are provided with employment for a maximum of 12 months, i.e. employment for a maximum of 12 months. If we were right, it was only for the new owner to gain a successful "know-how" to get rid of strong competition in activities and then move the establishments to Malaysia and India, where the labour force is significantly cheaper than in Slovenia, this is therefore just the beginning. Visjak, Bajuk, Pogačnik, and Toplak will apparently wash their hands and tell the naive what a good deal they made. Today employees in Iskraemec, tomorrow the unemployed will go to the Employment Institute. That this is a matter of embarrassment, a farce and a very uncertain future for employees is clear today. Whether it is intentional injury or injury due to negligence, I hope we will have a chance to find out in the future - if, of course, there is a number of other rule of law in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u43	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite the Member of the Happy Hwauc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the current debate and the presentation of opinions, there have been quite a lot of hard words about how everything is wrong, how it is sold out, how under impossible conditions this former social property is sold out. In short, it's all wrong. In proof of this, I have heard very few cases - perhaps three, four, which some as parrots have been repeating since previous discussions and from the Commission and from similar topics that have already been on the programme in the National Assembly. I'd just like to ask ourselves which property we're talking about. Soda's assets are 10% of the former social property, and if we put it together, that's 20%, the rest went somewhere, I don't know where. At first, we were all shareholders, all the same, today, if we look at this property, it's gone, it's gone, or it's gone somewhere else, into the hands of some narrow groups. If we are talking so carefully about each company individually, then it would be good to talk about this very large portion of former social property that has gone somewhere else. That's the first thing I want to say. Secondly, respected colleague Peca said in his speech that shares bring governance, dividends, rights to liquidation, which, of course, I also agree with as an economist. However, there is something else that needs to be highlighted: shares also bring risks or responsibility for reducing or losing property. This falls on the shoulders of shareholders or shareholders in this case. If we look at the results of the Court's business in recent years, we can be concerned. In 2000, business output minus 15 billion, 2001 minus 19, and so on, 2003 minus 31.2004 minus 33 billion Slovenian tolars. What did those responsible then do? Doing business started to improve only in 2005, when after many years it was the first positive result or business outcome. And if such trends as they have been in previous years continued, today we would not be discussing this balance sheet sum at all. Some pointed out that the administration or management of the Court had nothing to do with these results, as if it had come from the sky, that the administration could by no means affect the price of shares on the market. It is said that there has been an automatic improvement in business since 2005. Perhaps leadership does not have a direct impact on the price of shares, but it has an impact on investments, on the quality of investments, on the quality of management of these investments. And this is the contribution of this management. Secondly, when we discussed the budget, the inflation, the public finances, then some argued that these current results were not the result of the government's policy, but that the prices in the market are the result of good, thoughtful measures taken by this government, reforms, well-thought public finances. But when the results are good, it comes in itself when the results are less good, and then it is the government’s fault. Well, colleague Lahovnik also talked about this, that these processes were going on in an uncontrolled, untransparent way, even in the amendment of the Group of Members, we can really read that it did not follow good practice and so on. However, in the case of good practice in the report of the Supervisory Committee for this period, it follows that, in accordance with the decision of the Supervisory Committee, when it has always agreed to sell its share to the company, the Court of Justice also specified the selling price of the share. However, from materials available for a time when the board of directors of Soda Anton Rop and a later respected colleague of Cvikl approved the sale, the authority did not determine the price or the price of the sale. This means that the board of directors gave the Director of the Soda Bianca permission to sell the shares of a particular company, and this is then a good practice that you are reading to us. It's a transparent business, it's an economic activity, it doesn't allow corruption, customerism and things like that. At the same time, these gentlemen at a time when inflation was even greater, much greater than today, to win stable awards, received these awards in German brands, even though we had another currency at the time. So much for that. Then, see, three cases were largely exposed to harmful sales. One of them is the IBI. And there two colleagues mentioned that the IBI was sold for EUR 3 million, of which it was only in the investment portfolio Triglav 1.5 million. Now perhaps something about Triglav and economic orientation, as far as the state's shares are concerned. The first was the asset or the value of Triglav was estimated at EUR 252,8 million, or the stock value at the time was EUR 112,91. Under this guidance, the Court did not agree with this price, so a re-evaluation was made in 2006 at the beginning of 2006, and this valuation showed that the value of the property of the Triglav Insurance Company was more than EUR 500 million. So much for economic behavior, so much for transparency. This difference was due to the fact that the results of life and property insurance were not taken into account on purpose at the first valuation. And then someone tells us that we don't treat this property well. I would have concluded. Of course, I cannot agree with these conclusions proposed by the Commission, and I cannot support these amendments of the Really Group, because I do not think they reflect the actual situation, that some of these things are completely flat-rate and that is why I will not support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Member Cyril Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! First, I would like to say that I do not agree with the views of some who call on the Government that it is necessary to lead the Soda and also to replace Kato as soon as possible, if it works badly. I think that today we have proved that this is not true or that it is the other way around, perhaps partly due to legislation, the work of the Court and the Kato is significantly more transparent than it has been in the past. It was said that it was the wrong decision of the Government that the Court should not complain on the basis of the eligibility for denationalisation. I think there are a number of cases that are instructive about this. In cases where these amounts are small and represent costs significantly higher than the denationalisation amounts themselves, I think that is why the complaint is inappropriate. It is known that the Court has appealed to these decisions in practice to all those who have been positively resolved for denationalisation beneficiaries, solely on the grounds of delay or mostly on the grounds of delay. While this has been achieved, we have in a number of cases, and I will remind you of one, this is the Betnave case, how much more, due to complaints later, we have to pay as a state to the denationalising beneficiary. It's not just this case. I think there are a lot more of these cases. The Court of Justice and the Court have also adopted its position that, in the event that it considers that the complaint is justified, it will appeal in spite of the decision of the Government. However, I think the most cases are cases where the complaint is pointless. As far as Emec's moving is concerned. It was said that this production would go to another location. You know, this is happening to us, and it's going to happen in cases where the Court is going to sell companies, and in other cases. These productions are moving not for any other reason, but mainly for reasons of cheaper labour, and this will certainly continue to happen in the future. The predecessor talked a lot about the transformation of the insurance company Triglav or the valuation. I wanted to say a few words about that. I think it was one of the typical cases where it was unfair or imprudent to get to a large amount of property. Thank God it was at that time that the government was replaced, that then Minister Bajuk intervened and things got on the right track, and the country was not harmed by about 250 million euros, which I think is a very large amount, and it is right that this has gone so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Member Bebler's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. What the speaker has just claimed will continue to happen in the future is that the establishments will move to other locations and to other countries for reasons that the labour force will be cheaper there. I can agree with him, but I would like to point out that both Minister Vizjak and Minister Bajuk have argued that in this case Iskraemec's sale the buyer has undertaken to ensure that jobs are maintained. Ensuring or retaining jobs means here one of the items of the contract we are talking about. This is not the same situation far from the same situation. So don't fool around. In this case, the buyer undertook to maintain jobs in Iskraemec, not that the employees would know at this sale that the new owner plans to move the establishments to India and Malaysia very soon. Of course, because the labour force is cheaper there, the employees here will go to the unemployment office. I guess we can't agree to this kind of deception anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u49	Thank you very much. There's a MEP with a word. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u50	Good day to you all. Of course, the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Court for the period May-December 2006 and then for 2007 should discuss individual cases. And it's right that we're talking about them. But first I'm going to talk about, in my opinion, what's the bigger problem of Soda, and this is its management of stories related to denationalisation, and I'm going to go just to what some colleagues here have been saying. To make thesis that it is right for the Court not to complain because we lost €8 million to Betnav, it is either ignorance of the facts or deliberate deception. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not the Court, settled with the Church for EUR 8 million. When the Court complained, there was still a provision from the 1970s, 1980s that the Church and the Municipality of Maribor agreed on all their obligations and then the Government decided to add 8 million euros in December 2006 for reasons unknown to us at the correspondence meeting. The Court was established by the Property Change Act because the Demos Coalition decided to be the most generous method of denationalisation we had in any country of transition. In Slovenia alone, the total denationalisation obligations were not maximized. In Slovenia alone, this was a matter, if you want in the end, of great negotiations between beneficiaries and debtors. And if they didn't have a Soda, there would be a lot more Betnav like that, especially, there would be a lot more return in nature for things that the law has made clear that when there is a public function there, things don't come back in nature. I am sorry that in the denationalisation law we failed or failed then, the Demos Coalition, to write down that net assets will be returned, but you have returned the asset, the burdened debt, what is being done now in the material compensation law, when even the "recoveries" in the phrase "lossed returns". Therefore, the story of the Court by the end of 2004 is a story where the Court responded correctly to questions of denationalisation. Therefore, it is unacceptable for me that the Government should take a decision saying to the Court that it must no longer complain. And Members and Members of the National Assembly have rejected the adoption of a law on the conclusion of denationalisation a few days ago on the basis of which such an illegal decision by the Government would possibly be legalised. This has also been rejected by SDS Members. The Court should continue its role in the field of denationalisation, and this is the role of adequately covering those obligations which are legally necessary. And now we're going to, if you want, asset management. Slovenia has entered the European Union under certain conditions. One of these conditions was that good governance principles must be followed in the management of state assets and in their eventual conversion to the liquid assets needed by the Court. I call it, it is necessary to act under the CAP, it is not a law on criminal proceedings, it is a common agricultural intelligence. Every good master must act that way. However, since Kad and the Court are a shareholding society, political institutions are, at least politically controlled, in Slovenia when we passed the Public Finance Act in 1999, 2001 before the first major sale of Nova Ljubljanska Banka, Lek and so on, we wrote 20 articles from 80a to 80j of the Public Finance Act, where we defined how state property is being sold. Not as Mrs Andrijana Starina Kosem said there is a commission, she sits in the government on Thursday morning, but by establishing a programme for the sale of state financial and real property and that individual programmes are then established for each programme approved by the National Assembly. And the same philosophy was transferred in 2001 to the statutes of Sod d.d. This provision of the Statute still applies. Still gentlemen sitting on the right side of us, Mr Pogačnik and Mr Podpečan, he is not here today, the President of the Management Board, must act under this law. Mr Robnik, Chairman of the Supervisory Board, must see that this is indeed done. And it is unacceptable to me that the report of the Supervisory Committee does not point out that the status of the Court of Justice of the Slovenian Compensation Society, a shareholder company, is in grave breach. If we had a normal economic society, we would immediately know who is responsible - the Supervisory Board. Of course, we have a special company, which also has a supervisory committee appointed by Parliament and a board of directors. And these two together are also financially and indemnity responsible for actions that do not follow the Public Finance Act, especially if there is damage, as we have seen, and we will be discussing very much at the next point today. And deals like: Iskraemeco, Mercator, Mercury, NKBM if you want, otherwise not directly connected, are transactions where it comes and there is damage to state property. And the government, which is the Assembly of the Court, which also approved the Statute of the Court, should act. I think it is therefore unacceptable to propose, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, ladies of the coalition, the conclusions you have proposed are a kind of mockery from Slovenian taxpayers. The Court is expected to act legally, professionally, rationally and economically in the period covered by the report referred to in the preceding paragraph. Legally, professionally, rationally and economically. It didn't work legally. The Statute was not respected and the Public Finance Act was not respected. Professionally. I'd say the teams on the Soda were when they were left behind when they were asked, they were working professionally. However, in some of the core transactions, these groups were eliminated. The best example is Iskraemeco. Mr Pogačnik was appointed not only as the director of the company, but was appointed as Chairman of the Supervisory Board in Iskraemec to avoid the sale of Iskraemec to the Tuš Group, along with Ultra. He was suddenly appointed a great specialist for electric counters to sell it two years or a year later to a company that we know what he's saying today. Professionally, when asked, the teams worked properly. However, no one asked any more questions about these basic business dealings. Rational?Oh, my God! Rationality and economy have a common Slovenian expression - prudence. And the Court of Auditors, as the Supreme Audit Institute, found that they did not act prudently. That there's a great deal of risk in this and some other business. See, the fundamental question, Mr Pogačnik, is this. I read your statement. You sold Iskraemeco to the Egyptians rather than to protect the company in a conflict of interests between owners and creditors. What happened at this firm? Iskraemecco was a company that - we know who ran it - may have fallen asleep in its adaptation. But it did have some good products. [[Digital counter]] with experimental production in Sweden. However, those who were the economic owners of this Iskraemec, and these are the creditors, should put something into it. And, of course, Mr Bayuk, as a finance minister, was afraid of what would happen on the balance sheet of some banks if that were to happen. Therefore, the sale of Iskraemec to Tuš, Engrotush and Tušmobile was prevented and so on. And then came the new supervisory board and Mr Pogačnik became a great acquaintance of electric counters, digital counters, and the result a year and a half later, as the colleague presented him. Is that rational, economical? Is that worth it? Of course I don't think that's true. Second. You say that the Court is supposed to take appropriate measures to speed up the process of denationalisation. I agree with this decision if you add here "to speed up and cost-effectiveness of denationalisation procedures for denationalising beneficiaries". Whether this is justified from the point of view of the law, or whether this is what the law intended, or whether this will make it possible for Slovenian taxpayers to return interest through the recovery or payment of the bonds only what the law stipulated, and of course we cannot confirm that. That is why I cannot take this decision on the acceleration and cost-effectiveness of procedures as it is here. And it is said that the Court has adopted an appropriate strategy for the charging of free money. I can only repeat here what he said I don't know who already, Mr Damian, that this government has just happened to her as a stupid potato farmer. At the end of the term of office of the previous Government, the Court had a loss in its balance sheets. Not because it would be a real loss, but because the accounting standards then allowed investments in the balance sheet only at nominal value. There has been an entry into the European Union, preparations for the adoption of the euro, changes in accounting standards, and this has changed the balance sheet of Sod. Since 1994, most economists in Slovenia have known that 10% of the value of Slovenian companies is huge. However, it was right to act rationally, carefully, because if someone thought that money was enough, we would simply distribute these denationalisation bonds. No, you had to act carefully. But to say that the Court has adopted an appropriate strategy for the charging of free money and the management of capital companies, because standards have occurred in the meantime and because this minus has turned into a plus, it is a bit barefoot. That is why, of course, I cannot take these decisions, and I regret that you will reject the decision by which we call on the Government to annul the decision on the so-called cessation of denationalisation after you have rejected the law on the termination of ownership. At least be consistent in your votes. I will support the decision of my opposition colleagues, who say that the government as a assembly should nevertheless find that the Court of Public Finance Law, which is still in force, does not respect and that this would be necessary, calls on the governments to initiate appropriate procedures against the supervisory and management authorities of the Court. But you know, we've been working against this in Parliament for the last three years. Therefore, I believe that you have concluded that the Government should act against the non-transparent and opaque sale and initiate appropriate procedures will not be accepted. You set up the so-called Marine Commission here. I'm sorry. First of all, it was the Dobrojka Commission, now it's the Marinic Commission. Because you're reviewing business, but you haven't made it to the main business, to the affair of all affairs, Mercator. The lady was even preparing, Adrian Starina Kosem, to come to the committee, but of course she was no longer invited. It is therefore important that we discuss this today and that the people of the Court, the Court's Supervisory Board, the Court's Administrative Authority, the Society's Director, are aware that they are responsible for their actions materially and indemnity. Especially if these actions are non-compliance with their own statutes of law on public finances. Finally, Mr Hvauc, who said there were no transparent sales in the past and so on. See, for four years of the previous mandate, Mr Bajuk led the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, which was what it was called, and I do not recall a meeting where he would open up the problem of any sale. You even invited the Court of Auditors to review the sale of Viator & Vector, Hotels of the Sea and so on. The Court of Auditors found that these sales were economical, prudent. That's what it says on the Court of Auditors' website. If you invite anyone to the commission, at least invite him to those jobs that were not "like" transparent. But I have to do it again here. In previous mandates, the operations of the Court were carried out in accordance with the legislation in force at the time. This is particularly important when the biggest sales were made, which not only accelerated the development of some companies, but also achieved the corresponding takeover premiums. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u52	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President, Your Honourable colleague and colleague. In terms of uncertainty, I ask you very much to warn the speaker that the commission he spoke about is not a Marine Commission, but it is the Investigation Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the alleged damage to state property in the sale of shares of the Capital Society d.d., Slovenian Compensation Society d.d. in companies. I think that it is important that you distort things, not only to me who leads this commission, but to deceive the Slovenian public, but also to hide what has been read to you on this committee and in some way argued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Hold what you said. So the Commission has its own title, as defined by the National Assembly. Comrade Squeakle, I am asking you about this because it was actually your fault, of course I cannot give you my word and I will not give it to you because my colleague Marinič has the right thing to do with it. Can we proceed with the debate? Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. I would, of course, like to make a proposal to hold a debate and talk about the report as such. Of course, colleague Swickl is talking about everything else, less about the report itself, but of course I would like to correct at least two of his statements myself. First of all, it's not Demo's. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u55	Please, if you have any corrections to his statement, use the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u56	Yeah, you can. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u57	You can't even the procedural and the replica. Please, if you don't do this, if you turn it off and I'll give you my word for the replica. I'm just going to give my colleague a little later.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will take this proposal of yours into account, but of course I would ask if you, as President, behaved as such in this House, because you yourself have used the procedural proposal to respond to some others.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Therefore, the only legitimate procedural proposal was the procedural proposal of colleague Marinič. Can we proceed with the debate? Another procedural proposal, Comrade Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u60	I apologize to Mr Marinič, his commission is indeed called the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly to establish political responsibility and I want you to identify this political responsibility in this part of the political responsibility. I don't agree with the commission's title. Too bad it's not enough. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u61	Thank you so much, buddy. You said the point. We can continue on the basis of the list of applicants, to the words of Ambassador Jožef Jerovška. [[He's not here.]] Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Member Jože Tanko has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! When I listened to this more than three and a half discussions, I took note of the fact that the time period in which major historical developments were taking place was very short. From this debate, I have found that this has been repeated eleven times that it is the historical results of the Slovenian Compensation Society, that this time period has been reduced from 10, 50 and 100, as well as 2,000 years to 3 years, and today epochal historical movements are also taking place within this three-year period. Otherwise, the report that we are considering today is a report by the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, which, as members of the Supervisory Committee themselves say, do not deal with the policy of managing the service, but with its strategy, but less with economic efficiency, but only with the assessment of the conduct of the company's programme and strategy. Today we do not have before us the full functioning of the Slovenian Compensation Society. And if they hold certain statements in public by people who are close and close to the political summit of this current government, then there was also a lot going on outside these formal frameworks, which, of course, was discussed and evaluated by the Supervisory Committee of the Compensation Society. In the so-called ones I will appoint, the secret boxes that met in the government palace and, according to the statements, also decided on individual sales of the shares of the Soda, not only the Soda, but also Kad. The question, of course, is rightly raised as to whether the Court did so effectively in last year 2007 when the financial market situation was so favourable. Here I would only comment when colleague Hvauc said that in 2004 there were losses of 33 former billion tolars and in 2005 there was a positive balance. And if it is not true that it is the introduction of new European financial standards, whether you have earned these 33 billion tolars on the market with available capital, or what greater experts say is that it is only the introduction of new European financial standards and the balance sheet sum has thus been corrected and proved. It is therefore a bit excessive to hear today when both leadership and members of the coalition boast the results of increasing society's assets due to good investment. Yes, it is partly true, but when you talk about it and how good the leadership is here, then it is good that, even in any other debate, or even in this debate, commend the employees in those societies where you have your shares and have helped to make these shares so high on the market. But when we have another topic, and then those who have created this good result also your Slovenian Compensation Society, of course, forget about these people and have very little of it. Therefore, I do not think that the operation of the Court is maximized because we simply cannot measure it through investments in the financial market. At least two or three cases that have already been mentioned today prove this. It's a Mercator, and it's finally Iskraemeca, where the things that were agreed as cow deals were under the table, and I'm not going to talk about damage to social property, but things were sold at a price. For one of these cases, the matter is clear and we will not repeat, and in August 2005 this was agreed at the government palace with the President of the Government. But we heard about all the other cases that you were meeting on Thursdays before the government's meeting. And in the end, because there was nothing to talk about today. The Slovenian Compensation Society itself and Kad also had another important task, which is not covered in these reports and there is nothing written about it - this is the human resources combination that you had in companies where the state via Soda and Kad is a partial or majority owner. In these three years, you've replaced more than 400 people. People in positions, you've proven in these three years, you can also hack, cut, cut, sack off the throne, throw, who you can't cancel, or you couldn't cancel, you showed him the door. Those who have survived all this torture, this mobbing under the new penal code, have survived, and have eventually resigned for health reasons. This is another important work you have done, and there is no mention of it in this report by the Supervisory Board. And I'm not going to congratulate you today, of course, but I'm giving you a minus on your work done.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u63	Thank you. I give the word "magic." Anton Rope. [[He's not here.]] The word is from Dr. Matthew Lachovnik. [[He's quitting.]] Member Milan Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u64	It's going so fast, it's hard to find myself in this situation. Today's debate on the reports of the Supervisory Committee is very, very welcome to everyone, to us Members, especially to the voters, to the people of Slovenia, who in this way understand the role and importance of the Court in this society, in this economy, and also to the other influences of the Court on life in Slovenia. In order for this to happen at all and to be possible, the Commission is responsible for overseeing public finances. Before that, someone was "assuming" how the former president couldn't do anything. Today we have at least a position in which the majority position of the opposition is in the Commission and in this way you can actually bring a document to the National Assembly as well; if it were the other way around, this matter would have been stopped by the Commission. And that's why it's a good thing, because, after all, through this debate, we've all figured out how little we know, how few people know the business or the duties and obligations of the Court. For this reason, I believe that we have been obliged to disclose to the electorate things about the event or the exercise of orders in the Court. Most in this House, I am sure now, will reject the proposed conclusions - both those proposed by the Commission and those proposed by the party Really, but I think that, most importantly, the voters will decide who to believe in this story. We all remember the magnitude with which the government began to interfere in relations and the economy during the initial period. We all remember how she appointed Director Sod, Mr Pogačnik. Some of us who have been following him better also know what dose of arrogance he has used in his work for some time. Thank God, at the end and towards the end, he also calmed himself and found that parliamentarians are also an integral part of his obligations to be respected. Although I must say that this is not the case with the operations and reports of the Supervisory Board. We can't load this label here. The fact is that from the outset Mr Pogačnik has been chosen primarily because he is a member of one political option that is a member of the coalition. Since he is a member of the coalition, of course he feels very strong in this story, as this coalition will in any case protect him. Today's debate also shows how the Members of New Slovenia, in particular, have taken to the defense of their Director. But that's a legitimate right. That's right. What a feeling and impression we have made, of course, is another story. We have all experienced, in kind or in kind, praise, thanks to the coalition Members, how well we have done business, how well it has been sold and so on. No one among us has disputed that the Court is necessary and that the Court has carried out its task. Nobody. All or most have found that in principle and generally speaking, the business of the Court is relatively solid. But we wanted to point out that there are some mistakes, that there are some actions, that there are some procedures that require more attention. And this was our task, and this was also the task of our debate today. Some used the term "historic", i.e. historical business results. The fact is that I remember in this Slovenia the term "historic" [[...]] [[A warning sign from the end of the debate.]] for independence, for admission to NATO, for entry into the European Union. [[...]] Yeah, well, it's the historical business of Soda, and that's a little excessive. I don't think these praises and those expressions have to be shared in this National Assembly. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Ambassador Breda Pecan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will take this opportunity to say what I have not been given an opportunity to say when I read the Commission's report on the supervision of public finances. In fact, it is a very important topic and question. At the meeting of the Commission, we also discussed how the Supervisory Committee chooses cases of denationalisation and sale of capital shares, which are then reviewed in more detail and determined whether everything was really so transparent and well done as we have heard today and also in the past days and months. It is interesting that one of the data, which may also be important for the Slovenian public. And I don't mean to say that this is a criticism of the board. They do just as others have laid down in the Rules of Procedure, not them. But when we talk about random selection, we usually look at not only the number of cases that have been solved over a certain period and monitored, but also the value of these cases. For example, if we look at 10% and 9% of the five-fifty sales of capital shares in this case, because 55 sales and 5 sales were reviewed, it would also be important to take into account the value of these sales and at the same time cover five cases that would reflect about 10% of the value of these sales. But it was different. Of course, I do not know how the Supervisory Board chose - whether it had 55 leaves with numbers, or whether it had any other cases. But when they saw that these 5 cases were only worth one blow to the entire value of the capital shares sold, they should stop and imagine and say, "That's pointless." Therefore, of course, the Director of Slovenian Compensation could have said when the issue was raised regarding the capital loss in the sale of one of the companies, or the share in one of the companies, that this was a negligible amount. Of course, it's a negligible amount if it was just two million and a half tolars of loss. But maybe some sort of thing, some kind of sale, would make a bigger difference, and especially maybe if it were big sales, because it pays off there, they usually say that if I do something wrong, I'll do it wrong so that it'll be known. I don't think I'm gonna go steal a chicken. I'd rather do something else. Here is a case where it would be appropriate for the Supervisory Board to choose cases for future control both in denationalisations and in sales that have some weight. It is said that it is approximately a proportional number with the values on which it is discussed. I would like to reiterate that, however, there are problems with the consequences, if not the other, of selling Iskraemec and IBI to Kranj. In this respect, it would be appropriate for the Slovenian Compensation Society and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which represents the assembly of this company, to do something about it. I would also suggest that, however, when we decide on the decisions, consider it appropriate for colleagues in the coalition to inform Slovenian voters that certain things about the conduct of the Slovenian Compensation Society, in particular its management and not its supervisory committee, I would like to stress once again its leadership, care and that it is important to radically change the methods of work, and in particular it is likely that some who are full of themselves will step back a little bit and look at themselves. So let's make room so they can climb themselves and see how much they're actually worth. That is why I believe that the decisions, namely the amendment proposed by the Reale Group to point A of today’s first point, are that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, as the Assembly of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, have repeatedly failed to take into account the method of sale prescribed by the Public Finance Act when selling the capital investments of the country with which it operates those activities. The Slovenian compensation company did not ensure transparency of the procedure. It did not present an answer and coordination and did not take into account good practice and its own operating acts, since during the sale it did not provide a transparent traceability of all stages of the sales process and even acted in non-compliance with its own acts. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to initiate appropriate procedures against the supervisory authorities and the management bodies of the Slovenian Compensation Society due to non-transparent and opaque sales which raise suspicion of corruption and clienteleism. And in the case of the B Decision, the following point is to remind the Government of the Republic of Slovenia again as the Assembly of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, that the Slovenian Indemnity Society has not led the sale effectively on several occasions. So there's a risk that she didn't make the highest purchase. Due to insufficient diligence in the conclusion of sales contracts there are risks to the existence and continued operation of companies. This is a subject that was opened and conceived several times today. I believe that no consideration of the ownership of the owner, which is also a para-national institution, ends when the capital share is sold. Therefore, we believe that the Slovenian Indemnity Company was wrong when it sold capital investments and did not include in the contract any additional insurance assets such as buyers' commitments for additional investments. It did not ensure that jobs were maintained. Moreover, in some cases, the sale did not allow for the establishment of an ownership structure that would strengthen the company’s competitive position and enable it to do so. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] achieving long-term strategic objectives. [[...]] For this reason, I believe that appropriate procedures should be initiated. And only the government can do that to prevent further damage. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Comrade Rudy Veršnik, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! First of all, I would like to ask my fellow Members to decide once who they want to replace, the Director or the Supervisory Committee. In fact, two statements are completely different and I think it would be right to reconcile them first. Well, I'd say the following. If we already hear a request for relief from those who in the past have been responsible for both sales and at the same time as the President of the Supervisory Board of the sold company, then I think I can safely say that the request for the discharge of the administration and the Supervisory Board is completely unrealistic and irresponsible. In view of the debate that has been held today in this National Assembly, I think the work has been successful, and I suggest that they continue to manage this fund so successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The text should be given by script to the non-governmental representative of the Government and to the proposal for an act. You have five minutes at your disposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. Shaded [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u71	Comrade Squeakle, now he has the floor to propose. Let's just let him say it to the end. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u72	Dear Members and honourable Members! I regret that we actually have only five minutes of time to present our results in a five-hour debate and perhaps some arguments that could be put forward in view of the debate that took place in the National Assembly. I would just like to mention that we can gladly say that the Slovenian Compensation Society for the first time since its inception has been talking about surpluses and that the National Assembly which last considered the report [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u73	If you'll allow me to interrupt you from this place. I'm asking you to stop his time. My friend Squeakle was right. It was my fault. The proposer shall be the body, the supervisory committee. So I give you my word, please. And thank you for your warning, Comrade Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u74	I'm sorry, but we have to follow procedure in the National Assembly. The drafter of the document is the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, which supervises the gentlemen on the left of him, Mr Director of the Company. And the director of the company can't report here to the supervisory board. Here the report of the Supervisory Committee may be presented by the Chairman of the Supervisory Committee appointed by the National Assembly. Mr Pogačnik was not appointed by the National Assembly, I hope he never would have, but he appointed Mr Robnik. That is why I apologize, Mr Vice-President, but it is, of course, procedurally correct for him to present a report here on behalf of the applicant or whatever needs to be said, Mr Robnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u75	Yes, Comrade Squeakle, you're right. That's why I interrupted the director. I invite a member or Chairman of the Supervisory Board to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Respectable and esteemed National Assembly! As early as the morning hours of my opening talk, I anticipated that there would be about the same scenario as it was two years ago. Even then, instead of talking about the report given by the then-supervisory committee, we discussed inevitably the black hole, the financial problems that await us in the future. And even today - I must say - I expected to hear a word about the material delivered to you by the National Assembly of Supervisors. However, three, four selected cases were under discussion. I have to say this: I did not understand from all this whether we are doing what the National Assembly wants, even though I think we are right. This also confirms the last thought of Mrs Breda Pecan when she has given us some guidance on what these reports should look like in the future. However, it is necessary to say, and even in the morning, I said among the lines that, as the content of the Supervisory Committee and those of today's competences are written, there is no talk of whether - no - I know where to go. Like some in the National Assembly. It would suggest thinking about the different content of the Supervisory Board. I have also made this as some kind of proposal to the National Assembly as a new form of operation of this Supervisory Committee or simply to terminate it. Even today, quite frankly, I did not feel that there was much flying on the oversight committee. Because more and more things have been going on about things that -- I have to say -- we haven't even been briefed indirectly. I don't know any beds or anything. I'd like to say this. Firstly, we have prepared a report by the Supervisory Committee in a way that we have uncovered some cases, which has certainly not been the case in the past. In the past, I will recall once again the March 2006 meeting of the National Assembly when we discussed how the black scenario was soon to follow. I'm afraid that's not how it happened. Some things have been attributed to the supervisory board, which it doesn't. The Supervisory Board, in one of its statements in the report, which is now under discussion, has not praised the management of the company, but has written down the facts. But if they are beneficial, in fact, it is only encouraging to work ahead. Nor is it true that the Supervisory Board did not deal with the Mercator case. Again within the limits of their powers. I must say, we were also the first to be invited by the Court of Auditors to give our opinion. And we wrote it down and sent it to the Court of Auditors. Even as we look at these materials today, the National Assembly has certainly addressed them, nowhere in this Court of Auditors report is there any talk of criminal acts. But it is simply a matter of identifying some kind of risk or what some opinions say is a loss of income. The response report, which was given and followed by the Court of Auditors’ position, is also in the audit report in such a way as to make the response of the Slovenian Compensation Society adequate to what they claimed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have concluded the general debate between Members and Members. We are moving on to the debate on the decision and the amendments tabled to the decision to be taken on the basis of the 28 March amendment review. That way we'll have three amendments in the debate. First, I am putting forward the first amendment and amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Does anyone want to discuss with the first amendment? [[Nobody.]] Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Group of Ambassadors for a new 1st proposal for a decision. Does anyone want to discuss this here? Comrade Lakhovnik, you have the floor. Okay, you're quitting. And I am putting to the debate the amendments of the Really Group of Members for a new 1.b decision. Does anyone want to discuss this here? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much for your help, Comrade Bajc. The amendments and conclusions will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the conclusion of the 20th item of the agenda or no later than 22 hours and 30 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. POINT OF THE DAY - TO THE REPORT OF THE COMMISSION ON THE SUPERVISION OF THE PUBLIC FINANCIAL ON THE DEFINITIVE INJURY OF THE GOVERNMENTAL INJURY IN THE SALE OF THE CAPITAL PARTY OF THE CAD AND OF THE COURT IN THE ECONOMIC SOCIETY MERCATOR D. D. PROPOSALS OF CONCLUSIONS. I'd like to inform you that we have 4 hours and 25 minutes for this point. The report was submitted by the Commission for the supervision of public finances for consideration by the assembly. My friend Squeakle. Please, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u78	Mr. President! With regard to this item on the agenda, I would like to raise a procedural question related to the absence of government representatives. I must say, I am extremely surprised that at the previous point, despite the government's announcement of 45 minutes, the government did not appear at all in this hall. And I understand that in a few minutes we will be hearing the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So my question to you as Vice-President is, do we have any government representatives, who are these government representatives? And if they don't show up at the hall, I suggest we stop the meeting then. We call on the Government to respond and explain to the distinguished National Assembly, both in the report of the SOD Supervisory Board and in the report on Mercator's position. I think we deserve it as the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u79	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Pursuant to Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure, the Government is not a proposer and it is the decision of the Government whether or not it will be present. Personally, however, I agree with you that this indicates a lack of seriousness on the part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has also announced its time. As it is said, this is their right given by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I therefore give the floor to the President of the Commission, Mr Milan Petk, for an additional explanation. Here you go! Just take your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u80	I apologize to the vice president for my confusion. I was on the microphone outside. I didn't expect a decommissioning this fast. But I didn't want to talk about it, because I think it's necessary to operate more with some facts than with my thinking. With regard to the work of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, it should be pointed out that the Commission has been dealing with this issue of Mercator's injury for almost two years and that it was first acting in the composition led by Mr Swickl. It was not until July 2007 that I took over the Commission's leadership as well as in a different business structure. In fact, we are pleased that the work of the Commission has led us to consider today's report at the National Assembly, which has adopted conclusions with which perhaps some and I believe that not all of you will disagree. I think we've done a lot of work on the committee. We have dealt very, very carefully and in detail with all the documents available and behind these conclusions. In Mercator's case, we discussed an area which was also in some way disputed because the representatives of the Soda and Kad doubted and not only doubted. Therefore, they refused to participate in the meeting of the Commission and due to this direct confrontation with Director Kad or Director of the Court and President Kad was not possible. Later, through the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we found that their insistence on abstinence was unjustifiable, so that we should participate, in our opinion, in all these meetings, that it was their right. And that's also what the Legal and Legal Service found out. But if they decide not to take part in the meeting, they will not cooperate. So it's a classic story on a coalition that faces arguments, both coalitions and opposition. And in that case, there was no consensus. That I won't be too long. The report was delivered to you. The conclusions were dedicated to the National Assembly and more than how the Commission worked is important what we will say today at the hearing and how and what conclusions we will adopt at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Member Cyril Testen will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Nice greetings to the Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. The alleged damage to State property in the sale of Kad and Soda’s capital shares in Mercator’s company, d.d., was addressed in the 6th follow-up to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. They followed the opposition's wishes and without any professional background. The story began in 2005 on the basis of statements and newspaper articles and assuming Mercator's shares were sold without a takeover premium at a low price. In the New Slovenia Group, we disagreed with this assessment and we do not agree today and we do not support the proposals proposed by the Commission for adoption by the National Assembly. Our concerns are based on the following findings. We find it completely inappropriate to compare the sale of Lek, which is a company with its own development, of high-profit products in the pharmaceutical field with Mercator, which is a grocery trade. It is necessary to know that Lek has been sold to a demanding Western market that is also willing to pay a lot for profitable programmes. The expected profits in the farm are significantly higher. Therefore, the acquisition premiums are also relatively high. Mercator’s purchase, however, was mainly interested in managers and other domestic suppliers. In Novi Slovenija, we disagree with the Commission's opinion that Mercator's sale price is too low compared to Lek and that the takeover premium has not been reached. It is necessary to know that Lek was sold in 2002 and that the then SBI index was 2,900, and in 2005, when Mercator’s share was sold, 4,500 and that we believe that the takeover premium is already largely included. If Pivovarna Laško and Istrabenz were to buy so well, their shares would have to grow substantially in the coming periods, which has not happened. Even more, the prices of Pivovarna Laško and Istrabenza’s shares have fallen or, in some periods, have not grown as fast as the stock index. There is also information on the increase in Mercator stock prices, which grew slower than the SBI index during the post-sale period, which is also good evidence that the shares were not undervalued at the time of sale. In the New Slovenia Group we also support the sale of Mercator shares to domestic suppliers. Also for reasons which, in our case, as a trading company, differs greatly from Lek. We believe Mercator is a major exporter of Slovenian goods to the former Yugoslav markets. It is therefore important that it remained in Slovenian ownership. Otherwise, Slovenian goods would not be sold in Mercator's trades in the former Yugoslav markets, or at least not to such a large extent. It is necessary to know that Mercator is a major exporter and that a large part of his realization is carried out abroad. At this point, we believe that the transfer of Mercator ownership to foreign hands would have negative effects on Slovenian exports. Although all the arguments on the part of those who claim that, in the case of the sale of Mercator shares in companies of the Slovenian Indemnity Company and the Capital Company, it is not a matter of damage to state assets, the Commission insists on its position. Therefore, as a justification, I should point out some of the opinions of the institutions which, on a proposal from the Commission or on an official basis, have reviewed the operations of Mercator. The European Commission has found that, in the case of Mercator's shares, it is not a suspicion of hidden state aid, which has been confirmed by Mercator's share price and by Mercator's share prices. Mercator’s sale of State shares was also reviewed by the Securities Markets Agency and found no irregularities and did not implement any measure. The findings of the Supervisory Committees of the Slovenian Indemnity Company and the Capital Company, which conclude that sales have been made in accordance with legislation, are transparent and economical. However, the most important point for the Commission is the position of the Court of Auditors, which found that the acts on the basis of which the Slovenian Compensation Company and the Capital Society operate were incomplete, that the sales procedures were flawed and that they could be carried out more transparently. But they weren't illegal. The Court of Auditors also found that the Slovenian Indemnity Society and the Capital Society, in their response report and in part in the process, have eliminated the irregularities found. If the Court of Auditors finds that the sale of Mercator's shares was uneconomic and contrary to the law, it should, in accordance with the powers it has, act and propose appropriate solutions. It didn't do it because it obviously doesn't have any basis. However, in the case at hand, in the New Slovenia Group, we are most disturbed by the fact that the Court of Auditors, which, in our view, should be a purely professional institution, has in the past also succumbed to some pressure and decided, in our view, the least strange. I hope that in that case it is not so and that in the future the Court of Auditors will be the one who, regardless of the option in power, will carry out their task professionally and professionally. Control over the use of public funds is such an important and extensive function for the country that we cannot afford any deviation. As a result of all the proposals proposed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances in the New Slovenia Group, we will not be supported. However, we will support the conclusions proposed by the coalition and which, in our view, better reflect the actual situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u83	Thank you. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Member Marjan Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u84	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! We all know that the Capital Society and the Slovenian Compensation Society are independent legal entities organised in the form of a share company whose only shareholder is the Republic of Slovenia. Their management structure and relations with the founder are laid down in laws and statutes. The decision to sell securities is a business decision of the funds adopted by their management bodies. The supervision of the legality of operations in both funds shall be exercised by their supervisory authority. However, it is known that Mercator’s capital shares were also sold by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia and from September 2005 until February 2008 by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. It's been a long time. There's been a lot of manipulation. That's why I'm not going to go into the details at this point, but I'm just going to focus on the facts. Is it right to sell Mercator's share or not? Political withdrawal from the economy has long been forecast. From this point of view, it was right. Was that in our national interest? I'm sure it's more than Mercator bought by strangers. Judging by the words of Mr Mark Pogačnik, the sale from a financial point of view for the Court was good. He says that the Mercator purchases were transferred primarily to shares in Krka, Petrola, Žita, Luke Koper, which significantly increased the value added compared to staying in Mercator. Otherwise, our view is that the sale was not so bad. The sale of Pivovarni Laško and Istrabenzu, however, is intended to protect the Slovenian food industry and the Slovenian manufacturer. At least that's the point. Demonopolization was also expected. The guess as to whether we could make more money for the stock is still a guess. As regards the value of the sale, the Court of Auditors stated only that there was a risk that it had not been torn out as much as it could have been. However, the Court of Auditors could not determine what the highest price could be and what amount the State budget was for. On the other hand, the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission notes that the price was 38 000 tolars, that this price reflected the market value of Mercator’s shares on 30 August 2005. They also noted that the claim for a premium on the said price might have been justified if the buyer had obtained joint control of the company. However, there was no evidence of joint control at the time. Sales are supposed to be legal and the price is real and the procedure is properly carried out as in many cases to date. But as the Prime Minister says, it's supposed to turn out that it's better not to sell. Apparently, some expectations have not been met. However, we cannot support the conclusions proposed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We don't think there's any evidence of an illegal sale of shares. We believe that the conclusion of the direct contract between Kad and Istrabenz and Sod and Pivovarno Laško was legal since it was made in accordance with Article 80 of the Public Finance Act, which provides that the State may sell shares directly by concluding the contract if the shares are listed on the market. Given that Mercator’s shares have been traded on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange since February 1994, the sales were made legally. There is also, in some ways, no evidence or calculation of how much shares are to be sold and how much the state budget is to be damaged. The agreed contract price for Mercator shares was to be agreed at a level that exceeded the market price at a time when the stock exchange prices of the companies on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange already included premiums for the expected privatisation of state capital. As stated, the agreed contract price of Mercator at the time of sale was comparable to the market prices of comparable companies in other EU Member States. Especially given the return on shares. After all this we can only conclude that the contract price of Mercator’s share was a fair price. In particular, as a fair price, it was also confirmed in the recapitalisation of Mercator carried out in the second half of 2005. The legality of the sale is also reflected in the opinion of the European Commission and the fact that no action has been taken by the Securities Market Agency and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition. On the basis of the conclusions proposed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, we will therefore not support the proposed decisions of the Slovenian People's Party Group. But we think of the more meaningful amendments proposed by the coalition. That's why we're going to support you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik will present the position of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Once again a nice greeting to all present! The report on the treatment of alleged damage to State property in the sale of Kad and Sod’s capital shares in Mercator’s economic company d.d., prepared by the Public Finance Supervisory Commission for today’s plenary meeting, was based on the request of the LDS Chamber of Commerce for an extraordinary meeting of the Commission on 9 September 2005, which, in its request for an extraordinary meeting, was based on the suspicion that the sale of Mercator’s shares, d.d., was carried out in an inadequate, non-transparent and non-competitive manner and therefore caused injury to the State. The preparation of this report on alleged damage to State property or the functioning of the Commission for the supervision of public finances in this regard is characterised by the need for a good 27-month period and the functioning of the Commission took place in two parts and under the leadership of two presidents and a rather modified composition of the Commission. That the work of the Commission was accompanied by a number of procedural complications, the main objective of which was to prevent the problem from being addressed. That they are members of a coalition committee and representatives of the Court of Justice and that they have challenged the competence of the commission to deal with that issue. That the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, in its written opinion, rejected the views of the coalition members of the Commission and the representatives of the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice in respect of the competence or responsibilities of the Commission for the supervision of public finances. That the Court of Auditors revised the correctness and prudence of the operation of both the Court and Kad in the sale of Mercator’s shares, d.d., and forwarded four audit reports to the Commission. That audits of the Court of Auditors have been obstructed by auditors. In particular, due to the use of the Institute of Business Secrets also in the relationship between the Court and Kad, it provides documentation and numerous explanations. That, on the basis of the audits, the Court of Auditors has found a number of irregularities both in the conduct of the Court and the Court of Auditors and has both issued an opinion with reservations and requested responsive reports on corrective measures. The Court of Auditors concluded, inter alia, that Mercator’s chosen sale process was not carried out in a manner that ensured transparency of the procedure and reached the highest purchase, although it was one of the objectives of the business policy. That it is not possible to determine the possible amount of the difference between the possible price and the price achieved, because the procedure for determining interest in other potential buyers has not been carried out. Although the Court and Kad did not perform together, the available documentation shows that the individual activities were coordinated, price, content of the contract and more. But they didn't choose to do a concert to maximize the price, even though they did it several times. That the representatives of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors, after submitting the audit reports to the Court of Auditors, did not wish to participate in the work of the Commission for the supervision of the budget and other public finances and thus prevented the Commission from further clarifying the individual events. That the Management Board of the SOD has even declared itself competent to take decisions on the indiscretion of the Commission to deal with this issue and requires the President of the National Assembly to reconsider the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in the National Assembly and the powers of the Commission. That the Ministry of the Economy was not prepared to provide the Commission with documentation and explanations which had been transmitted to the European Commission. For all the reasons mentioned in the Group of Members, we really support the Commission's report on budgetary control and other public finances. Including the proposed conclusions. We reject the proposed amendments to the coalition, the only intention of which is to erase the Commission's conclusions on budgetary control and other public finances, based in particular on the conclusions of the Auditor-General. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u87	Thank you very much. My colleague, Happy Friend, will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today is true that it is April 1st and the day of the madmen, the day of the liars - pardon - that much is permitted. But when we listen to these debates, it's probably quite a joke. It is difficult to determine who in the coalition is now speaking in a coordinated manner and who, according to any minister and, of course, the demands of a minister. Mr. Testen says it's all "okay." when Mercator was sold. Mr. Janša, there are many things wrong. Let's make one deal and come up with an appropriate position that will be the same. And we'll believe you. Decisions which are, in fact, considered to be the only relevant conclusions today need to be supported. These three conclusions express a perfectly normal content. It is found that there is a reasonable reason for suspecting State property damage in the sale of Kad and Soda’s capital shares and, of course, concerning Mercator, and that there is a high likelihood that the Court did not recover the largest purchase for Mercator. The third decision speaks of this, and if you are honest, you will also confirm it. And you won't impose again. This is probably the only parent working body or commission in which the opposition has most of its own, by voting on its conclusions, which will try to clean up the entire mess of your wages again. The third conclusion speaks perfectly normal. It shall be entrusted to members of the Kad Assembly appointed by the Government and the Kad Supervisory Board to determine the liability of the persons involved in the sale of State property and to take action in accordance with the findings. What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? Is that a finding? If you claim that everything was fine, then these three conclusions are nothing more than confirmation of what you want, of course, in other words and praise. There are also a lot of complaints about this matter that are pending and that are being followed by means of public information. Let me talk to you about just one comment, which, of course, could be seen in the media on television when customers tell the current director Jankovic: "I'm sorry, we fucked you a little bit." This was actually said, and the current mayor of Ljubljana also said this. The fact is that there have been in fact large pigs in this area and that you want to put some of them under the rug. I understand that. I also understand that some have probably provided themselves with the possibility of having a quality either run this electoral campaign that is coming, or to elevate their accounts in some way. All this is possible. I do not fully believe in Mr Testen's coincidence and innocence when he says, "Yes, it would be nice if this company remained Slovenian." Why didn't you say that, ladies and gentlemen, when it came to the General Sailing talk? The only Slovenian shipowner you have put in the hands of a foreigner for a price of zero euros. He raised fifty million in the next fourteen days, when the overall traffic situation rose by 300%, perhaps slightly less. And he sold the surface of two old ships that are holed up for more than two new ones standing on the market today. But the Court doesn't respond to that, the Court doesn't want to make contracts. It does not want to hear about sales from other authorities dealing with the transparency of sales because it is likely to have its back covered as it does in the Mercator case. I hope, heartily, that the Prime Minister will be so persistent, so honest and that he will tell the truth that he will break down that sentence: "In Mercator, it really wasn't all the way it was supposed to be." And to tell the Slovenian public a little bit more about what he knows. That's what I hope for. And to dispel these doubts, which are now among you in the coalition, when one claims that everything was so perfect, and the other again that it smells so much. I would also like the judiciary - of course it is not possible to influence this because this is an independent branch of power - to deal more intensively with this case and to finally address this matter in the epilogue before us. It can't just bear this treatment. It takes five minutes or ten minutes and it's over and they're two months apart again. Who do you leave this to, or are you waiting for it to be October first? Maybe that's what's waiting. Or perhaps someone is afraid of these results, the results that will also come with legal judgements. And I just want to know why these workers and the workers were injured also because they were deprived of the right to get what was theirs, what was in front of them, what was taken from them by someone who got rich and who today has accounts that he knows what the first number is. How much he didn't want in the back, but he's already forgotten. In the Slovenian National Party, we support these three conclusions - as has already been said - and we will be happy to continue to do so. We ask the SOD, of course it would be best for the director to step down, because we know that as much manure as he has on his head today does not wash a single tank of water. It would be good if he did not wait for the law enforcement authorities who were already breathing behind his collar, as a former police officer or police director once said, and that he himself would give a statement of resignation and tell him who was forcing him to sign what he was. It is incomprehensible that there were signatures in the General Navigation right in the Ministry's office. And if we stick to all our trenches and speak only what you are asked to say, ladies and gentlemen, what are allowed to speak to you by the leaders of the parliamentary groups who are the only ones who are called and think they know everything in this world. I believe that Mr Sok is well acquainted with veterinary medicine and knows the diseases of cows, horses and others. But I don't believe he can afford or take the right to only if I'm allowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u89	My friend Lucky Friend, you've gone too far now. Comrade Srečko Friend, in the context of the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you must not comment on other groups of Members. You know that as well as I do. Please hold and present your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman. I just wanted to say that, in fact, he takes many times the right to say what others are allowed to say. In short, we support these three conclusions in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties. We hope that it will be such a fair and judgmental position that it will withdraw its proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Comrade Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Embassy Group Lipa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. Maybe I'll start a little unusual. Mercator's sale was transparent. The sale of Paloma will be transparent when it withdraws from NSI. The sale of the General Navigation was immediately clear that there was no doubt. The sale of some other shares of state property in this country is clearer than any government in this National Assembly could have been a tactic. But it's a fact. Today is April 1st. We can all have a little fun. At one point, I looked like the Prime Minister talking to this National Assembly. But, I'm sorry, it was a joke. As regards the audit report on the sale of Mercator shares, the members of the Commission belonging to the coalition of this Government considered that the report did not detect any damage to state property. You know, my neighbor-- and this isn't April 1st, but we're already hanging out in April 2nd--slowly working in this Mercator and she said, while he was state, we had orders, we had shelves full, we had wages. Ever since this government sold this same Mercator, it hasn't been ordered, there's not full shelves and there's been a drop in sales in the same Mercator. A Mercator with at least 55% of our country. And, however we turn it, no matter what customer we come from, it was "the best neighbor." The fact is, Mercator's sale was premature. It was the wish and purpose of this government coalition, the president of this government. Maybe even under the pressure of some who in this government "only cooperate". You could also compare the story with Paloma's company at the Sweet Summit, when you were assigned to one or more companies, say Paloma, you "furnished" this company to the end. A great savior has arrived today within the framework of the government to resolve this story within the SDS. You're the one who screwed up. But the SDS will solve it. It's very easy to solve something that's "zafuran" to the end. You add a crumb here, and it's already bread for Nutella. But it's not a solution for people who work there. And the same story seems to me to have happened in the Marcator case. Taken away from someone who ran the company for the maximum good who employed so many and so many people, people who had wages, 13th salary, regression, and knew why they were working in this country. You said no, we'll sell. We'll sell for one share that was interesting to someone to buy. But today these people don't get 13 wages anymore, regression. But they're sold. And if this is the way to sell off state property owned by this country, despite the fact that, when opposition Members, for example, Members of the Lip Group, we send questions to the Minister of Finance and answer us. The government is not a direct owner. He's an indirect owner over the SOD and Kada. Please! What about the Court and Kad? Are they state or not? So the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, citizens of this country, owners of state property, despite denying this, is our goal to make our property, which is also mine, noble. He's doing something more than himself. It pleases the people who work in it. And in Mercator, you made a story that didn't go that way. It must be said that in the Lipa Group we will support the amendments of the Commission. However, we will not support all those, and if you read them well and think about their content not only because you are members of the government coalition, and you will say that I must support these amendments, you will see that the amendments, as proposed by the coalition parties to this report, are not acceptable. They are not pursuing that fundamental objective, which is to meet the needs of the people in this country. Follow some of your targets. You're excusing one of your misdemeanors. Errors occur in this country or anywhere in the world. But don't apologize to them on the principle of amendments, as you suggested, because these amendments can be read by other people who are not members of this high assembly. And when they read them, they'll start laughing, and with what this government coalition convinces us that Mercator's sale was justified because they're laughing. I therefore suggest that you simply withdraw these amendments in advance. You don't support them, either, because they're very naive. That even if you look into your head, as much as you have this option, you will see that you would not support them if you were not a member of the government. Someone just wrote them to you. You just have to stick to them after a string. That's not right. You are not bound to any explanations, to any instructions. But that's how you do it anyway. You don't work for people. It's the same in Paloma's other state company. It's gonna happen the same way. You don't work for people. This is your eternal mistake. I hope you get a reading in a few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u93	Thank you. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Member Rudi Veršnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we reject all the findings and conclusions of the opposition majority in the Commission of the National Council for the Control of Public Finances regarding the presumption of State property damage in the sale of Kad and the Court's capital shares in Mercator's company. We reject the assumption because it is not based on credible or professional evidence. The assumption is based on an attempt by the opposition to show the multiple repetitive information on this sale as real. For more than two years, the individual opposition members of the political economy have been trying to convince the Slovenian public by repeating their untruths that Slovenian taxpayers have been injured in the sale of state shares. The opposite, professional opinions of independent economists, as well as the findings of the competent authority of the European Commission, are peacefully overlooked in this seduction. In support of their accusations, however, they misinterpret the Court's audit opinion. Mercator's shares were sold to Istrabenza and the Court of Beerware Laško with the conclusion of a direct contract. At the time of this sale, two unfounded allegations appeared in the media and among the opposition members mentioned. The first is that an agreed selling price for Mercator shares of 38 thousand tolls is too low. And secondly, that the contractual option of repayment of shares on credit would be favourable to the buyer. I will continue to make these two groundless statements and, on their basis, I will try, on the basis of the unfounded suspicion of State property damage, to reject as clearly as possible the facts which others have already communicated to the public. First of all, he strongly publicly rejected these findings on 27 September 2005 in the Finance Journal entitled "Mercator's sale after a different calculation" by a prominent Slovenian financier, economist Dr. Peter Antunović, risk manager of one of New York's investment funds. Financier Antunović justified the price of 38 000 tolars for Mercator's share as appropriate or fair with four factors or otherwise professional opinions. Mr Antunović first rejected the observation that the Mercator share price achieved should include an additional premium, as agreed in 2002, at the time of Lek's acquisition by Novartis. He rejected it because he did not take into account the fact that the Slovenian stock exchange index was 4500 on May 2002 at the time of the appearance of rumors about the takeover of Lek 2900 points and when Mercator shares were sold. Mr Antunović estimated that by the end of August 2005, the acquisition premiums had already been added to the stock exchange index or the prices of the largest companies. Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško did not take over Mercator by purchasing Mercator shares in total 29%, as did Novartis by purchasing Lek shares from Kad and Sod. For another proof that the sales price for Mercator’s share was obtained, Dr. Antunović indicated the most important financial indicator. It's P/E, Price/earnings. This is the ratio between the price of the share and the profit for the share. This indicator was then 18 for Mercator and was higher than the comparable trading companies of French Carrefour, which had the same indicator, 17, the German Metro at the same time 16, the British Tesco 17. On the basis of a comparison of this indicator, it could be concluded that foreign buyers, or otherwise I will say, well-informed other Mercator buyers would not be willing to offer a higher price even though Kad and the Court would sell Mercator shares through public bidding. As a third likely factor that other well-informed shareholders would not be willing to offer a higher price, Dr. Antunović stated at that time the already published need for the recapitalisation of Mercator. At a time when companies are recapitalising, stock prices are usually falling. Therefore, any other buyers in the public tender would also not be willing to offer a higher price for Mercator's share for this reason. This recapitalisation of Mercator was actually made following the sale of Kad and the Court of Justice. It was completed by the beginning of 2006. The fact is that Mercator's previous administration was not prepared to buy a large share of the shares offered to Mercator at a price of 38 000 tolls, although in 2004 it was intended to acquire 25% of Mercator's capital, but at a lower price. According to the theory of asymmetric information, management is not prepared in recapitalisation to buy shares in case they are overestimated. He also pointed to this fact in his article, Dr. Antunović. The fourth reason why the price of 38 000 tolls for the share was either fair or fair was stated by Dr. Antunović that the suspected injury of taxpayers was not confirmed by investors on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange. For if Pivovarna Laško and Istrabenz were to make so much money in this purchase, this should be known at the course of their shares. Or, in other words, if the sale of Mercator shares by Kad and Sod were to be really lost by Slovenian taxpayers, the shareholders of Laško and Istrabenz should gain at least a little. But it happened the other way around. Within a month of the first publication of the sale of shares by Kad and the Court of Justice, the shares of Laško and Istrabenz even lost their market value. On the basis of the professional facts just presented, Dr Antunović concluded his article with a message. Apparently, the shareholders of Istrabenz and Lashko agree with my thesis that the sale price was set correctly. Dr. Antunović also rejected the position on the second evidence of Mercator's sale. This is that the contractually agreed possibility of repayment of shares on credit is favourable to the buyer of Istrabenz and Pivovarno Laško and, on the contrary, unfavourable to the Court of Justice and Kad. In the contract with Istrabenz and Pivovarno Laško, Kad and the Court agreed on the possibility of payment of shares on credit. They agreed on a loan payment by Eurobor, which was increased by 70 basis points. At the same time, they also retained the receipt of dividends from unpaid shares until the purchase was paid. Dr. Antunović compared this short-term sale with other such sales on world markets, and he saw nothing controversial about it based on the theory of financial risk. Thus, by rejecting this second observation, it confirmed the appropriateness of the sales price achieved, 38,000 tolls for Mercator's share. The buyers soon paid the purchase early and gave up the possibility of paying off the loan, so the opposition no longer mentions these indications. Despite all these professional facts, opposition political economists continue to argue the opposite. Regrettably, for their assumptions about the low price of Mercator’s shares or their expressed suspicion of taxpayers’ injury, they do not provide convincing evidence or professional evidence. The comparison of the market or stock market price in 2005 and 2007 cannot be considered among the professional facts. On the contrary, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group considers that Mercator's shares, Kad, were sold at a fair price. This is the price agreed by a well-informed and willing and independent and unequal buyer and seller in accordance with the relevant international standards for value assessment and accounting standards. The other relevant evaluator of the possible dispute over the sale of Mercator shares, Kad and the Court of Justice to the two companies Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško was the European Commission. The European Commission has also completely rejected the opposition's allegations, or the Commission's allegations, of the National Assembly's monitoring of public finances and some media representatives, who have been very helpful in doing so. As is well known, the journalist of the newspaper Finance filed a complaint with the European Commission or its Directorate-General for Competition on 28 September 2005 claiming that the sale of Mercator shares by the Court of Justice of Pivovarni Laško and Kad Istrabenzu did not reach a fair price and that the terms of the financing of this sale on credit were not satisfactory. The complaint was based on the assumption that the Court and Kad, through the said sale of the shares, would allow Lashko Pivovar and Istrabenz to obtain hidden State aid. After one year, more precisely on 10 October 2006, that Directorate of the European Commission completed the investigation and rejected the complaint as unfounded. He rejected both the height indications and the apparent conditions for the possible sale of shares on credit. The Directorate General found that it was not possible to claim that State aid had been granted to the buyers. This finding was based on the fact that Mercator’s shares had previously been evaluated by an authorised value assessor in accordance with an internationally recognised business value assessment methodology and that the sales price reached was agreed at market value level. The Directorate also concluded that the acquisition premium did not require a condition, since the buyer with a total of 29 % of Mercator’s share could not be controlled by Mercator. The directorate also examined the vote of both buyers on the Mercator Supervisory Committee and found that their vote or management was not harmonised. The third relevant factor for the possible determination of the contested sale of Mercator shares could be, in addition to the European Commission or even firstly, the Securities Markets Agency and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection of competition. None of these institutions reported any suspicion of coordination between buyers' activities or the hidden acquisition of Mercator or ownership control by Laško and Istrabenz. Given that the suspicion of non-compliance with the rules has not been established by the competent domestic and European institutions, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group rightly concludes that the sale of Kad and the Court's shares was consistent with the Slovenian and European legal order. The opposition majority in the Commission of the National Public Finance Supervisory Chamber is of the opinion that the sale of Mercator shares would have resulted in damage to state assets in the management of KAD and SOD based on the wrong interpretation of the non-standard audit opinion of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors carried out two types of audits in Kad and the Court. Revision of the correctness and review of Mercator's sales procedures. The Court of Auditors shall review the regularity of the audit, which shall give its audit opinion with reservation in accordance with the rules. In view of the fact that certain procedures for the preparation of executions and sales were not carried out in accordance with the internal rules or that the internal rules were not fully established as a basis for the uniform decision of the Court and Kad authorities in the procedures for the preparation and implementation of the sale of capital shares. The Court of Auditors has already confirmed in its post-revision report that the Court and Kad have taken into account all its audit reports for future preparation and for future monitoring of the implementation of capital share sales procedures. The Court of Auditors considered the implementation of corrective measures to be satisfactory. On the basis of these facts, the Slovenian Democratic Party Group stresses that the sale of Mercator shares between the seller Kad and the buyer of Istrabenz and the seller of the Court and buyers of Pivovarno Laško by the conclusion of a direct contract, I stress - direct contracts, was made lawfully, as it was carried out in accordance with Article 80f of the current Public Finance Act. This Article provides that a State or municipalities may sell shares directly with the conclusion of a contract if the shares are listed in the Exchange. Mercator’s shares have been traded on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange since February 1994 and the sale was made lawfully. In the second part of the audit, the audit of the profitability of the execution of the sales procedures, the Court of Auditors expressed a non-standard audit opinion, which is the view that there is a risk that a maximum purchase was not reached in the course of the sale, the conclusion of the direct contract. In the context of this opinion, the Court of Auditors based on two assumptions that Kad and the Court did not for the first time carry out activities to verify other potential investors and, secondly, did not check the possibilities of joint sales. On what professional basis did the Court of Auditors assume that the public gathering of Kad and the Court could not provide an explanation. Relevant international value assessment standards, i.e. the achievement of a fair or market price, do not link to any specific sales methodology such as: public sales, auctions, private contracts. Nor did the Court of Auditors explain its second assumption that the Court and the Court of Justice should sell to two different buyers as a joint sale, it rejected this assumption, as I had previously warned the European Commission, nor did the Securities Market Agency and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia confirm it. However, in expressing its opinion on the existence of a risk, the Court of Auditors considers that a sufficiently high price has not been reached and that it has not assessed economic indicators and factors affecting the determination of fair or market price. As a result of these facts, the Court of Auditors has also failed to establish or substantiate the suspicion or suspicion of damage to State property as it misinterprets in its report or proposals for decisions by the Commission of the National Assembly for the Control of Public Finance. If the Court of Auditors had in fact established the suspicion of State property damage in the audit procedure or in the audit report provided relevant evidence, it would only have been due under Article 30 of the applicable Law on the Court of Auditors to file a complaint with the competent State authorities against the persons responsible or the Kad and the Court of Justice. The Court of Auditors has so far not reported the complaint. For these reasons, we consider the proposal for a first decision to this item of the agenda to be unfounded in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. Moreover, the proposal expresses, in the opinion of the parliamentary group, the attempt to examine the unlawful political impact of the legislative branch of the Authority on the work of the Court of Auditors and the work of the Supreme Public Prosecutor’s Office, since those institutions are independent and independent and should not act as a recommendation of the legislative branch of government in dealing with individual matters. For the same reasons, in the view of the Group of Members, there is also no basis for the Commission's proposals for a second and third decisions on this item on the agenda. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party from those proposals propose, together with Members of other coalition parties to this item on the agenda, a counterdecision confirming that the sales price for Mercator’s share was fair and the sale of Mercator shares was lawful. At the end of the presentation of the opinion of the Group of Members, I would like to stress once again that the prices of shares at the end of August 2005 cannot be compared for a number of economic reasons with the prices of shares in 2007. I would like to point out that, with the information so far known, Kad and the Court have effectively paid off the 2005 Mercator stock sale in 2006 and 2007, in the new financial investments in line with the overall trends in the value of other investments in the domestic capital market. In 2007, the investor received unexpected, unusually high capital gains from the stock exchange. Some actually realized them, others recorded them either as a book or as a temporary measure. In 2007, the prices of the leading domestic companies increased by 80% in the wildest growth. But this year they've already dropped 20%. This is a well-known fact that, once again, these political economists among members of the opposition would point to a number of their unfounded deceptions and all other fellow Members of Parliament and Members to the facts that need to be taken into account for the credible treatment of the effects of Mercator's sales. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will not support the draft conclusions, but we will support the conclusions of the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u95	Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. Milan M. Cvikl will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u96	Good afternoon! Today, it is not about preventing Members from each other. Today it is a matter of preventing the Slovenian public, whether in social society we have done the Mercator sales business in a transparent, democratic way. And the Group of Social Democrats considers that this was not in accordance with the interests of society, was not in line with the interests of taxpayers, was done in a non-transparent and, of course, harmful manner. This morning we discussed the operation of the Soda. There are many controversial transactions, but there is no doubt that the mother of all affairs in this mandate is selling Mercator. Janez Janša's meeting with some potential buyers and a former secretary of state at his office. Where it has been agreed that on 31 August, the Mercator Assembly shall establish a Supervisory Board in accordance with the will of two new buyers. Mercator, Mercury, Slovenian steel industry, Iskraemeco, Telekom, Nova Kredittna banka Maribor, and if there was no referendum where two thirds said that they did not support such policies, the Insurance Company Triglav would also be sold. What happens when such transactions are carried out? It happens that Slovenia is losing jobs, that we have millions of euros in property damage, that there is no more market freedom and that there is no control over excessive wealth. This, last but not least, affects a significant change or Slovenia can be applied as a destination where the rules of the transparent market are respected, whether it is a destination of course, it is a country where business needs to be negotiated with the Prime Minister or with a so-called pre-government commission. There's only one number about over-riching. If Mr Jankovic had his salary for 2004 before leaving his post, together with the awards, which was about 20 to 25 wages of the trade, he is today, for a number of reasons, also because he is preparing for a variety of acquisitions, paying the chief of management of the same company 55 wages of the trade, not to mention salaries in other companies. Is it logical or is it still social, or is it even more meaningful for the development of a society in which the conflict between capital and work is increasing? Of course, we claim that the cause of the sale and the great gift that John Janš gave to the buyers caused unacceptable social conditions for us. This is why it is a matter of damage to state property, and it is therefore a serious problem that strategic owners from Janez Janša received a gift of EUR 233 million. Do you know how many clean shovels that is?Oh, my God! And of course, we pay this gift to Slovenian taxpayers, so that we will have to give more money to the Court, so that we will lose this return in an opportunistic manner. And today, the Soda's assets would be increased by EUR 233 million, or a premium would be realised at the time of sale, as was the case with all major sales. At the time of NLB’s sale, this premium was three times the book value, 2.8 times the value plus some other cases, when Pivovarna Union sold 70%, Lek 80 and so on. As a result, when we were informed of these events in September 2005, the proposers requested a meeting of the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. We requested it because it is an inadequate sale, untransparent, harmful to the country and this loss is today up to EUR 233 million. What happened on the committee? On the Commission, there has been a great deal of denial, even today you are speaking to Members and Members of Parliament about it. However, we argue that Mercator's sale was made without the collection of tenders, that therefore the Court, which should respect the Law on Public Finance and its statutes, and the same applies to Kad, because it is a shareholder company, should collect offers, but the whole deal was made between two buyers. To which two buyers - those who met with the Prime Minister on 12 August 2005. Of course, I claim that the Prime Minister of the Government, who met with one of the buyers and the other from the buyers, wanted to make in three persons of Slovenian Berlusconi - a great sale, a gift to both buyers who were supposed to play by his notes. We know that then the takeover of Del happened, and we know what happened later in Del. When one of the buyers discovered that he was losing in Del, he also publicly demonstrated his disobedience and since then we have been fighting the tycoons. The takeover was not paid, Mercator was sold at a price. Because of these things, we started the work of the commission. The Commission has done its work in two main segments, one before the Court of Auditors' report and the other after the Court of Auditors' report, because we have applied the Court of Auditors' Law and called on the Court of Auditors to revise this business as the Supreme Audit Institution and we have received the Court's report. For reasons unknown to us, there were very many procedural complications at the beginning of the work of the commission in September, October 2005. We know that the coalition never meant seriously with the work of this Commission for the supervision of public finances, so at the beginning of the term of office it established a ratio of 3:3, and then the famous thing happened that the coalition obstructed the work of the Commission, the coalition went away several times, even the leader of the largest parliamentary group from the committee itself. We will not talk about other matters from the fact that Mr President of the National Assembly defended, be careful, Mr President of the National Assembly has told Mr Pogačnik, who has been hoping to speak falsely here today on behalf of the proposer, that he does not need to come to the National Assembly and to Mr Podpečan and Mr Toplac, and I do not know who else he apologized for having invited them to the National Assembly until the Legislative and Legal Service has made it clear that the balance sheets of the Court and Kato are an integral part of the public finances and that the gentlemen must come to the National Assembly if they want it to be their business. And look what's going on today. There's no government. The government doesn't hope to join the National Assembly. And why not? In view of this report by the Court of Auditors. The government hid under business secrecy and the published report on the website is as dark as this picture shows. The Court of Auditors, because both the Court and Kad had determined that the contract initiated by John Janša was a business secret, had to demonstrate its report to the Court of Auditors and that we received the Court's undeclared report. Because the meeting is open to the public about this, I can't say that someone won't let me get locked up. However, it is clear in the Court of Auditors’ report that, on the basis of the findings that the Court and Kad acted imprudently, that they did not examine the interests of other buyers and that there is a risk that the maximum price was not lifted. This is a very serious warning from the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors, as the Supreme Audit Institution, confirms what the members of the opposition have warned members of the coalition that we as the Commission for the supervision of public finances cannot do so and have prevented members of the coalition from doing so by obstructing the work. According to the Court of Auditors' report, we continued with the work of the Commission and found out that we were familiar with the report. The report made it clear, even if you do not read what is darkened for the public, that Kad and the Court agreed prices to harmonise the content of the contracts, that it was agreed before 31 August that someone would sit in Mercator's supervisory board and this was agreed at a meeting with the President of the Government. We have found that there is damage, we have found that they have circumvented all internal controls in the Court and Kad, that the Kad control council, in which some important Slovenians are either former politicians or economists had to carry out the matter in the same afternoon. Today, we are reading an interview with Mrs. Andrijana Starina Kosem these days. I remember when she came to the commission and she explained to us, "Because we don't believe in Mercator, because we believe that Hofer and Lidl have gone too far to the Slovenian trading market, we decided to sell Mercator." Her embarrassment was very great at the time. And, of course, I appreciate its frankness that it is ready and willing to speak to the Commission of the National Assembly, the Commission of Inquiry of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the alleged damage to state property. However, Mr President, this Commission will obviously not be invited to this meeting. It is clear that even though the coalition claims, this sale was good, the embarrassment is great. The embarrassment is so great that, in the last year of his term of office, the Prime Minister decided to divest himself with ashes. Look, the president of the government said in his interview, "Sales of Mercator was a mistake." Please don't continue the story that it was a good story. This sale was a mistake, and the Prime Minister himself admits it. I would like to expect the Commission of Inquiry to now call on the President of the Government to establish political responsibility and that the Supreme Public Prosecutor, on the basis of the same methods used in the "Clean shovel" affair, would determine the suspicion of damages or the award of a gift of EUR 233 million. You can't say for three years that it's all right, then shut down a few directors for three hours and start some fight against the tycoons. The President of the Government acknowledged that this was a mistake, Mrs Andrijana Starina Kosem said that in this way the tycoons are born in silence of social passwords. What else is a special problem? A particular problem is that the President of the Government, through Andre Visiak, the Minister of Economy, claimed to the European Commission for one year that there was no cooperation. Look, the Court of Auditors' report confirms that there was cooperation. The President of the Government, who is today the President of the Council of the European Union, lied to the European Commission for a year through Andrei Visiak and the Office for the Protection of Competition. The European Commission said something like this: "On the basis of statements, information" and so on, "there was no cooperation given to us by the Slovenian side." But, you know, there are serious technopaths on the European Commission. And if the Minister of Economy writes it, they just take it as a witness statement. A year later, the Prime Minister admits that Mercator's sale was a mistake. And in the end, the conclusions. On the Commission, we have proposed, as opposition Members, three decisions that we confirm and we will vote on, and we will vote against the amendments tabled because the Court of Auditors finds that the suspicion of damage to state property is justified. Whether this is now a million euros, 50 million euros or 233 million euros, it is irrelevant. Be careful if the State Attorney's Office, together with the police, makes an action for a gift worth some tens of thousands of euros, I wonder if we have double criteria in Slovenia. The suspicion of damage to state property has been substantiated and this decision will be confirmed. The second conclusion is that the Court did not recover the highest purchase and that the Government must therefore determine the responsibility of the persons and act. This decision is in some way consistent with the parliamentary legal order, but unfortunately we have the Government, which, with the help of the coalition in this Parliament, has formed a commission of inquiry to protect the name and reputation of Janez Janša, because he does not want to act against those responsible. People sitting in the supervisory board are responding materially and indemnity according to the ZGD. Therefore, at least, it would be necessary for the fact that the Court did not recover the highest purchase because when it did not recover the highest purchase, the Government replaced the Supervisory Board, replaced the Management Board and, of course, the Director. It's open to who's gonna be responsible for the mistake. Well, I'm guessing the ruling coalition will be responsible for the mistake. In the upcoming elections, you'll get your grade for this mistake. What this assessment will be, depends on what Slovenian citizens and citizens can draw from today's debate. However, it is clear that there has been damage, that the law on public finances has not been respected in its provisions and that it is the responsibility of the Prime Minister of the Government, who held a famous meeting on 12 August 2005. And in Slovenia, changes are needed. Amendments in which democratic rules will be respected by transparent means of selling state-owned assets and by searching through public demand for more bidders and in a competitive fight, if there is a need to sell shares, but not by one meeting, due to the attempt to convert Slovenia into a large, EUR 233 million gift to individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Member Milan Petek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. After all the words already said, it is difficult to add anything new, but it is better to repeat once, twice, than to pass through the ears, which in this Chamber some people do not want to hear what the opposition Members are saying. Today we are discussing the sale of Kad and Sod's share in the important Slovenian company Mercator, and we are therefore considering, in the opinion of many, an affair that is the affair of all affairs, or as the mother of all affairs is called in the human language. A story that can be compared to another affair is an affair involving the sale of weapons. Also never explored and interestingly involved are the same actors, the same names. And to make things even more fastic today, we're doing this without the government. So this government has simply decided to deny this Parliament. This Parliament is not a body that should be taken into account in its work and its work disturbed. It does not even come to Parliament to at least listen and then perhaps just say what they think about this matter and for me and many of us, it is also in recognition of the fact that they have a bad conscience and that it is difficult to avoid admitting the guilt that they are likely to be able to prove in this way. This abstinence of the Government was, in my opinion, also unacceptable in the previous point, the complete denial of democracy, which is to rule in this country and, of course, in this democracy, the role of Parliament, which should decide on important matters, is important. And when the government acted like this, it is not surprising to the Prime Minister personally that we had a similar situation with the representatives of Kad and Sod on the committee that dealt with this behaviour. The two key people of both institutions did not attend the meetings either. They decided, obviously, because they have a dismay with their political friends because they have a dismay with the actors who have ordered them to carry out this sales process, a feeling that nothing can happen to them, and so they were not at the meeting of the Commission, and so they are not today. Let me also illustrate this by writing a letter to the President of the Commission because of such a relationship. In my letter to the President of the Government, I have asked or asked him to ensure that both representatives, both Kada and Soda, Mr Toplak and Mr Pogačnik, will come to the meeting at least because they are obliged to participate in the meeting, where we are addressing the Court of Auditors' audit report, and in this way they may reject the findings in this report. There was no response to this letter either, no reaction. On the contrary, full underestimation, including the Commission for the supervision of public finances, the highest parliamentary body for the control of public finances management. And this government, headed by President Janša, obviously wants to devalue such a Parliament, obviously wants to devalue the role of the Court of Auditors, now in two cases, in today's and in the event of the responsibility of Minister Podobnik. To evaluate the role of working bodies, commissions, may not, after all, need not and will no longer need Members. For the next phase and the next stage of this democracy, according to the understanding of the ruling or the President of the Government, is clearly a dictatorship. But there are no Members and there is no such thing. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we decide on this matter on the basis of the report of the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, the Court of Auditors' audit report on the sale of Mercator by Kada and the Court. And we find that there has been indisputable damage to state property. And the main actor in this story is selling an important state stake in a very important company, so the sales history under the table is exactly the case of the Prime Minister, Mr Janez Janša, who, at the meeting at the government premises, apparently gave a green light to Istrabenz and Pivovarni Laško in exchange for the government's political influence on the newspaper Work, sells a share in Mercator. The then State Secretary, Adrian Starina Kosem, who also participated in this well-known famous meeting, said that she had been told that after Pivovarna Laško had acquired a significant share of capital in the Delo newspaper, the authorities would have a greater impact on the appointment of the Labour Supervisory Board and thus editorial policy. These are references from the letter Adriana Starina Kosem and this has also happened. This is how the actions show, and so do the words of Mr Stojan Zdolska, who is known for which circle he belongs, and who is aware of how Mr Janez Janša set up the President of the Del administration and editor of Del at that time. Those are his words. Of course, we cannot go past the fact that Mr Janez Janša, when he approved such a sale, damaged state property because he also sold this property without an appropriate takeover premium. As a result, pensions or through Kad and the state budget through the Sod, the tasks and obligations of both of us are already damaged after the comparable premium of Lek for at least 29 billion of the tolars at that time, which is now 120 million euros, or perhaps even more, if the purchase was used for early purchases of bonds. It is known to the public that Mr Prime Minister later, as we understand it, regretted the sale of Mercator. He regretted it when he said it was a mistake. We believe that this regret is expressed because it has lost a significant political impact on Del's editorial policy. Now this same prime minister is fighting the windmills in the wind, chasing the tycoons that he himself created in this mandate, or creating them. We can see from this duality that Mercator's sale was not actually a mistake, but it is true that circumstances have changed and this has led to a mistake. Apparently, it's a change of heart based on the situation. The issue of the concentration of the food trade industry caused by such decisions is also raised in relation to this sale. If we follow the Government's logic of determining the causes of inflation, then the Prime Minister himself has caused inflation by this concentration. In 2005, we warned the LDS that it was not good for the supplier to buy the trader. As a result, we know that the trader is in a subordinate position because it is difficult to discuss delivery prices because of the relationship with the owner and at the same time the supplier. As a result, we all know and feel high inflation, and even the coalition stressed the impact and impact of encouraging food or these products on inflation. In its report, the Court of Auditors well illustrated the case of an agreed economy, since Kad and the Court chose the direct sales method by contract, and failed to verify the possible interest of other potential buyers in purchasing this share, according to their domestic statements what they would check, since everything was already agreed on, by which price and by whom, and in fact, Kad and the Court did not even want to look for other buyers. The time that this was done, the speed, the way it was done, shows that we are not particularly wrong here. And since there has been no public sale by searching for tenderers and therefore the best or highest price has not been found and it is not possible to determine what damage to state property is, this is also noted by the Court of Auditors in its report and this is the basis for today's debate and we want to get to that point if we want to objectiveise the situation created by this. We can also talk about the fact that the government, through such a way of selling, has actually prevented the labor-management buyout that was being prepared at the time, and this also leads to a coalition thesis, which has been advocated for a long time, in order to otherwise sell Mercator's share to foreigners, so dominoes fall one after the other, and the coalition does not want to understand and does not want to hear in particular what hurts and which is probably difficult for most people to admit and hard to hear. Those who worked or participated in the work of the Commission for the supervision of public finances know the difficulty of the Court of Auditors in obtaining information on the difficulty of obtaining documentation for the treatment, handling the business for which it has the legal and constitutional right and the obligation to review the business, here it was hidden, here I would say, looking for all possible excuses, spoke and excused for inappropriateness or business secrecy in the case of both companies, and therefore this path to finding these answers was even longer. With regard to the definition of the proposed decisions of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, let us make it clear that we will support all conclusions in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The first decision, which notes that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting State property damage in the sale of Kad and Sod’s capital shares in Mercator, provides support and expects law enforcement authorities to focus on the sale on the basis of the Court’s audit reports and to determine whether there is a suspicion of a criminal offence and to proceed in accordance with their competences. Therefore, this objective to impose this on law enforcement authorities is clear, not that this Parliament has determined the responsibility and level of responsibility and penalties, but that the law enforcement authorities should determine what damage has been done and what suspicion of damage to social property has actually been created in this story. Therefore, we believe that such a decision should not be disputed and that, according to our judgment, the coalition should not oppose it, because if there is no doubt that nothing was wrong, they should leave it to those who are more competent than the political names sitting either in the government or here. In the event that the coalition votes against the decision, so that they do not support the decision, we will understand in the LDS that the coalition opposes taking action in the fight against the clientism and corruption that have become a constant of this life of ours. With regard to the proposed conclusions of the SDS and New Slovenia, let me mention that in LDS we are not surprised by the proposal against the conclusions, as they were proposed by political parties who are very strong actors in this disputed sale of Mercator. However, we believe that the claim of the first decision by the SDS and NSI is not correct, since in fact article 80.f of the Public Finance Act has not been respected, which requires a method for the sale of financial assets that will ensure the optimum achievement of sales objectives. This was not the case in this case, as there was no invitation to tender. A second decision setting a fair price is also drawn up in dispute. We all know that the fair price has not been lifted in this way, as this process has not been put into effect either. We suggest that some of you who have lost your memory take a look at the archive of uniform courses for that period, and you will find out whether the price was fair or not, and see how these shares were sold further and what the sellers achieved. The Court of Auditors has, in fact, delivered an opinion with reservation in its assessment of the regularity of operations, as it has already been established, as it has found some irregularities resulting from the failure to comply with the Statute, that certain procedures have not been followed, namely internal procedures for the sale of shares, that the documentation has not been kept confidentially, that the list of confidential documents has not been updated and has not been carried out in accordance with the provisions on the manual for the sale of shares and the safe, that the management of the Court of Auditors’ activities relevant to its operation has not been considered, which is also not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice. In fact, we are talking here about violations of certain rules and therefore an opinion with reservation. This opinion is easier with reservation to remedy, because some measures are being corrected and this is not a story that is too long to talk about; more is the story of whether and how the matter has been sold and how much it has been torn out of and how transparent it has been. In view of the fact that the procedure for negotiations with the buyer has not been documented, it has not demonstrated how the Court conducted negotiations and what the content of those negotiations from the receipt of the first oral offer until the receipt of the written offer on 24.8.2005. Thus, the Court did not ensure the transparency of the sales procedure, which it also acted against the provision of Article 14 of the Statute of the Court; I will not read this Statute because it would be too long, but these are facts and all documents show this. The situation is similar to that of the Capital Society, where an opinion was also expressed with a reservation, where it is also a matter of domestic business, in many cases failure to comply with the statute and failure to comply with its own rules. So do not all these facts and all these statements, which we all repeat today, which we think are different from the coalition, require that the debate be held, not require that the public be told what was going on with regard to the sale of the stake in Mercator, or do they not require answers to the objectiveisation of the situation in relation to this sale? Is this why some people do not agree that political responsibility should also be assessed in the event that such sales methods have occurred, such as in this case, should such a method of sales have occurred as has been described in this case? And in the case that we are dealing with today, I think that Parliament should have a serious debate, unfortunately it does not look like this, because in this serious debate there are obviously two banks, some who praise, speak of transparency, of expertise, of the best prices and others who are convinced that this is not true and that these basis for decision-making were bad at the time and that the price is not appropriate. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will therefore confirm all the Commission's proposed conclusions on the supervision of the public finances that you have on the table and that you are denouncing or denouncing all the proposed conciliation decisions of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Procedural colleague Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u100	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. In his role as President of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, Milan Petek took this as an opportunity to lower the political pamphlet at the beginning of the performance, and he was extremely rude to our Members as well. In fact, in this political pamphlet, he insulted the President-in-Office of the European Council, the President-in-Office of the European Union and our Members, arguing that the President-in-Office of the European Council is preparing a dictatorship in which Members are not needed. As the ultimate goal of this. And, Mr President, we should immediately warn Comrade Petka, stop and, of course, correct him. Indeed, if a handful of these insinuations were true, then, of course, the highest representatives of the European Union would not come to Slovenia every day, the most eminent people, the greatest fighters for the democracy of Europe and, of course, if these insinuations were any real, Europe would act. For this reason, Mr President, I ask that a colleague who has used a parliamentary speaker also to attack our Members, that we are a quiet majority when we do not react when we do not act to correct him and ask him to justify himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u101	Thank you very much, I do not think there is any need to repeat just what I have just heard, I suggest we move forward, in the context of the debate. As we say in the general debate, we are Members and Members of Parliament on the report itself. But the word has been given by Ambassador Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. President, for giving me your word. Once again, I welcome all my colleagues. Once again, I would like to express my satisfaction that, in the coalition, we have been able to realise our initiative to make a change in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the sense that we accept such provisions of the Rules of Procedure, that the Commission of the National Assembly for the Supervision of Public Finance will have a majority by the opposition and that the opposition will also lead it. That's good, and I'm really glad we made it. Even though that was not the case when we were in the opposition. One of my colleagues from the last branch of this National Assembly, where there's been an ever-increasing commotion lately, has shown us to get written speeches and to read them here and to receive instructions and to read them here. That's actually true. I'll confirm it twice with two documents. I'm sure each of us could read it. Of course, those we have open eyes for it. Slovenia is about to celebrate the fourth anniversary of its accession to the European Union, and we are chairing the Council of the European Union this half-year, so we are probably a European country. Some who have sworn here today on April 1st probably have problems with gravity that are probably more likely to be attracted to behavior than to Brussels. See, if the leadership of the Commission of the National Council for the Control of Public Finance had enough money, then I would ask only the European Commission how Mercator assesses the sale of Mercator. Fortunately this is and I am grateful for it, this task, in place of the President of the Commission, was performed by Mr Boštjan Usernik, I hope that I have rightly stressed that he wrote to the European Commission, I think even three times in the year, the end of 2005 and I have also received an answer. I'm not going to read this whole answer. Perhaps just a few points, if you'll allow me, Mr. President. Let me remind you a little bit about what Mr. User's findings were. The eyewitnesses were next. The Court and Kad sold their shares in Mercator secretly, without prior information to the public and without any public offer allowing other potential buyers to present their offers. Therefore, the shares were sold at a low price, so did Mr Usenik. The sale was subject to a special financial arrangement with customers, which included the payment of the purchase price by 2009 in periodic instalments, at extremely favourable rates, implying additional State aid. The following statement is made that the Court and Kad guaranteed the preliminary right to repurchase those shares by 2009 in the event that the buyers decide to sell them by that year. So these are Mr. User's findings. And what is the European Commission's response, or more precisely the Directorate-General for Competition. The answer is as follows. Just a few fragments. The sale of shares did not contain State aid within the meaning of Article 87 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. This is based on the following arguments. First argument, purchase financing. The buyer did not take advantage of the possibility of payment in periodic instalments between 2006 and 2009. The buyers paid the full price on 23 November 2005 and 31 January 2006. Thus, the more favourable interest rate was supposed to apply only for a short period of time. The Slovenian authorities have provided several examples of loan contracts from different companies, Pivovarne Laško, Istrabenza and others with similar credit capacity, which contained the same conditions. In our view, therefore, the interest rate was in line with market practice. Second argument, preliminary right. Since Istrabenz and Pivovarna Laško have already paid the full price for Mercator’s stakes bought, Kad and the Court no longer have the preliminary right to repurchase those shares. However, this right does not affect the assessment of State aid. And the third and most important argument, the lack or absence of a public offering and the selling price. Despite the absence of a public offer and negotiations with potential buyers prior to the sale, the sales price was established or supported by reliable indicators containing an independent valuation of the valuer based on an internationally recognised methodology, the market price and the price set by Mercator for the future capital increase. This confirms that the sales price reflected a real market price. The request for a premium for this price was not justified. If the buyer had gained control of Mercator, there was no evidence of that for once. So this is a message from the European Commission, and this is also a message for Mr Cwickl, who so brilliantly presented his presentation in Mercator's red color, and this message is in short form, it is very dramatic, I apologize, the mother of all affairs has died. Mr. Cvikl tells us, take the example of selling state property on the case of Hotels Morje, d.d., and you will lose accreditation for a ministerial chair in one of the future governments. It is interesting how some men took over Mrs ASK's recent interview as soon as she spoke, they rallied around her, a very interesting lady. Well, and to continue and confirm that others are writing us speeches [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Yeah, it's true. Look, the speech was written by the President of the Supervisory Board of the company Mercator Business System, d.d. One of the panellists, my speakers, including from the back of this House, suggested that after the previous president had to leave, everything in Mercator is now wrong, there is no pay, there is no 13th salary, there is no regression, they work, I don't know, night and day, there is no stock, the shelves are empty and so on. However, the Supervisory Board on Mercator's business in 2007 estimates, inter alia: "The Supervisory Board estimates that the operations of Mercator's business system, d.d., and Mercator's group and the administration's work in 2007 have been very successful, as all the key planned business objectives were exceeded in 2007 as part of the implementation of the adopted vision and strategic direction of Mercator." There is also something about figures: "The proposal for the use of the balance sheet profit, which amounted to a good EUR 22 million on 31 December 2007, is as follows: part of the balance sheet profit of EUR 16 million is used for the payment of dividends in gross value of EUR 4.25 per share, and the remainder of the balance sheet profit of EUR 6 million is allocated to other reserves of profits." And now my thought and my thinking about Mercator's workers. I am grateful to this National Assembly that it has recently passed a law on the participation of workers in profits. Mr Semolič, with whom we may not be "on you", but this Mr Semilič, I must commend him from this place for his correctness, praised this coalition on state television, on public television, and said that I did not know that this law, which I mentioned, was rolling on ministerial benches and so on, I think eleven years and always stopped right in the Office of the Minister of Finance. Look at this, splinter, this finance minister is the matter - that is, from this government, Dr Andrej Bajuk, this problem has solved and we can be pleased that in Slovenia we now have a law on the participation of workers in profits because I believe and swear that workers are the largest capital of any company. So Mercator workers will also be able to demand their piece of cake for such good business results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am sure that the Slovenian public will not hold against us that we have so much purpose and so much precious time spent on Mercator. It is right that there are different opinions about this here in the National Assembly, but it is necessary to be correct and honest. Of course, if colleagues and colleagues from the opposition wanted to participate in what was actually happening in Mercator's sale, you had the opportunity to join the commission of inquiry to determine the political responsibilities of public function holders in relation to alleged injury and the sale of state stake. At that time, they could have come directly to the face of the main players who had the most in selling Mercator's shares. That's not what you wanted. You've taken a different path. Today, I am sure that the Slovenian public knows that Mercator's sale is in no way comparable to Lek's takeover. Mercator is a trade, it's not a company, it's not a production, it's all before that, and of course it's not worth selling Mercator's shares. But anyway, this clearly shows at least the fact that those who are talking about transparent sales here today, the transparent sales you've been doing in the past, I'm talking about from experience, from the documentation that I've had at my disposal, I've studied, I've learned a lot. And it is those who have been, I will say, the most untransparent, who may have assumed part of the responsibility for damaging state shares in the sale and, of course, today you want to put this on those who have nothing to do with it. Here I cannot go beyond the facts of Mr Brickle and Mr Rope, who have fled from the LDS as properties on another side and want to teach colleagues there how to sell transparently and publicly and how they have done it in the past, but of course the documentation will prove everything before that. This is where I have to expose the Palace Hotels. I think the prefaces have already exposed her to me a few times. Talk about non-transparent sales, with your hand on your conscience laying down and finding out how directly the stake was sold at the Palace Hotel in Portorož, about which Mr. Milan Swickl can tell you a lot. Today we want, or we want the printed and electronic media to show some important role for Mrs ASK as it was, I will say, the most important thing now that she wants to explain what she did not have in the past, but I am a magnetogram where this lady was interviewed on the committee at the eighth session, when she said everything she has to say about Mercator. And you know what she said -- remember, I'll read, Kada and Soda's investments in Mercator were marketed. The orientation in determining the price was the price of the stock on the stock exchange. This was on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange at the time of sale of 36,000 tolars and the sales price was 38 000 tolars. A valuation was also made by Tessens from Ljubljana, setting the Mercator stock price of 35 thousand 200 tolars. Isn't that enough? Is it necessary to ask the same lady again after a certain period of time? We have the documents, we have the magnetogram, which shows that. But, of course, there are other interests now. Therefore, do not expect people who change their minds overnight and want to turn their first statement into another story, of course, we do not allow it, for then we are no longer credible, and the one who declares it has certainly been gone for some time. If I may, I would point out once again what has been said many times. Seeking a sinful goat in the present case, the President of the Government, Janez Janša in connection with the sale of Mercator makes no sense, and be assured that the people accompanying us know for sure. Mercator's sale was transparent, price achieved, was transparent, the withdrawal was as good as possible and it happened what was expected. Certainly not what some wanted, but unfortunately they failed because of the change of power in 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. First, a little bit on the subject of moral teachings that we hear here many times. It would be correct for colleagues who talk about individuals and are ashamed to say the surname they are talking about, and their members are, after all, members who have sat in the government. That speaks to your moral image. Some other time about that. In short, Mercator has had a lot of talk in recent years since September 2005, so I will remind or point out two things, those of you today speaking so vehemently and claiming that the sale itself was transparent, public and that nothing was concluded under the table. It is my opinion, and the argument that the state, and in this case it is the Government and through the Government, should also be the first to ensure that the laws which it proposes and adopts are respected by the Court and Kad. And in that case, unfortunately, that didn't happen. Therefore, the State should not allow the Government to question the legality of this transaction or this transaction in Mercator's case. If the State had taken the withdrawal from the economy seriously at that time in 2000, it would also have proved, in the case of Mercator, that it respected the rights of small shareholders. Today we will have the next item on the rights of small shareholders. And in this case with Mercator, with this transaction, the country was the one that deprived small shareholders. So, with their heat, the small stockholders were tricked. If I were to take the transactions seriously, especially the big ones, I would be doing it through the Exchange, transparently and so on, so that I don't make progress on it. In the case of Mercator, the representatives of Kad and Soda deceived the Slovenian public and politics and everyone else. A few days before the deal was concluded, they said they were still negotiating, while the contract had already been signed. Here I have the documents, from the night Director Kad decided, in the evening - I don't sign, in the morning he signed the contract. It's documented in a complaint filed with the D.A. And all those who say that the deal was transparent, consistent and a good price, I will quote the first Minister's economic advisor, this is the former president or head of the economic forum at the government, Dr Damian. He then stated that this was 9 September 2005: "If we asked for an opinion from the Strategic Council, the Economic Council of the Government, I think that a large majority of the members or even all would be opposed to the fact that Kad and the Court carried out this transaction as they did. The members of the Strategic Council would consider that the method of selling the State's capital shares in Mercator was imprecise and potentially harmful for both taxpayers and the State. I do not know which even more relevant opinion and assessment can be taken into account here if this is stated by the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister with the entire economic and economic team that was there. So Mercator's sale went past the stock market by concluding a deal with one interested person, without the public collecting of bids, which speaks of the state destroying its own capital market, which in the long run cannot be appropriate and welcome both for those who opt for the economy and for others who feel these consequences. In short, you can say whatever you want. If you go to the invitation to tender, you will always reach the highest or higher price because it is ultimately a competition, it is a struggle between those who appear on the list and compete with each other. In this case, it was a transaction concluded under a table with one tenderer. At the time, it was also interesting to hear a statement by the President of the Board of Directors of the Court, who knew little or no about Mercator's sale. The President of the Board of Directors of the Court did not even know that Mercator was being sold when the contract had already been signed. This only speaks, as is known to most or less to all publicly and you also know that Mercator's sale was by the administrations, both the Court and Kad sold without a prior opinion, position or decision of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board in Kad. And if I give here one parallel with the year before 2001, you will remember that the former Director of the Court, because 12.3% of the shares of the Union did not sell to Interbrew, without the consent of the Board of Directors of the Court, sold them to Lashkem, was suspended. And of course, at that time, even in 2005, the question was asked whether the then Director of the Court, who was sitting here today, also because of the same thing, would be said under the terms "infringement", suspended or not. The government and this coalition have obviously decided that this is a systematic way of withdrawing and selling shares in companies, and that is what we are reaping today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The method of selling Mercator’s shares by Kada and Soda is probably too much to talk about, since all the facts were told several times today. I will try to speak a few words, ladies and gentlemen, about your duality in the coalition and about the untruths you're spreading, or half-truths, which is much worse than the untruth. First of all, you do not want to admit that the Court of Auditors has found that there are legitimate grounds for suspecting State property damage in the sale of Kad and the Court’s capital shares in Mercator’s company. You've seen that I read, I've read literally, I haven't added any words, and I haven't taken any. Mercator’s business system was sold, i.e. according to the Court of Auditors, with reasonable suspicion of damage to state property. Why don't you admit it? Why are you looking for answers that's not true? Next. To talk about coming to the investigative commission, which was established after we proposed the establishment of an investigative commission for Mercator and examining over 80 cases of sale of shares in state-owned enterprises. Why don't you admit it's two completely different investigative committees? For one where, since it would have been established on the basis of a minority request, this minority and the opposition would have the required majority and could have taken decisions. And that in the second one you run, the composition is based on the shares of individual parliamentary groups and the opposition of the majority. And it would be completely pointless for you to participate in such an investigative committee, because, as you say today, you could speak to her, because we have made all formal and correct decisions and the National Assembly has taken a decision confirming that there was no damage. No, no, no. The competent commission or the Court of Auditors, the competent authority which decides to do so, has taken a decision, you are not in a position to take it. And talking about having a chance to co-operate and make decisions is therefore half-truth. We have praises, ladies and gentlemen, how generous you have been and you have allowed to establish a majority in the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. What is the purpose of this vast majority? It is intended for the 14-day joy of this Commission to be able to make a decision, it later goes to the National Assembly, where you have the majority, you propose amendments and decisions are taken that do not correspond to the truth, but you are responding to the majority that you represent. And for you, the majority and the vote are more important than the truth. These are the half-truths you're spreading around. And that is why it is completely pointless to try to ensure that what is a fact is accepted. You will always be accepted what the majority has decided. And most of you, as you have warned, do not make decisions based on facts, but on your political interest. Mr President of the National Assembly did not then appoint a Commission to examine Mercator. Although he took note of the opinion of the Law and Legal Affairs Service that in one year the procedure would not be completed in this large investigative commission, so that it would then be specifically established. It has not been completed, nothing has been found, and neither has the Commission, probably because it would be a minority investigation with the majority that the opposition would have had. Secondly, Mr Janša accepted his statement that this was a mistake. However, if the National Assembly, on the basis of the Court of Auditors' opinion, should find this error, you do not allow it and propose amendments that change the facts themselves. Too bad that's the reality of the National Assembly. I'm just repeating your warnings. I hope that voters and voters will listen to this debate and facts and that they will be able to make the right decision very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u110	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. When we listen to this debate today, especially to Mr Cwickel, who is no longer here, it can be quite clear to everyone that he is continuing what he knows best - and this is that he is misleading our public to reverse the findings of both the profession and the European Commission, as well as the Court of Auditors and also those who have done a great deal in this case. Simply put, he keeps telling the truth, but he does not ask himself about the irregularities he performed when selling the hotels of the Sea when selling them at a market price. Mercator was sold above the market price, and here he tries to show that irregularities have been committed. To tell the truth, I will give specific examples, specific figures, because for what I am saying in my debate, there are also very precise data. I will focus on Mr Cwickel's debate, which said that all these sales of state property by this Government are in fact the reason for the ever-increasing unemployment in Slovenia, that we have an increasing number of people without work, but the data showing exactly the opposite are the following. In 2005, when Mercator was also sold, we had 90 thousand 566 unemployed in Slovenia in August, today or in January 2008 there are 69 thousand 238. It means there were over 21,000 new employees at this time. This means that the situation is completely different than it is. It states that the Court of Auditors has found irregularities. That's not true. The Court of Auditors has expressed some dilemma that it has been possible to recover slightly less than it would otherwise have been, but simple cases from the last period show that this is not the case. This was also stated by Mr Kumar, Mr Potrč, that the collection of offers is the best price thus obtained. It just doesn't hold. Take the example of Telekom. Telekom or Telekom’s shares were about EUR 400 a year ago on the Stock Exchange, moving up a bit, moving down a bit. At the end of the international tender for the sale of Telekom, we found, after more than a year, that none of those who applied for the tender offered the price, which is now only EUR 250, 280. The price goes up a little bit again. It's going down a little bit. Are you going to say again that there was damage to property because the government didn't sell Telekom a year ago at a stock exchange?Oh, my God! I don't know. Maybe now you'll start turning this around. It means that there is no pre-known rule in which to survive the most. Then, all the time, you are turning over - both Mr. Squeakl and Mr. Potsch, that the President of the Government admitted that Mercator's sale was a mistake. Again, you take his statement or interview in Mag from the context. Never, I repeat, has he ever, in one word, claimed or regretted Mercator's sale in the sense that the price that Mercator then received was too low that anything was wrong with it. You took it out of the context, he just stated that with this sale, when Laško gained such a significant influence, both in decision-making in Mercator and Mercator himself, in the market share in Slovenia, he also began to abuse his position. In this respect, it stated that Mercator's sale could have been a mistake. The monopolies and inflation, or rising prices of living needs that we witnessed in the last half of last year, could have been the result. That's what the Prime Minister was talking about, not that the purchase was too low. So, all that you're saying is you're deceiving, Mr Squeakl, and all of his species of Social Democrats. Therefore, I ask that you no longer pursue your duality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Kumer, do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u112	I have a replica of Mr Grill, mainly because of the fact that we have decided on a market economy, then the invitation to tender and the call for tenders is also on such a sale, then you cannot convince me that the conclusion of a deal with one tenderer could be better than if we went to the market. That's the first time. Another time. If so, he really wanted to be a good business and was a guarantee that it was a better business than going to the market, why then the board of directors, what the problem was in the board of directors in the Court and in Kad, that they knew nothing about it and that they did not give their consent. Then what's the problem? Why did the leadership in one or two heads decide to do so? I said earlier that an indictment had been filed stating how this decision had been made within twelve hours of the night, 29. 8 to 30. 8. Please! If she wants to be honest. And it's just one of the proofs that the actual thing wasn't properly set. Even when you say arguments that [[...]] [[shutdown]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Lakhovnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! In the Group of Members, we are, in a way, surprised that Members and Members of the ruling coalition still believe that the sale of Mercator is not wrong. Finally, the President of the Government said that Mercator's sale was a mistake. We were therefore surprised, in a way, when the head of the relevant commission investigating the characteristics of the sale of Kada and Soda did not invite the chronic witnesses of this sale, which was offered publicly to come and tell us what Mercator was selling. Chairman of the Management Board of Pivovarna Laško, Mr Šrot himself said he was ready to come to explain everything, wherever he went, he said it several times in the media and no one invited him. What are you afraid of? If we did so, we might be able to clear up all the elements of Mercator's sales in the National Assembly, but not just now, when we watch on POP TV from day to day a new continuation of Mercator's sales series and it has as many sequels as those of the famous Mexican sequels, by making it more interesting and more dramatic but of course for all taxpayers more worrying, and for those Mexicans there is nothing to be paid for, and for these Mercator, all Slovenian taxpayers obviously paid a lot. However, this could be prevented if this debate was properly held in this National Assembly. But why didn't all the actors ask if they were willing to say if they knew anything, they would tell what was the condition that they had to or could buy Mercator, how this government was doing, and then they would come to the bottom, and now it's impossible to get to it. Of course, it's kind of interesting how at once, when Mercator's sales players began to talk about all the elements of this sale, what policy has given them the condition that they suddenly lost their desire in the ruling coalition to be heard in this National Assembly and to be able to speak frankly about everything they know. So it's just an episode, obviously not to be concluded, at least not in this term. You made an extraordinary effort to prevent the establishment of an investigative commission to investigate Mercator's sale, which the opposition wanted to establish. Then you ran these procedures the way you led them, in order to keep nothing out of the public eye. But then there was that "whistleblowing" effect, when some just started talking about what was actually happening. And now, if it goes that way, we will gradually only be able to find out everything, but not in this National Assembly, but on POP TV. On public RTV, it's probably a little harder because it's easier to control, but there are other media that report it. So I am particularly sorry today that we cannot talk about all the dimensions of this sale. But we cannot talk about all these dimensions because not all the actors who know and are willing to say anything have been invited to do so. Personally and also in the Group of Members, we do hope, nevertheless, that the policy from this sale has learned something about the need to sell state property transparently, preferably on public tenders. That it is very wrong for someone as important a company as Mercator, an attempt or a means to control the media through it, that it is short-term, that it does no good to anyone, and that it is finally the most damaging thing for the politician who plays such a dangerous game because it burns with fire. And now we can all look at this in the last period of the embarrassment of key actors, political actors, when in fact we would like to put things under the rug in some way. So that in the Group of Members, indeed, we would expect that in some way the Members of the ruling coalition would also be critical to this show, if not for another reason, because he is also the President of the Government, the President of the European Council, Mr Janša said that Mercator's sale was a mistake. Indeed, from his point of view, the error is probably because he failed to gain control of Del and the other media, which was probably the intention, but we can leave it at the side, even if you make a dot, and you say that it was a mistake, it is already the beginning of what follows the realization that, however, in the sale of state-owned enterprises, especially as important as Mercator, it is necessary to follow the principle of transparency and efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Starman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I think we're wasting too much time with this debate. Maybe you'd like to illustrate more with a joke. A boy from a Scotsman runs all over the house and says, "Why are you so tired and breathed?" My son says, "My dad ran after a school bus all the way, and I saved 10 pennies." Then Dad looks at him like, "Oh, you were so stupid. Why didn't you run for a cab and save 10 euros or 5 pounds?" This debate, as long as we can survive, is much too long to discuss, because it would actually be possible to discuss this in a transparent way. I think that those who have a serious intention in this matter should actually propose certain changes in the course of sale or business of Kad, Soda or the State when they have their property. I have said this before, and in fact, if it is found that some things are not properly carried out, that the purchase is improperly spent, that procedures are misguided, it is necessary to change them. I don't think anyone has found any substantial infringements of the procedures themselves, but with existing legislation it is possible to conduct procedures in this way. It is possible to talk about all sales, that there has been too little, in all this possibility exists, there is a possibility that someone has benefited from this, but this must be proved if there have been any criminal acts. I think it's really a waste of time and that we need to go somewhere else, and we will do more good than this debate - on all these commissions, at all ends and places, because this debate is not going anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u117	Thank you. Mrs. Pecan, she's not. Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Well, since there's not much time left, I'll cut it short. A lot of words were said about whether this was the right sale or whether it was harmful or harmless. Various institutions, different individuals have expressed their views that I am not talking about respected colleagues of the opposition economists. But, look, even in today's debate, I haven't heard any concrete economic argument to confirm these predictions. As far as I am concerned, I conclude this debate with the opinion of the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Union, which found on a complaint from Slovenia that it was not unlawful State aid, it is said that the State did not sell at a price [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Yeah, yeah, just read it to yourself, Mr. Potch. [[...]] But if you have, in fact, looked at me so nicely, and I ask you, by the way, when you're looking for your papers, quote the page of the audit report on which the Court of Auditors would say that there is a suspicion of damage to state property. So much for that. But there's one more thing I'd like to mention. Today, I have repeatedly heard the abuse of the statement by the Prime Minister that it was a mistake to sell Mercator. He did say yes. And he said something else. That's what you have to say. We think or are convinced that this was not about the level of the price achieved for the stock, but that it was about realizing that the buyer of Pivovarna Laško and Istrabenz later broke the objective of this purchase, which was to develop their business relations in the market of the former Yugoslavia through ownership in Mercator. We know that then Istrabenz, with the subsequent disposal of Mercator's shares, gave up this goal and thus made it possible for Lashko Pivovarna unexpected or I think that unacceptable concentration in Mercator's ownership, which later turned out to be harmful and had a bad impact on the competitiveness of domestic trade. And that shows this error, and that's what the president thought. And there's one more thing. If we're talking about buying shares, we never know what the result is, whether it's good or bad, there's always a risk.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Four years ago, in this house, the current Prime Minister of the Government repeatedly repeated triple K, customerism, corruption and the place. And since the then opposition Member, the Prime Minister of the Government, was in this mandate, it was normal to expect that we would have a very critical relationship in this house to these three words in order to remove any dilemma. If there is any suspicion that these phenomena may occur in Slovenian society, we will do everything to prevent these perceptions from ever being given. Today we can witness that this is not the case. That we are not really interested today in responding to those forms of non-transparent sales that have taken place in this mandate in a transparent manner. One of the facts that speaks about this is that today we Members are trying to interpret the government's statement that Mercator's sale is a mistake. Would it not be correct for the Government, which is at this point, to be able, at least, to monitor and be so evident from the time declared, to report for 30 minutes. Would it not be correct for the Slovenian public today by the President of the Government to explain by this Government the point at which Mercator's sale was a mistake? I think the government should do this responsibility to the Slovenes and Slovenians today. Why doesn't he want to do it? Why does it leave doubts in the debate on such an important issue? And today, talk about how the government and the president of the government were naive at a time when shares were being sold in Mercator -- yes, who are you telling? So we can say that we have a sucker at the head of this Slovenian Government who doesn't understand what's going to happen very soon after the stakes in state property have been sold. Can we understand the attitude of the President of the Government as assessed by the coalition MPs? Of course, then we really have to ask ourselves, at the responsibility of the President of the Government, because the responsibility of the President of the Government, which is being paid today by all Slovenians and Slovenes, is that the prices of basic living needs have increased very, very, very much and very significantly, the weak social strata of Slovenia and the Slovenians have been affected. If that's the case, then you have to admit this mistake. And if you admit this mistake, then you must acknowledge the responsibility of Slovenian society to make these mistakes. And here today, there is a doubt that will not be cleared and we are talking about the Court of Auditors’ view of the usefulness of the sale procedure as a risk that the best purchases for Mercator’s shares have not been made. Why aren't these answers from the government here today? It's not just that Mercator's one of the cases. I also ask the Minister of Vision about other projects for the sale of state property, the case of the Nitrogen Factory, namely TDR Metalurgy, where Minister Vizjak clearly and loudly tells us that he is not interested in how now the new buyer to whom the State sold the TDR Metalurgy is selling the assets, so he is not interested in how and at what price this is happening, saying that this company was sold above the value of the valuation of this company, without providing information on what this value is after two questions it has asked him. So this is about the attitude towards the public, the transparency, the Slovenes and the Slovenians, because it is very difficult to imagine today those who listen to us, what opinions they should create, but I think that in this house we should all have the same interest, to prevent any abuse and any damage to tax money. This interest should be shared in this house, unfortunately we do not. I regret this and regret that instead of the conclusions that would allow this event to be clarified in Mercator, we will replace it with a conclusion, and simply all doubts, all the dilemmas and risks that the Court of Auditors has pointed out, we will close with such beautiful conclusions that there have never been any problems here. Unfortunately, we have only the naive Prime Minister of the Government who misjudged that under market economy conditions, if the buyer of the new property becomes also a supplier of commercial networks, there will be no abuse here. I will therefore, of course, support all those conclusions which go into further clarification. However, it does not seem right for me to try to close the whole area with conclusions that close answers to open questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u122	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues. Look, let's let people know who have to listen to us, because they're also paying us to have a Public Finance Supervisory Commission, and I was a member of this Commission in the past term. This Commission has its task and has carried out and identified and proposed three conclusions. To note that there is a reasonable reason for suspecting State property damage in the sale of Kad and Soda’s capital shares at Mercator. Under point two, it is likely that the Court did not recover the highest purchase for Mercator, that the sale was a mistake to establish the liability of the persons. And point three. To be instructed by members of the Kada Assembly appointed by the Government and the Kad supervisory council to determine the responsibility of persons. I believe 50, 50. What's the problem? We have a commission in charge. The Commission warns, let's take these three conclusions, find out, and I will applaud you when you prove that none of this is wrong. However, under point two, I do not believe in my own experience as mayor, because I did not negotiate with one of the companies selected for European work because I did not negotiate and did not stand the price lower, today after seven months, even though I paid as mayor of all the situations, I did not get the European money entered into by the contract. Why am I being punished? Someone else who made the same mistake, but apparently not. Why did they study me? Every 14 days, the commission came. Six months, every fourteen days. Why should we not consider once in this National Assembly what this country is doing? So I'll be glad you'll prove to your colleagues that everything was fine. However, if you are honest, you will support these three conclusions of the commission, which is appointed and designed to do so. Because that's why we have it. Otherwise, take it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll start like this. It is human error to sell Mercator, if government representatives and government coalitions admitted their mistake, it would be human. But they're defending her today. They advocate in terms of how thoughtful and how good the sale was for this country and how much people as owners of this company have even profited. Two years ago, correct me, maybe three years ago, when Mercator was selling himself, you allowed something you banned in December and called it a fight against tycunization. So, first you try something out, you do something for your own good, or, to say otherwise, for your own sake, I don't know who, and then you ban it, because you found out that the way things are going, no one can do it anymore. But you did it. And that the story of the sale of state property, including Mercator, the three K's who brought this party to power, I'll say, even more advanced, you've chosen even some new twists over what you've proposed. If you look at or open today who received the invitation to clean UKC in Maribor, you will see which company it is. There's no one in the control world but Stanislav Friday. A man who tells this client what to do, who to sell and how to do something. You did this, no corruption, no clienteleism, no tycoons escaped. And as one of the predecessors of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group advocated, so we prevented further tycunization, you did not. You've made new ones, those that this government doesn't want to hunt. These are the people I'm going to mention now, and if you're so many Members and so many people on your own, you're going to check it out on your base. Once again, two years ago, when it came to selling Mercator, you did what you called last December to fight the tycoons. You took advantage of yourself at first, and then, so no one else would do it again, you banned it when you were exhausted. You threw only a little bone at Paloma, but you banned it yesterday to do it, despite the deal you had with each other, and in 2004, you split the companies out of what you're going to draw. When NSI exhausted something, you decided to solve it yesterday. It's not fair to your coalition partners, not to anyone else. In the Lipa Group, we will support the conclusions, the first three conclusions proposed by the Commission. The conclusions, as proposed by the coalition parties, seem completely misleading, unrealistic and distracting from that truth. Ladies and gentlemen, I tell you one thing: just like the ones you refer to in the previous government, you are blurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Although April 1st, the topic is quite serious, and on the other hand, one gets the feeling that some text would give four different directors to make four different performances. We have one here today, which is the continuation of the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances, the second performance takes place in another direction on an investigative committee, so that there will be no mistake that is chaired by my colleague Marinič. The third performance takes place somewhere in Cyprus in a court that only has an excerpt from this text. The fourth performance has been taking place for some time in the widest audience in the media. On the other hand, if a person tries to dismiss the authors of individual statements or contributions, in some way to abstract, and to seek only logic in these statements, the logic of the arguments that try to prove one or the other, you become very sad because this is below the level of the basic course of logic and these texts could serve for some exercises of logic, where they would primarily prove what is illogical. And look, from this point of view, this statement by the Prime Minister or three arguments, and I would not even like with the Prime Minister, because it is here, unfortunately, more with his co-workers or co-thinkers who have relegated this to three amendments, to a conclusion that I think they are not honoured, it would be better to withdraw them, and by some more deliberate approach they would try to neutralise the proposed decisions, which are otherwise on the only serious text, that is, the findings of the Court of Auditors' audit or the Supreme Auditor. First argument, the sale was legal. Who claims the sale was illegal? No one claims, nor is the proposal to convene an extraordinary meeting from which it all comes, no one has claimed that the sale is illegal. Therefore, why would they use an argument or prove that the sale is lawful if no one contests it? So much so that, in the absence of arguments for any other claims, we are trying to fill space and time and ears. Second, the price is real. Who can claim that the price is real if they did not try to determine the reality of the price? That Mercator’s shares were on the stock exchange is a fact, but this does not yet provide a real price or an optimal price at which the seller should aim on behalf of the State. Nor did he attempt to collect any way, in any way envisaged, any offers from potential buyers, and therefore it is not possible to say that the price was real. Just like the other way around, it's possible to suspect she wasn't tall enough. Therefore we speak, those who tend to do so, of the suspicion of injury, and likewise the Court of Auditors confirmed. Those who believe that the sale was lawful because it was carried out in accordance with Article 80e or Article F do not yet state that such a way of sale in the law is permissible, that it followed this legal formula, but that the next question of price suitability is the question. That the price was right. I'm sorry, there was no argument at the plenary session in the entire discussion of the Commission. Just so someone says the price was right, and for that it does not offer any argument, it is too small, so all that is involved is politely said, I do not take it seriously and personally as a lack of really substantial arguments to cast aside suspicions. Of course, it would be easier to dismiss suspicions if both the leadership of the Court and the responsible representatives of the Government participated in the discussion and arguedly rejected if they had arguments, individual assumptions or assumptions. Apart from the Ministry of Finance at the work of the Commission, for example, the Ministry of Economy and the Minister is literally avoiding it. As an example of the illogical and inappropriate use of the argument, even here at the plenary session repeated several times, a European office in Brussels said something. Since he said it wasn't state aid, it's okay. This would also be lacking in declaring this to be State aid, which is unacceptable. But finding that this was not State aid does not mean that the sale was optimal or approximately correct. This is said to be an abuse or confusion of terms or an abuse of arguments, for some things that were not even problematic here. If these four plays, which I have used on purpose at the beginning, are used or merged, it is clear that Mercator's sale was not a goal, but was a means to achieve another objective related to the Dela Media House. It doesn't even make sense to discuss it, because it's a fact. Unfortunately, since I was involved at the time, I know about another parallel goal, if I may say so. In addition to taking over or providing or taking over work, it happened to the same actors in parallel or simultaneously taking over a civil society institution called the Handball Association of Slovenia or the Slovenian handball industry. There's no time to present all the time and everything that's happened. Those who know it are also aware of it. Therefore, to put it mildly, it is irresponsible to try to hide the illogical, illogical proposals of some amendments to the conclusions. You can't hide that. I'm not a sympathizer either, so I don't know what to do with it. The fact is that it happened, the fact is that there was a whole bunch of irregularities in this sale, and the fact is that the goal was something else and the sale was just a means. But to anyone who can read, the clear answer to the question why the Court sold at that time is not a matter of date. He didn't need liquidity, he didn't have sales in the program, he didn't put it in the balance sheet of his program, and he still sold it. And before that, there was so much talk about the excellent management and management of the Soda. I think it's solid in certain, but not entirely. However, the question arises whether the management of the Court has been so excellent and is still in the present and near past and that the leadership of the Court knows so well to judge movements in the financial markets, why such a mistake has made Istrabenz earning 100 million euros in two years, why the Court would not deserve it. Nobody's gonna answer that. That's a question I'd be very interested in. If the Court, the leadership, so knows how to anticipate movements and has such merit to increase the value, as previously stated, independently of a variable called the movement of courses in the financial markets, then this event could also be foreseen and this 100 million euro could still come into the Court of First Instance. I hope they don't judge that they have too much money and that that's why they can make the sale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u128	Thank you, President. There's not enough time. Just my comment on how obviously some of us read differently the documents that were used or quoted for our explanations today. I simply do not understand how coalition members can read the Court of Auditors' report in a way that assesses that there is no risk of injury with or with their report. It is quite clear that this is exactly the kind of diction that gives the basis for all of us to imagine what was happening in this sale. That's what I think is clearly written. To talk about the fact that the Supervisory Board and the Management Board of the two institutions have confirmed, that is, the correctness of the conduct, that they have clearly confirmed, because we know on what principle these two bodies are made up and what task they also fulfil in this matter. As a result, we cannot agree that these two arguments are the basis for denying the need for accountability. And for the third time. Mr Horvat is pleased that the Commission's business composition has been adopted. Let me remind him that in the past term, this commission has been composed in such a way that it has [[....]] [[turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If it wasn't for April 1st today, I'd resent the lies that you Members of the ruling coalition have been spreading after my opening statement on some of the transactions that should have been carried out at the time I was the President of the Board of Directors of the Court. But since it's April 1st, I can't even blame you for that. However, in order not to cost an answer, I quote, "The Court of Auditors' report on the correctness of the sale of shares of Hotels Sea in the Slovenian Compensation Company: Slovenia's compensation company acted in accordance with the applicable rules in the sale of shares of Hoteli Morje and in the accounting treatment of the investment." Positive opinion. And secondly, on prudence. "The shares of Hoteli Palace were traded for shares of other companies, thereby improving the quality of the portfolio in line with the security policy, greater return on investment. In our opinion, the Court has successfully conducted the sale of the shares of Hoteli Morje and the exchange of shares of Hoteli Palace." These are the facts. I've told you before. If you are already interfering with the previous mandate and are attacking those who have launched an initiative to create an investigative commission on Mercator, then at least see if the opinion of an independent institution is in line with your idea that in the past mandate everything was just clientism, corruption and theft. But this is in harmony with what John Janša does. Janez Janša said on Andrijana Starina Kosem's statement: "Well, we also steal, only that we persecute those who steal. Please! Firstly, for the previous term of office, it has not been established at any of the meetings of the Commission of Inquiry that any of the transactions have been disputed, but also through the opinions of the Court of Auditors, as I have just quoted them, and some of them can be quoted as having been confirmed that the transactions have been prudent and transparent. And then about the amendments you're proposing. I don't know how you read this 80.f article of the current law, but let me quote it. This begins as follows: "In the sale of the financial and real property of the State or the municipality, such methods should be chosen to ensure the optimum achievement of the sales objectives." And when a financial institution such as the Court, a shareholder company, sells assets, then, of course, is the only meaningful, logical goal that needs to be achieved, maximizing the proceeds. This is why there is to be public offerings, public procurement or public procurement. However, the provision of paragraph 4 which refers to a direct contract shall apply where a share or two is sold. Here, however, they do not sell or sell shares or two, but they sold virtually most of the company or sold the company’s size over the take-over threshold. I should therefore like to quote again that "Even if sold like this, it is necessary to take into account the legislation governing the securities market and/or the laws governing the takeover." Some of you have quoted here today the opinion of the European Commission. The European Commission is a serious institution that believes in serious governments. And this assumes that when governments inform the European Commission of the actions of the para-national funds, they shall inform them of everything. This, as the Court of Auditors' report shows, has not been done because, otherwise, the Court of Auditors' report would not be blackened at the point where it refers to the functioning of the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors. We will vote today on the amendments and on the proposed conclusions. I do not expect the ruling coalition to support the Commission's conclusions on the supervision of public finances, because, of course, you want to demonstrate your political power. And this political power will be demonstrated by rejecting the proposed conclusions. However, these proposed conclusions remain. The Commission has forwarded them to the competent institutions and I hope that the competent institutions will take appropriate action and, on the basis of documents, determine whether or not there is a suspicion of damage to state property. However, it is very interesting that today or today the media report has managed to sell 2% of Mercator's shares to Israbenz for about EUR 20 million of capital profit. This money should go to the state budget. However, if we sold the whole part, then the total of EUR 100, 110 million of capital gains that Istrabenz earned should go to the public finances balance sheet and the Slovenian taxpayers should not be harmed. To say that a contract price has been reached, the fair price that has been agreed on and so on has been a kind of transfer. In case you are selling such a significant share, there is a takeover premium in theory and practice, and there was no takeover premium in Mercator's business. Why wasn't it? Why wasn't there a takeover? Because, of course, the buyers who met with John Janša on August 12 also agreed on the price at which they would buy it. The Prime Minister usually does not know all the details, and I regret that there was not at least any economist at this meeting who would say that it is very strange to sell such an important share without a premium, unless the Prime Minister wanted to do so at this meeting: it is not transparent to sell Mercator. He did it, he did it. In the National Assembly, however, we have set up a commission with the will of the ruling coalition, which is clearly not going to reach the bottom of this affair as an investigative commission. Today's debate on the sale of Kad and the Court of Justice's capital shares in Mercator's company and on the alleged damage to state property is, therefore, in some way to compensate for the unsuccessful work of the so-called Marine Commission or the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions and so on. That's what we find today. With the conclusions that the ruling coalition will make, I have no doubt, by force and political arithmetic, you will confirm that political actors do not have to assume political responsibility for bad deeds. And that means that we have at least double criteria in Slovenia. The President of the Government may convene a meeting to give two groups of buyers 200 million euros in gifts when someone else tries to do so closes it and leads it to an investigative judge. I therefore regret that you note that the Court of Auditors is not supposed to detect damage to state property, but you forget that the Court of Auditors has made this clear in its opinion. With regard to prudence, it concluded that the Court did not seek to ensure the best bargaining position and thus the more favourable selling conditions, did not carry out interest verification activities and simply did not have the time to do so, since between 12 August and 31 August this transaction had to be carried out at all costs. This price was presented today, amounting to a quarter of a billion euros, half of the highway programme per year. These are, of course, too high numbers for the opposition to go past them, and I therefore estimate that today we have shown that this has occurred and that the President of the Government has finally acknowledged this. And you're still saying everything was fine. Today is April 1st, the day of the liars.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u131	Thank you. Does the proposer want another word? Here you go, Mr. Milan Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As a proposaler, I would like to make a final point on today's debate. I must say that, as President of the Commission, and I also believe that, on behalf of all the members of the Commission, I am glad that this hearing has taken place today. In fact, the Commission has carried out its task, its role in this Parliament as Parliament's highest authority for the supervision of public finances. That, therefore, today's meeting of the Commission's two-and-a-half-year epilogue, once called a somewhat longer term, is now called the Commission for Public Finance Supervision. That this is an epilogue of the work of the members of the Commission, which in the meantime also changed slightly, including the President. And I think that in this way we have justified our role and the task that we have, and we have proposed to the National Assembly to carry out this debate. Unfortunately, what has already been said is that the Government's attitude is different from that of Members, such as the Commission's attitude that these meetings are not present today. And this should not be the practice and case used in the Slovenian temple of democracy. Whatever the debate was, whatever the level of the debate was, I think it was either whether the electorate, the audience and the viewers of this debate were able to reach a verdict, what and what they will decide when they have to go to the elections. Even if the proposed conclusions are not adopted today, and it seems to me that they will not, because this coalition majority still think that rejection of the conclusions is more important than even confirming the demands and reasonable proposals for realisation, let me say that I am pleased, so I have understood the thinking of Mr Starman, who spoke of the fact that the debate today seems unnecessary to him, but he joins those who think that it must be determined who is, if he is, responsible for this situation. And in this way, I somehow assess that Mr Starman is still indirectly joining the first decision. And that is precisely the purpose of those who, I don't know, have read carefully enough the first decision, which speaks of whether there is a suspicion of injury, then have their task taken over by those authorities, these are the authorities of control and persecution, which should determine whether or not this injury has occurred, but not the National Assembly. The National Assembly and those Members who spoke about it did not, and we did not talk in the conclusions of the Commission about the illegality of sales, but we talked about the suspicion that there was damage to sales. Therefore, the call to all if you want the Commission in any term of office, in any composition of Parliament, has its own meaning, as it is now, when the opposition has a majority, that is precisely because of this, if there are doubts within the Commission, prepare or bring matter to the National Assembly, to give your support by adopting conclusions also to such a way of thinking and a journey for the good work of the Commission in the future. Thank you for once, and I hope that's the way it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u133	Thank you. This concludes the general debate. We are moving on to the debate on the conclusions and amendments tabled to the conclusions to be taken on the basis of the 28th Amendment Review. 3 Do You Have a Procedural Proposal? [[..]] [[No, no, ……]] I am putting to the debate the amendments of the SDS and NSI groups to the first decision. Desire for a debate? I am opening the possibility of applying for a debate on the amendment to the first decision. Mr. Squeakle, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u134	Very briefly. The proposed conclusions are entirely inadequate. It is forgotten the content of Article 80.f, which speaks of optimizing the terms of the sale. And I'm interested in what the National Assembly is going to find out that the price was 38 thousand dollars, but if the Court of Auditors found that it couldn't confirm that it was the right one. The Court of Auditors said that there is a great risk that we have lost hundreds of millions of euros. And so to say that this is a fair price, that means, yes, politically we agree that we have given a great gift to two buyers. This is possible from the point of view of your policy, from the point of view of taxpayers, who are all supposed to be represented here, but of course, it is a great foolishness. And equally with regard to the third decision, if you want the competent domestic and European institutions to please you, the European institutions have been lied to by the Minister of Vizjak and UVK! [[...]] The Treaty has not been sent, but the Treaty has made it clear that it is a joint operation and that, on the basis of the agreement on the contract and all the cases currently taking place in the Coroner Court, it can prove that cooperation is linked, which means that a takeover offer and a takeover premium should be reached in accordance with the Law on takeovers. I will not support the amendments to the conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u135	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I must say that the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and the New Slovenia Group are a mockery of the facts, which we can nevertheless mention, we have been able to obtain and monitor on the current tape in dealing with the Mercator issue. That is why I would point out that we have already heard an explanation from our colleagues today regarding the statement made by Mr Janez Janša, Prime Minister, when he said that the sale of Kada and Soda shares in Mercator, Istrabenz and Lashko Brewery was a mistake. While claiming in its statement that it was normal not to be able to declare that the sale was illegal, the price was unrealistic, it says that the procedure was just as transparent as in previous sales under the same normative acts of all parastating funds. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who has ruled countless times in three and a half years, himself and his colleagues in the Government or in the National Assembly reiterated how the illegal sales procedures or procedures carried out by various para-national institutions, as well as the government itself in the previous term, were as transparent as the transparent procedures in the previous mandate. That's great. It is said that because he found that the procedures had already been untransparent and harmful to the State, I do not know how many times in the fight for power, but also now that the procedures in the previous mandate were as transparent and legal as the illegal and non-transparent procedures of the past government. This is said to recognise that Mercator's sale was not legal and was not transparent, in that, as has already been said, the Commission of Inquiry has not yet established any illegal sales process for Kada and the Court in previous mandates to determine the legality of the sale of State shares in companies. So this is where we come in when we don't actually know what the President of the Government has said. According to his belief, the sale of Kadov and the shares of the Court in Mercator is illegal and untransparent because it claims so. At the same time, he says that it would have been better if it had not come to it at all, because it showed that the objectives that had never been announced had occurred and that they had been leaked to the public probably from that August 2005 meeting, that the concentration of ownership, the claim that the acquisition premium should not have been paid because it was not a concentration of ownership. Thus, Mr President himself denies the Government because it was a concentration of ownership after it, but it was not used for good purposes. A very old river says the path to hell is pressed with good intentions. And here we can see that the good intentions that were agreed in 2005 in August, during the secret meeting, were the path to hell. Until today and perhaps some day later, when we find that the negotiation of large businessmen and the President of the Government was illegal, untransparent and particularly harmful to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Apparently, the limit of patience has passed that his partners in these talks were not willing to give in to the influence on the media, which he wanted to keep to himself. And that actually led to his statement that it was a mistake. For this reason, I believe that these amendments are in fact all farce and that it would be appropriate for both coalition partners to withdraw them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u137	Thank you. Anyone else? I can still see the hands, so I am reopening my application to discuss the first amendment. Mr. Trofenik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. I will not talk about the first decision, as the first part of the amendment proposed by the coalition Members, because I have already said enough about it. This first conclusion doesn't prove anything we want to prove. Let's take a look at the second conclusion. The second conclusion states that the National Assembly finds that a contract price of SIT 38 000 per share has been reached. The fair price was agreed at a level that exceeded the current market price or market price. It's true that it was arranged. But that's almost the only truth in this text. That it was marketable is a total non-reality because no one identified the market price with any of the known or, if you want, prescribed procedures. Neither did he collect offers from potential buyers nor anything else that was envisaged or prescribed, so this text simply does not hold. However, in order for the stock price to be exclusively evidence of an appropriate price, it is also a little too severe. But as for the third conclusion, I don't think I should ever go through the National Assembly. The National Assembly, if it adopts this decision, will consciously ignore the Supreme Auditor in the Republic of Slovenia, the Court of Auditors, which is skillfully released from this text, to resolve the embarrassment they are talking about in the second amendment. The Court of Auditors, as a fundamental or basic competent institution for the determination of irregularities, found irregularities and recorded them in the reports. I have a feeling that some have only read a summary on the page and half of the reports, but not the rest of the reports. That is why this third decision is how the European Commission is supposed to identify directly, and this is also a little unclear to me. The position of the Office for the Protection of Competition, but I said earlier, does not mean anything about regularity or irregularity, says that only one irregularity was not in the sense of unlawful State aid. If I conclude the debate on the amendment to the first draft of the conclusions, this cannot be supported and it would be very wise, I will say, the wise one, which is only a nuance, if the motioners withdraw the conclusions, find a more succinct way to say so, or an acceptable option to destroy the conclusions proposed by the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. All three proposals for conclusions attached in the form of the first amendment, in my firm opinion, are illegal. The fact is that the applicants, with the above-mentioned additions, are trying to show off odd transactions as good-looking and thus to close doubts for the whole future, and this is justified by doubts about the work of the Prime Minister of the Government, whom we have all come to realize together, as he himself has shown that the negotiations were under the table. Personally, I do not believe that the applicants have difficulty or are aware that the proposed conclusions harm the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the end and in the first place, it would make sense for all of us to pursue together a goal that would allow for a high-quality sale or, last but not least, that would not lead to such a negative norm in the future as the National Assembly gives it with the possible adoption of these three conclusions. As regards the first decision in the Lipa Group, we estimate that it has not been carried out in accordance with Article 80.f of the Public Finance Act. The dictatorship of the said article weighs in a different content, a different content and is only a proposal for a decision, and the method of execution itself as an authentic interpretation in another substance, as the legislator originally wrote. This means that we deny ourselves as legislator if we adopt such a proposal for a decision. Hereinafter, the second proposal is made when it comes to the so-called fair price. Of course, it makes sense to ask whether we can draw the identification between the stock price or the price on the securities market and the fair price. If we made a constant or an equation between the exchange price and fair price, it means that the fair price could vary by up to 10% from day to day on the Slovenian stock exchange. But probably each of you knows that the stock market doesn't regulate fair prices, but it's mostly shaped by speculation. Unfortunately, Slovenia is so small that speculative elements are mainly press articles in the daily newspaper, but not least, which is very sad, but I sincerely hope that in the future there will be no press statement, a press conference of ministers, not least various government commissions or even representatives of various production or processing content. As regards the third proposal for a decision for which we also assess, in the context of the Lip Group, that there is no place for it under the legislative procedure, because it merely complements the theory by which I started my initial presentation up to three proposals for a decision, it merely complements the lawfulness of the illegal one. The fact is that the third proposal of the decision provides for an exclusive ruling only if the applicants disagree with the sovereignty and autonomy of the Court of Auditors. The fact is that the elements of our country's assessment are much more than those that correspond to the applicants or even fear the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this given situation. The national assembly of three proposals for a decision in the review of the amendment should not have accepted any more to protect its sovereignty, except in order to protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u141	Thank you. Anyone else? I can only see one hand. Mr. Testen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u142	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again. I believe that from today's point of view to assess what is right, what is the fair price, what is significantly better than when Mercator was selling. In fact, the SBI's index of Mercator's visa clearly shows that the index grew faster than Mercator's share price, which means that the price was right. But I just want to say one more thing about the statement made by Mr Squill, who quoted it. He quoted the findings of the Court of Auditors in the case of the revision of the Hotels of the Sea and Hotel Palace, but forgot to say what was found and forgot to say that this sale was the reason for its replacement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u143	Thank you. Anyone else? Yes, here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u144	I'm replicating Mr. Testen. They didn't replace me. I gave up. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u145	Anybody else want to discuss this? I see one hand. Mr. Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'm forced to replicate, even though I don't like doing it, Comrade Testen. For exactly one objective reason. Please state that from today’s point of view it is not possible to assess the appropriateness of the price at time X three years ago, approximately two and a half years ago. That's not even what this is about. The appropriateness of the price at that time, at the time of T nothing was found because none of the allowable methods for verifying the price were chosen. Someone agreed on a price, excuse me, over the finger, in mind, as we say in the jargon, no procedure to determine the market price then at the time of sale or at the time of the agreement. And such claims that some of us are trying to question the price, at least as far as I'm concerned, from today's point of view, do not hold.Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u147	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the first amendment? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the groups of Members: SDS and NSI to the second and third decisions. I'm opening an application for discussion. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u148	Members of the ruling coalition! I suggest you collect 60 votes and amend the Constitution and abolish the Court of Auditors. The proposal for a decision proposing that the National Assembly find that the Court of Auditors has not found anything, although this has been clearly established, is to evaluate the work of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has no doubt found that the Court did not recover the highest purchase for Mercator’s shares, even though the aim was to reach the highest possible purchase. 60 votes, change the Constitution, then accept such conclusions! This decision is, at least, unconstitutional. And I propose, President, that before deciding on this decision, you obtain an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service on the competence of the National Assembly to adopt this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u149	Mr. Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. If the third decision, which is an integral part of the first amendment, is ignored by the Court of Auditors, then this fourth decision, which is an amendment to Articles 2 and 3, is even worse. Firstly, it is not correct that the Court of Auditors has not initiated any proceedings. Once again, I have the feeling that some have only read a summary on the page and a half. If we read the audit report, we would know that it has been waived to the public prosecutor's office - I hope we know which institution it is. That is, at least what is said here is not true. However, there is also an inappropriate explanation that the Court of Auditors was based on its assumptions that they did not carry out the Court and the Court's activities to verify other potential investors. That's not an assumption, that's a fact! These tasks, which they were obliged to do in the process of determining the right price, were abandoned, whether done or not, and were obliged to do so. They also knowingly abandoned the verification of the total sales, since it would then have to be calculated, cashed, excuse the expression, premium. And of course, such an explanation, not only is it in some way a direct attack on the Court of Auditors, is unworthy, untrue and unacceptable. And I don't think a decision like that, in such a text and with such an explanation, can be made through the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u151	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can only see one hand left. Mr. Squeakle, I don't know how much longer you've got. Not much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u152	We have enough time to tell the Slovenian public again when the Court of Auditors does not issue an opinion or when it has to black out half of the text in its opinion, then the opacity is very high. And I hope that the public prosecutors will take this to their own lap. Of course, I don't believe it will be during Mrs. Brezigareva's time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u153	Thank you. This concludes the debate. The amendments and conclusions will be decided in full in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 20th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. The agenda item - Discussion on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrey Bauk, to Mr. Peace's business question Friday in connection with the work of the Lighting and Management Society. At its 36th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response submitted by the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to the question of Mr Mir Petk, on the functioning of the Consulting and Conduct Society. I give the floor to Mr Mir Petk for an additional explanation. Here you go, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! At the previous 36th meeting of the National Assembly on 28 February, the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, answered my question at the 35th meeting of the National Assembly on 28 January 2008. The question referred to the work of Srd, or his successor to DSU, the consulting and management company. The question touched on the sale of Lesna Lip Slovenj Gradec, which was purchased from Srd by Ilirik Fintrade, who did not buy it for herself, but for Prevent Global. Since the end of last year information about the intended sale of one of the former companies Lesne, this is the Iverboard Factory - Otiški vrh, there have also been public concerns as to how it is possible that Prevent Global sells the Forest Iverboard Factory - Otiški vrh, without having previously fulfilled all the obligations imposed by the contract for the purchase of companies from the Lesna system. My question was also aimed at a broader level. This is: the extent to which the Srd or its predecessor and successor have monitored the implementation of the provisions that have been entered into the contract and the extent to which the Government, as the founder of the Development Fund, later the Srd and finally the DSU, has monitored the functioning of these companies. Dr. Bajuk explained in his reply the details of this sale and the contract. In this contract Ilirik Fintrade d.o.o. undertake to invest in companies subject to the contract in the coming years for the purposes of ecology, for the modernisation of production and for social programmes. According to the contract, Ilirik Fintrade d.o.o. to report, at the invitation of the company's Slovenian Development, on the performance of its obligations. The contract also provides, it is found that the buyer does not fulfil its obligations, the seller has the right to claim the amount of unenforced investments. Since all the powers of the Slovenian development company in the area of property transformation have been transferred to the DSU, the DSU has also taken control of the implementation of these provisions under this Treaty. Ilirik Fintrade did not report to DSU in writing on the implementation of its obligations under this contract. This company today explains that they only participated in the sale as a financial intermediary by order and for the account of the final acquirer, that is, Prevent Global d.d., and that all rights and obligations under this contract were transferred to them or upon their order to Prevent Les. And what is interesting and also stressed by Minister Bajuk, Srd, as a seller, did not give consent to the transfer of these contractual rights and obligations, nor did Ilirik Fintrade require it. Since such agreement has not been given, the transfer of obligations is without legal effect. When we follow the history of the Development Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and later the Slovenian Development Company DSU, perhaps the Privatisation Agency, we can identify positive points. The Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Development financed economic restructuring programmes and the promotion of economic development. The Fund was an actor in the property transformation and privatisation and financing of investments. This was necessary after the loss of Yugoslav markets and due to the excessive indebtedness of some companies. Thus, these companies gained time to redirect exports, and the state offered various forms of management and control aid for recovery so that the rehabilitated companies could finally become private property. Of course, the history of the fund, or Srd, also has its dark walls. During this time, a number of audit reports were produced on the accounts of the Slovenian Development Company. From the first audit of the Court of Auditors to the last, it can be concluded that on some errors, the various managers and supervisors of the Fund or the Srd have learned nothing or were not willing or genuine interest or perhaps even a third one. The dark wages of these events are even more so in the Word. The transition period, which coincided with the work of the Fund and the Srd, also required some human lives. For example, individuals who were in one way or another in a professional relationship with the Fund or the Srd were killed or were self - centered because of this or personal distress. I think it is good that we also talk at the plenary session of the National Assembly about the positive contributions made by Slade for Development or Srd to discuss the future of the DSU. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u155	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u156	President, at least at the beginning of my procedural proposal, allow me first to congratulate Member Mir Petk on the correct question raised and, of course, the complementary explanation of the applicant. I congratulate him for having succeeded in attracting the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly after eight hours. Look, we had two agendas. Since the government was announced by the President, a question for you [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u157	Procedural proposal, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u158	I'll explain. [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me. [[...]] We had two important points. For eight hours we discussed the report of Soda and Kad, Mercator. The government has been notified, the government has ignored us. Mr. Andrej Bajuk is in front of us now. It says here who should speak and answer the question. I must say that the President, if you do not think that this is demeaning to the National Assembly, I must, of course, point out this as an opposition Member. I'm asking the coalition entirely if it's still a democracy. I agree that Mr Miro Petek is entitled to the reply of Minister Bajuk. However, I propose that the opposite applies. Otherwise, we have double criteria and congratulations to Mr Shirtz, who has become Dr Andrej Bajuk today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u159	This is not a procedural proposal. It was an abuse of the rules of procedure. I give my word to the representative of the government, Mr. Shirtzl. Please. Mr. Shircel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members. Allow me to begin with a framework, a legal framework in which various companies participated: the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and the companies that came after it. The Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Development was established in accordance with the Law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Development in 1990. In doing so, the main activities of the Fund were first the property transformation of enterprises and the privatisation and financing of investments. In 1997, the Slovenian Development Company Act and the restructuring programmes of the Enterprise Development Fund transformed itself into a Slovenian Development Society. The consulting and management company, DSU d.o.o., was established by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and not Srd. The DSU was set up to carry out the liquidation of the Word. On the basis of the Law on the Transfer of Powers, Rights and Obligations of the Slovenian Development Company and the termination of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Restructuring and Privatisation, the DSU completed its tasks in the area of property transformation, privatisation and denationalisation and related assets. The DSU is thus not the legal successor of the Slovenian Development Company in the work relating to rehabilitation and restructuring, but only in the work relating to the area of property transformation of social property, privatisation and denationalisation. Since 2004 the DSU has no more loans. This is now given by the Ministry of Economy, which is in line with European regulation. However, the scope of these loans is decreasing and has fallen over the last period below one percent of the gross social product and investment in R & D is increasing. A liquidation procedure has been introduced above the DSU to accelerate the exercise of public powers under the law and this objective has been achieved, as is also evident from the report on the completion of liquidation. Following the closure of the liquidation procedure, the DSU extended its activity by providing property for the country, which is also in practice in other European Union countries. Allow me some more information about the company Lesna, which sold its subsidiaries in 2001. Illyrik Fintrade’s buyer undertook to invest additional funds in the company in the contract, which was why the purchase was lower during that period. The buyer then immediately sold this investment to the buyer Prevent, and the content of the contract between Ilirik Fintrade and Prevent is unknown in this case. The following claims were transferred in 2004, namely Lesna Lip, where six claims were valued at 0 tolar, totalling 3.73 billion tolars. Wood Type d.d. Schengen, also valued at 0 tolar, potential claim for a given guarantee DO Lesne Type d.d. A Schengen area of 121.46 million tolars, by Srd d.d. issued to the Environmental Development Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, Lesna TP Prevalje d.d.’s claim was evaluated. also at 0 tolars and potential claim d.d. Wood TP Memory d.o.o. in the amount of 59,13 million tolars. I'm still talking in tolars, given that, of course, the money unit was tolar back then. On the basis of this information, it can also be concluded that the DSU has exercised control over the enforcement of the obligations under the sales contract [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Wood, which was concluded by the Slovenian Development Society in the course of the property transformation process. DSU is thus consistently concerned with the implementation of the contracts and, in the case of non-execution of contracts, proposes measures necessary to ensure that DSU achieves its objectives as set out in the development acts and which are, of course, also supervised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u161	Thank you. Mrs Pečanova, first of all, is a procedural proposal. [[She's not here.]] He's quitting. Do you have another procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u162	President, my procedural proposal is as follows. Please note that, contrary to the content of the agenda item, the discussion on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, to Mr. Mir Petk's question about the functioning of the Consulting and Management Society, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has abused the Rules of Procedure, as the answer was given by someone other than Dr. Andrej Bajuk, although the Minister of Andrej Bajuk is mentioned here. Explain to me what article of the Rules of Procedure here Mr Šircelj answered an additional question and answered it on behalf of Dr Andrej Bajuk, where only ministers can answer the questions. Please explain this, because otherwise I must say that I do not understand what we should be talking about here with Mr Bayuk. Mr. Bajuk is not here. Mr Miro Petek, however, has achieved that the point has been voted on, but this is no longer a serious debate in the National Assembly. Imagine interpelling Dr. Bajuk, and this is where Mr. Shircelj would sit. I think that this is a substantive misstatement and that, of course, you have made a mistake here, in my opinion, and so please explain this in accordance with what provisions of the Rules of Procedure may someone who is not a minister, unless something has happened on April 1st, here is the explanation and answers the question addressed to the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u163	I am sorry that after more than three years I have to explain the Rules of Procedure to a Member. And again, it was not a procedural proposal, but nevertheless, Mr. Squeakl. Article 235 states: "In the case of absence or detention, the Secretary of State may replace the Minister." On a daily basis [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Please! Quiet! There is no question on the agenda and I will not be able to ask any new questions on this subject, but the point of discussion is the Minister's reply, the minister has already given the answer, you have it in the magnetogram. I think it's quite right that we continue with this point. The Minister does not have to come to the meeting either, but he has asked the Secretary of State to come here on his behalf. I thank him for coming. Please continue in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr Squeakl. Once again, there is no point in asking questions to Minister Bajuk. That was last week. It's a debate about his answer you have in your magnetogram. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Drofenik has the floor. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Drofenik, if you'll excuse me. You will first ask a question. I don't allow it. The Rules of Procedure have been abused twice. I am obliged to prevent the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. First, make a procedural proposal and then you'll explain it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u164	The Honorable President. What you're doing right now is wrong. Therefore, the Slovenian National Party's Group will not participate in this point. I'm predicting obstruction. What you have allowed yourself today is not the correct explanation, and also this National Assembly has elected and elected and confirmed this Minister, who is non-chalantly treating us. You should be here today because that's how it was meant to be. And since he's gone and you think he's a good secretary of state for us, we're not going to be involved in this. But it's a kind of nonchalant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u165	Thank you. Okay. Obviously you don't understand the Rules of Procedure either, I'm sorry, after all these years. Mr. Trofenik, Drofenik, please, you have the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u166	Honourable Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. Mr Petk's question, which we are discussing today, was very specific, and he was interested in the intended sale of Lesna TIP Otiški vrhd.d Minister of Finance Dr Andrej Bajuk gave a rather comprehensive answer, with which we are generally pleased in the SLS Group, because we did not support the debate in the vote itself. In this position, however, I would briefly touch on Mr Petk's claims in his question that the Consulting and Conduct Society acts as a bad host and does not control the implementation of contracts. As can be seen from Minister Bajuk's response, this is not true. DSU was created as the successor to the termination of the Slovenian Development Company, with a real SRD contribution. With the implementation of the Law on the Transfer of Powers, the DSU has thus become the universal successor of the SRD only in the area of the property transformation of social property, privatisation, denationalisation and related assets and all SRD obligations. Accordingly, in the case of the intended sale of Lesna Otiški vrh, in accordance with the contract concluded between SRD and Ilirik Fintrade, the D-response also responded appropriately. S.U. and Ilirik Fintrade are still running according to our known information and the sale is now stopped. Therefore, in particular for this case, we cannot claim what Member Friday tried to say in its question, this is bad and uneconomic behaviour D. S.U. D. S.U. in this mandate and with current guidance, according to known information, works professionally and legally and we believe, also economically. Unfortunately, this cannot be said for some of the restructuring and rehabilitation cases of companies that took place under previous leadership, the predecessors of the Consulting and Management Society. But let's keep this part of the debate going. So let me conclude, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we trust and trust the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrei Bajuk and Director D. S.U., mag. Roast Rosich, yes, D. The S.U. is consistently concerned with the implementation of contracts to report regularly to the Ministry on the implementation of these contracts, to propose appropriate measures in the event of non-execution of contracts and also to conduct infringement proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Lipa Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President! I'll start with words, but it's possible. However, it is possible for us to have an extensive debate over a point in asking questions to ministers within four or three and a half years of the composition of this Parliament. I stress, asking questions to the ministers of this government! These questions were not put to anyone, but to ministers, not secretary of state, not director of the Directorate, but to ministers. And in this respect, dear colleague Friday, no matter what customer you come from, sincere congratulations! You're the only one who did it. What we're trying to do, I'm sorry, two so far has worked. But seriously, this is almost for the National Assembly award, as I have once procedurally proposed to Mr Grimes, but seriously. Interesting story, certainly Koroška region, sale of Lesna or intended sale of Lesna TIP Otiško vrh. Interesting story in this direction is that today we do not have a minister of Bayuk who can answer what reports someone has sent him. Reports on whether there are actually irregularities or there are no irregularities. Today, too, we do not have Minister Bajuk who can tell us whether Prevent Global has settled all obligations or not. True, I'll say pleasures worth caring for 200 people and 1200 small shareholders. At the same time, however, it is an interesting story when MEPs of Lipa have proposed nothing more than similar stories of some other companies that are not in government Koroška, but somewhere else, say at the Sweet Summit, Paloma. It's a debate. My friend Friday, you voted against it, and it's not 200 employees, it's 1,000 employees. This is 70.94% of state property in this society. That's when you voted against it. Are we Members, no matter where we come from, so narrowly focused that we care only for our own pocket, for our own place? I have a vote on the table. Regardless of society, whether it was the Court, Kad, SRD, DSU, whoever did this injustice, we should discuss it. Comrade Friday, what do you attribute to your happiness that we are discussing in a society located in your area today? I don't know, Mr Drofenik, but we're not discussing this in my place. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Thank you for your interim comments, my dear colleague Pukšič. [[...]] This also points to your culture, authority and influence. I wonder why you attribute this power to discuss this society? I'm not saying it's probably been very wrongly done, very unfairly, very guilty by the Ministry of Finance, either by the previous government, or by the government representing the Republic of Slovenia today. But this issue, when your government took over the function of running this country, could have been resolved by now. Your influence is probably the same as ours. Opposable. We can drill microphones, but there's nothing we can do. Because discipline in this government is terrible to respect. Today, when we discuss the Forest Tip Otiski Vrh and about 200 employees who are supposed to end up on the road and 1,200 small shareholders, we can argue, as I heard in the explanation of the voice or in the presentation of the Government's position with a magnetogram. If the purpose of the point for which it is envisaged is to have almost three hours of debate over the fact that Members will argue with the magnetogram, I think it is too much. At least with whom we should argue, it would be Minister Bajuk. Like the one who runs the government today. No matter what he inherited, no matter what he got. He is the one with whom Members as representatives of the people today should debate. He probably doesn't have time for us. He's got bigger responsibilities in Europe, I don't know where he is. But he's probably got responsibilities. Despite the fact that the company you proposed the enlarged debate must have been in trouble. She must have been doing something wrong selling this company. But I cannot believe, even though I am trying to believe that the Ministry of Finance, proposed by this Government, did not find this in three and a half years and had to be pointed out by Ambassador Miro Petek. With all due respect, that's what you've been alerting me to. It's the same way you warned me. But we have a lousy finance department to find out in just three and a half years? Despite the fact that she inherited all the piggybacks, in nicknames, from the previous government. But it wasn't able to figure it out, so it's terrible, I'm very glad that you're also seeing the members of the government coalition, but I'll tell you one thing. Members of the Lip Group do not intend to argue with a magnetogram, this is what you can do by representatives of the government coalition, so at this point we have failed to do so, once again with all due respect, you have managed to cause an extensive debate for your place, and I have not been able to do so in about forty-four attempts, nor have I had your support. You seem to be working locally and not globally, despite being a Member of Parliament. We are not going to participate and we are predicting obstruction of this item of the agenda in the fight with the magnetogram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u169	Thank you, I am sorry that Mr Zagorac, on behalf of the Lipa Group, is leaving the Chamber, but we continue with the meeting, Mr Miro Petek, who will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u170	Thank you very much. My thanks to my colleague Zagorec for voting in favour of my proposal, I do work locally, but I think globally. From the SRD report or D. S.U., who were coming to the National Assembly, certainly does not show excessive deviations in the work of the SRD in the past. They provide quite dry data and, of course, also point to certain problems. However, the Court of Auditors’ audit reports, the Court of Auditors has not been highlighted and underlined in today’s debates, but these reports of the Court of Auditors have been more profound, have pointed to actual deviations in operation, but the findings of the Court of Auditors have only rarely been taken into consideration, so obviously there was no real will, neither in the case of those who supervised the work of the Slovenian Development Society nor in the SRD’s own management, since they would have reacted to all these irregularities and would not have been repeated as a rare thread over the years. The audit of the Court of Auditors in the SRD was set at 11 and 1 in 1999 and was issued in 2005. When reading and listing audit reports in detail, we can come across very interesting findings. In its findings, the Court of Auditors finds that many purchases were made in the sale of shares below the originally estimated fair market value. Here it would be interesting to find out who in the past these gifts were given so that SRD companies could buy under such favourable conditions. Many times in the proposal for the sale of shares and claims were not given the reasons for the sale and the objectives of the sale, although project managers should do so. Many project leaders have remained in memory as a proud gentleman who has gone here and there to what company on the outskirts of Slovenia and has decided the fate of the multitude of employees in these companies that have been under the SRD. The Court of Auditors notes in its reports that the documentation of individual projects is extremely unregulated. In addition, there were no internal instructions for regulating the dossier. The editing of the individual documentation was dependent on the project manager. Of course, this unregulated documentation made it possible to operate in a transparent manner, to operate in a opaque manner, and probably to end up selling these companies in a opaque manner. The management, as determined by the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia, used the criteria to assess performance. This was made up by the management itself because the supervisory board did not discuss these actions and decided at any of its meetings. Or it may have been a silent landing from the supervisors that the performance criteria could be handled domestically and manipulated. The Court of Auditors was not provided by the SRD with all the information requested by the Court of Auditors. Either they didn't have them, that's one question, or the data was so burdensome for someone that it was better to hide them or hide them. During the period under review, the calculation of performance indicators was not designed to contain all data on all SRD funds invested in individual undertakings. The company’s performance analysis or performance calculations exempt those companies that went bankrupt or were sold. The Court of Auditors notes that in its business reports, the SRD did not analyse the reasons why some companies went bankrupt or analysed the situation in which an undertaking was found. Nor did the SRD analyse the situation of the company after they sold it, although for the real image of the work and performance of a business, at least a few years should follow the situation in the companies sold, I quote the Court of Auditors' findings. The SRD did not monitor the implementation of the contract concluded between the SRD and the buyer of the individual company, which also happened in the case of Lesna, but of course this is not the only case. In many companies, which were in the framework of the SRD, and so largely in state ownership, administrations paid higher salaries than was stipulated by the Government's decision. The government has limited wages of 6 times the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia, and in some companies they have also paid 10 times the Slovenian average. The Court of Auditors finds in one of the audits that companies in the SRD portfolio in 1999 did not operate better due to lower costs or increased sales, but rather due to write-offs and adjustments to the value of SRD investments. It would also be difficult to talk about the success of, for example, the sale of investments by the SRD of the Technology Development Fund. Remember, the SRD took over 61 companies from the Technology Development Fund. The analysis of the performance of these companies for 1998 and 1999 has not been carried out at all, has not been produced, and for 2000 and 2001 it shows that 17 companies have been bankrupt or a quarter of them have been bankrupt. Gonila invested more than 1.4 billion tolars in a well-known company of MPP Gonila, while the company had more than 1.5 billion tolls of loss or loss of 9% in five years of business despite these large SRD deposits. The sale that was made was also not indicated in the form of a cash flow but rather as a settlement of the company’s liabilities to Cimos. For example, the Court of Auditors revised the sale of Auto Kočev to Eurocity. The findings are quite interesting. The bidders had only 11 days to submit the offer and the tender did not show that the SRD’s claim to Auto Kočev was also the subject of the sale. The audit showed that the content of the subject-matter in the publication of the invitation to tender was not in accordance with the actual subject-matter of the sale and that such conduct was not in accordance with the provisions of the internal guidelines on the sale of shares. The Court of Auditors finds that no claims have been identified in the SRD. On the basis of the comparison of the purchase price and the book value of the claims, the sales result was negative and the purchase price was 50% lower than the book value of the claims. The audit also assessed the overall impact of the sale of the share and the claims and found that the effect was negative at 524 million tolars at the time. The sales value achieved in Auto Kočevje was 22% below the estimated value of the authorised value. If sales had been made in 1996, and one of the contracts had already been concluded for 70% of the sale of this share, then the SRD could have paid 37% more. With the purchase of the claim, the SRD covered only 14% of all claims against Auto Kočevje. The use of the assets invested by the SRD in Auto Kočevje is three times higher than the actual purchase. The Court of Auditors also requested the SRD to provide evidence of the appointment of a commission to select the best bidder, but the SRD Board did not submit this to the Court of Auditors. They also did not receive a record of the results of the bidding on the basis of the new invitation to tender. And we move on, of course, according to the Court of Auditors reports. The Court of Auditors notes that only one performance criterion has been met in the assessment of many companies involved in recovery projects, which is a reduction in total loss. The number of employees involved in the rehabilitation project decreased during these years mainly due to the natural fluctuation of business exclusion and also due to bankruptcy and business sales. The Court of Auditors shall determine and draw attention to the non-adaptation of the criteria. When it was found that only rarely the company met all four performance criteria, the criteria changed. This, as it is said, has been invented by the administration itself without the knowledge of the oversight councils or the oversight council. As part of the monitoring of business, not all the reasons why an individual company went bankrupt or the reasons for the company's situation at a certain time were analysed. It is not known whether there was no knowledge of such an analysis, or whether there was real will. The Court of Auditors finds that until 19. 2. 2001 The SRD did not have a developed methodology and periodic reporting system, despite the fact that the Supervisory Board had already pointed out this deficiency in 1997. Therefore, for 4 years, the SRD management did not respond to the request of the Supervisory Board to draw up this methodology. One year after the SRD developed this methodology, an SRD liquidation procedure was initiated. Project managers monitored individual projects unevenly, according to their opinion, the project documentation was mostly unregulated and often not accessible to the Court of Auditors. There was no internal regulation within the SRD on project management and documentation regulation. The Court of Auditors notes, interestingly, that the SRD has not established the relevant records of the number of companies and the amounts invested in individual companies that were in the recovery project. This, however, is the basis for an economic society. I mean, we know how much money someone invested in some company. Water procedures have not been documented consistently and, of course, this is a question of whether it is negligence or a conscious activity. The Court of Auditors finds that the SRD did not select the service provider according to the procedures applicable to the award of public contracts. The Court of Auditors finds that the SRD did not provide for sales costs in advance and the project managers did not monitor the effects of the sale. Small-value orders were issued during these years in contravention of regulations. It is also interesting that the SRD could not avoid irregularities, nor during the liquidation process. This one started on the 12th. 9. 2002. The District Court of Ljubljana, however, issued a decision on the annulment on the basis of a legal decision of the Court of Justice on 24. 9. 2004 The liquidation of the SRD was led by the DSU liquidation manager. The audit for the duration of business has shown once again that neither this large SRD final was carried out in a spirit of legality or accounting standards, so the Court of Auditors delivered an opinion with reservation on the SRD’s financial statements. In spite of the requirements of Slovenian accounting standards, the SRD has not produced a final statement of profit and loss, which is why the Court of Auditors has not given an opinion on these statements. The Court of Auditors notes, for example, that the liquidation manager’s costs of EUR 322 million at the time were not recorded in the corresponding accounts of the reserved assets, taking into account the VAT deductible share. The liquidation manager has drawn up the final liquidation balance and is part of the final report of the assets sold. This report, however, does not reflect actual business developments in 2004, but only the business events assessed. In the final balance sheet, the determination of the actual investment is shown at valuation values rather than at the then book value. And of course, there is nothing left for the Court of Auditors but to issue such an opinion, and the finding that the SRD acted contrary to the rules in several cases in liquidation is much more. For example, the fact that public contracts for the renovation of a business facility in Maribor amounting to slightly more than 280 million tolls with VAT and business facility management services was made contrary to public procurement rules. For the business facility management service, payments made by operators during the audit period totalled more than 21 million tolars with VAT. In liquidation, the SRD issued small orders contrary to the rules of a total of 40 million VAT tolars. That's what the Court of Auditors finds. With individual contractors, the SRD had concluded contracts for an indefinite period, which is inconsistent with the Public Procurement Act. The total irregularities in the revised payments amounted to more than 17 million tolars and so on. As it is said, the response report in this case was not necessary because the SRD ceased operations. However, this period is also a phase of the SRD liquidation, indicating that in the SRD they obviously, simply whistled at the legislation or did their very own work, that is to say domestically. As a result, our Group believes that it is right to discuss this at this plenary session as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u172	Thank you for speaking on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, and allow me to express in the introduction a protest regarding the holding of the meeting of the National Assembly, because the debate is about the reply of Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, and, of course, we would expect the Minister to be among us today, so that we can really discuss the answer that he has given to colleague Petk. Thus, it seems to us that such a way of dealing with this issue is incorrect and, above all, is not worthy of Members who wish to clear up these questions or the answers we have received from Minister Bajuk. Even the debate I am hearing so far does not really give me any answers to the part on which the National Assembly decided to hold a debate today. Let me just sum up the conclusion of Minister Bajuk's response to what we have heard from colleague Petk. Minister Bajuk very clearly replied: "Then let me finish. The consulting and management company shall ensure that the contracts are implemented in a consistent manner and shall propose measures in the event of non-execution of contracts." Very clear answer. I would expect you to ask him today what measures D might already be. S.U. suggested, which they did not, but we listen to completely different debates. But in this part, as I say, Minister Bajuk was very clear. However, Mr Petek asked another question, namely: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a decision in this mandate on the regular liquidation of the Slovenian Development Society," otherwise it would have been correct for the Consulting and Management Company, "and then this decision on liquidation has been suspended." And Mr Petek asks the Minister why, on the one hand, what is the cause of the liquidation of the Consulting and Management Society and why the Government has revoked the liquidation decision. The answer of Minister Bajuk was as follows: "What matters is why the liquidation of the Consulting and Management Society has changed, why we have stopped it, because we have imposed this new obligation advice and management company on property in the Republic of Slovenia, and we are solving certain things through this institution." Well, here's where the debate opens about what Minister Bajuk said. What certain matters is handled by the Government through the Consulting and Management Society? And since this is property in the Republic of Slovenia, this is a very important question, to which Minister Bajuk has really responded very poorly at the meeting when it was discussed on the agenda. Let me refresh your memory. The consulting and management company was formally established in 2001. It brings together a number of experts involved in corporate property ownership and privatisation processes and in business restructuring and rehabilitation procedures. Since 17 October 2006, the Advisory and Management Company has been in the process of liquidation. In this mandate, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall, in the role of the Assembly of the Consulting and Management Society at its meeting on 12 July 2007, adopt a decision to suspend the regular liquidation procedure of the Consulting and Management Society and to dismiss the liquidation manager of mags. Uroša Rožič, who is the leader of the company prior to the liquidation process as director. Let me just remind you that this is the Director who has also received a completely overriding loan from the Consulting and Management Society. However, the Supervisory Board then referred to the Director as Mr Uroš Rožič as the Director of the Management Advice Society. First he got rid of him, approved the loan, then reappointed him director. However, the government has imposed a new obligation on this company by decision, but it has not defined this new obligation in any law, it is only the decision of the Government, and I must also point out here that the Consulting and Management Company was established in 2001 as a subsidiary of the Slovenian Development Company in order to execute the liquidation of the Slovenian Development Company and also the liquidation of the Restructuring and Privatisation Agency. These were all basic tasks. Only a decision has been taken by the Government to impose on the Consulting and Management Society a new task which Parliament is not aware of. On all these liquidation procedures, the Act on the delegation of powers, rights and obligations of the Slovenian Development Company and the termination of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Restructuring and Privatisation was adopted. So, by law, we transferred or transferred these powers to the Consulting and Management Society. However, the Government shall impose additional tasks on the Consulting and Management Society by a decision alone. May I also remind you that we have put the Members of the Social Democrats into the procedure of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Funds. There we proposed to move to the property owned by the municipalities, which in the form of walled building plots was managed by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The government rejects this law because it considers the congregations to be bad masters and that they do not belong to the building land, that this is much better if it is managed by the Consulting and Management Society. Thus, according to the Government and the ruling coalition, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia preferred to transfer the building plots to the Consulting and Management Society. Well, what's going on with these walled building plots? Members of the Social Democrats asked Minister Bajuk about this in the context of the 2008 and 2009 budget. We have noted the following facts that in addition to the current budget in Slovenia, a parallel budget is being implemented, which the National Assembly has not adopted by chance and is even less aware of the implementation of these activities. This is about the fact that the Consulting and Management Society builds a general police administration, builds the Ministry of the Interior, builds the Ministry of Education and Sport, builds the Ministry of Health, builds the Ministry of the Environment. All of this is worth hundreds of millions of euros. And the National Assembly does not have any information on this, on what basis the consultancy and execution company can build these facilities for the purposes of the ministries or the Government and the general police administration. And today I expect to receive an answer from Minister of Finance, Dr. Bayuk, to these questions, to which we have not received answers when we discussed the 2008 and 2009 budget. So I ask, on the basis of which statutory provisions the Consulting and Management Society can build all these facilities for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and why is the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia not aware of this? So we are interested in the legal basis and under what conditions is actually a consulting and management company. Of course, we are wondering whether it is not an additional debt to the state budget and whether it is a state budget pass. And if we also point out once again that the consulting and management company itself, beyond the rules, has granted loans to the director of this company, or will not, in this case, come to terms of enormously high amounts, new irregularities within the consulting and performance company, which I stress is owned by the Republic of Slovenia and directly controlled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So I repeat the following questions: Where is the legal basis for this operation of the Consulting and Management Society? And let the real Minister Bajuk answer the question asked by colleague Friday. Why did the government stop the liquidation of the Consulting and Management Company? Why did she give him new assignments? Where she got the legal basis for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Moge will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u174	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Shircelj with the team! Dear Members and Members! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we feel that certain things are going wrong in the National Assembly. Let me tell you something. [[...]] [[background voice]] Mr Jerovšek, if you want to speak, you can come here, only you are not a member of the Liberal Democracy and you have no say and as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, be raised once if you are sitting in this National Assembly. [[...]] Excuse me, Mr. President! Look, ladies and gentlemen! Is the European Parliament in which the majority of the Commissions of Inquiry are in position? For example, we have an investigative commission dealing with property damage, Mercator and others. Who's taking her? Mr. Marinic of the SDS. We have a commission dealing with the prosecution. Who's taking her? Mr. Kovacic, SDS. We've had a weapons commission since 1994. Who's taking them? Mr. Blackach, SDS. However, I can say that the Government has over 34,000 employees on its payroll who, if any of the things were wrong, could have achieved with this apparatus that the perpetrators, as far as certain things were concerned, would have long ago had to appear before the time of justice. But if we look at these small commissions, how many subjects do they have, we have to say we don't have any investigators. The second institute is the Institute, in our opinion, of the questions sent and of the proposals for a discussion of the answers. If I can give you a little bit. In 2005, there were three such proposals because we had just started and one such proposal was adopted. In 2006, there were 70 of them, and one was adopted. In 2007, 82 were accepted. In 2008, there were 31 such proposals this year. One Mr. Friday has been accepted. So there were 186, respected colleagues and colleagues, proposals to discuss the answers. Three have been accepted, and from this day forward we have to answer the question of a colleague from a position. I can assure you, and I can tell you, because I am sitting here quite often among you to assess with us that other proposals for a discussion of answers have been inappropriately more justified, inappropriately better and would bring more prosperity to our country than this today. But from the position we've always got a cold shower, a cold shower, so it's not worth discussing. So we have in the Liberal Democracy somehow because of this view that, in fact, this debate today is essentially the first-class political EPP for a coalition member. That's our opinion. Because these old ones could have been made completely on a different level. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I could say the following. The minister's not here. I understand why he's not here. You're condemning it. However, the Minister has a huge, huge task of suppressing inflation, which has begun to worry not only our country, but also the European Central Bank. The minister has major problems that he will end up saying when we go to the elections, "Slovenia is really relaxed. This is where the honey and the milk are drained. We have European prices, we have European money and we have European wages." Do we have it? We don't have one. He's got a lot on his plate. But despite the fact that the Minister has a lot of concern, I think we are Members, each of us who represent two million citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so valuable, because we have chosen him to come between us to answer us. But if the minister, his esteemed colleagues and colleagues, had an indemnity, it would be good for someone to excuse him here and propose to the minister, I will answer you when I have time. It seems to me that there would be some kind of "modeus vivendi" in some democracy in this country. It seems to me, however, to us to forgive, as if the role of Members of the Assembly and Members of the National Assembly is being widely assessed by the fact that we are needed for the vote and that we are no longer of much importance for the ruling set. As a result of such conduct, as I have stated, it seems to me that the institute used to discuss the answer that the National Assembly, when the Minister was not without an apology, was humiliated, seems to me that the only thing we can do for Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is to say that, because of the contempt we show for such work, we thank you for being able to participate here, but at this point we leave the National Assembly and predict obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u175	Thank you. Well, I do have to say, however, that Mr. Minister apologized for the indemnity of his obligations. Mr Cyril Testen, please, you have the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice welcome to the Ministry! Messengers and Members! The position of the New Slovenia Group regarding the 100%-owned Consulting and Management Company is clear and, in our view, the operation and management are in place properly and in accordance with all the regulations. The consulting and management company shall ensure that the contracts are implemented in a consistent manner and shall propose appropriate measures in the event of non-execution. In view of the requirement to close the liquidation of the Slovenian Development Company as soon as possible and given the fact that no legal relations could be completed in the liquidation process, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of 22. 4. 2004 Act on the transfer of the powers, rights and obligations of the Slovenian Development Company and on the cessation of the operation of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Restructuring and Privatisation. The law regulates the legal consequences of the termination of the operation of the Slovenian Development Company and the Agency and confers certain powers on the Consulting and Management Society. The recognition of the status of a company as a separate company provides the Company with formal professional independence, which is essential for a smooth and reliable work. This has also increased the possibilities and obligations of integration into the domestic and foreign markets. The company operates independently on the Slovenian market and takes its business decisions in accordance with the law and the social contract and according to its business policy. By adopting the Act on the takeover of the powers of the Slovenian Development Company and the Privatisation Agency, the consulting and management company has been given the opportunity to manage assets arising from ownership, privatisation and denationalisation. With regard to the sale of Lesna Lip, which brought together 13 companies, we can express a positive opinion, i.e. companies were without appropriate markets, had major problems with insufficient procurement, indirect production and liquidity problems. Their business was also unprofitable. The most successful was the rehabilitation in the factory of the Iver plates, where the forced settlement saved the bankruptcy and then acted positively. In Holding, they tried to settle old debts with partial investments and finance the necessary investments in equipment modernisation. Finally, in the New Slovenia Group, after reviewing the documentation, we have found that the Consulting and Management Company has exercised control over the performance of the obligations under the sales contract of the three companies Lesna Lip d.d., which was concluded by the Slovenian Development Company in the property transformation process, as well as that the obligations under the contract have been fulfilled. We can also argue that the Company for Consulting and Conduct as a Trustee in still open claims against certain companies Lesne Lip d.d. act with care and implements all necessary measures. Nevertheless, the Public Property Consulting and Management Company is not obliged to report to the Ministry of Finance, but in its reports they represent the results of the implementation, business strategy and the quality of management of its supervisory board. We agree with this way of working in the New Slovenia Group. We agree with this way of working in the New Slovenia Group. We also agree with Mr Weber's proposal that a new Law on Public Funds should be adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u177	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Puksic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, representatives, Secretary of State and co-workers from the Ministry of Finance. Today, in fact, when we talk about the work of the Slovenian Development Society and about the disadvantages that have occurred, we can say that some things have started historically before. In fact, certain things started to happen in the Development Fund itself, there since 1992, after the Fund was established in 1997, when the Slovenian Development Society was established and, of course, since 2002 the Consulting and Management Society. Even the course of today’s session reminds me of some events in the past and the memory of wanting or reluctantly goes far back. Especially when we talk about these irregularities, if one remembers or looks a little bit at who have sat on both boards, boards, boards and so on, both from the fund itself and the Slovenian Development Society, you will find that these are the very known names: Dr. Max Tynikar, mag. Anton Rop, then of course Dragon Method, again mag. Mitya Gaspari and so on. Perhaps it is a bit awkward for some today to be present in this debate because it is political thinkers, not just political thinkers, it is not so important, it is more important that the debate is also at the expense of some who have done much damage in the last decade in the area of debt recovery, poor investment, banks, societies, in the area of public sector rehabilitation, especially larger systems such as those of Elan, such as Smelt, and so on, and as a result, this has also led to great unemployment and problems with regard to the standard and quality of life in our society. I agree that today some people are also warning, and I am also reminding myself of the sometimes pressing problem of the survival of our people with these low wages or in some sectors, but it is still necessary to look, colleagues and colleagues, at the original sin from where it comes from. It comes from this wild privatisation, it comes from this wild property and it comes from this grave place of social property. So today we have a few hundred wealthy Slovenians with a few dozen or hundreds of millions of euros at the expense of someone else, this reallocation of social property has been a criminal offence, and yet this government of all these anomalies, I can say, very ugly matters, cannot fix this in one term. She's done a lot, she's going to be in the next one, but the story isn't that simple. When I'm here in the National Assembly, that's right, the National Assembly is the place where it has to speak publicly and say what needs to be said. When it comes to leadership, I don't know, today this government is clearly led by some investigative commission, yes, my fellow Member Rudy Mogue has been in the coalition more than I have, has always led one of the most receptive investigative commissions, this is a commission on arms and has not come to a final report because he should not have, because his leadership was then ordered, but let's leave this story for another time. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if I have said that it is necessary to deal with this response by Minister Andre Bajuk, because it also says so, the point is that the rules of procedure are such that today's answer to the question raised by the Minister may be heard by anyone or authorized by the Minister, by the Rules of Procedure, by the Secretary of State and so on. But look, colleagues and colleagues, not only that we are wrong or that the opposition is wrong that there is no minister here today, even more, precisely those who warn about this today have been in eclectic violation of the rules of procedure of the Commission of Inquiry, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Law of the Commission of Inquiry, when they voted in 2000 that no report of the Commission of Inquiry on the damage to social property in the National Assembly will be considered. Although it is decidedly stated in Article 23 of this Rules of Procedure that the Commission of Inquiry must submit a progress report and findings to the National Assembly in due time and at the latest for consideration at the last meeting of the National Assembly. Against this, when the Commission submitted this, the Members, who are Members of Parliament today, Pecé Sasha, Potrč Mirán, Terčon Davorin, Kontič Bojan, Yuri Aurelio and so on, voted against it, and they would like to remind us today of something that is not true. What has been pointed out, however, is not true that today we are discussing the Minister's response to the report. Well, because it's possible, I don't know, the case today that Elan's leadership has dropped out, so the third time we actually get one of those parade horses like Elan, that's the third time in this short Slovenian history we're getting it back on death row because it's supposed to be back in "total bull". But I'm sure it wasn't because of the workers who work there, that it wasn't because of the markets they would reject, because it wasn't true, but it obviously had to smell a lot again, and a lot of places had to happen in this Elan. But, colleagues and colleagues, there is a foundation for that, too. You know on what grounds you're gonna build a house, that's how it's gonna stand. Either the storms won't crush her or the little pee will take her away. And in this democracy of ours, which is short, our country is young, of course a lot of it has taken away a little writing. But you write a small letter because the problem was right about the foundation, because we are not - or even those Members I spoke about earlier could not stand up for them when we should. In the old, you will say that everything is old, in the old Yugoslav Penal Code or in the Code of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia was written in 146th Article, that for the falsification or destruction of the business charter the same and that is punishable by imprisonment from 3 months to 5 years. As a result, such an article had punishment for the destruction of business documents over five years from the service of the crime, which meant an absolute obsolescence, as you know, twice. That means ten years. And see, since this development fund was established in 1992 and then the Slovenian Development Society, and since even in Elan in those years, it was not found, from 1090 to 1993, that 29 complaints were even filed, 29 complaints. Not only were the charges filed, the charges were made, the people were convicted. But look, at the time the political boors here are those people, who are also today one of the rich on this Slovenian scene, who have changed the Slovenian or Yugoslav law on the penal code of the Republic of Slovenia in the year, that's 1. 1. Article 240 provides for the same punishment, falsification or destruction of a business charter, i.e. by the same title in Article 240, that it shall be punishable by imprisonment for up to two years. It's been there for up to five years, and it's here for up to two years. This was a consequence, and here I see the original sin that the statute of limitations in 111th Article moved from fourth to fifth, which had three years of this obsolete prosecution, of course, times two, was six years. As a result, all those convicted in 1994 were released in 1995, Uroš Aljančič and Pavel Koder. So the stains on their souls and sins for hundreds of millions of euros were erased. They were convicted and therefore, fellow Members of the then United List, who accepted this and agreed to it, voted in favour of these irregularities. And here is the mother of all this corruption or most of the corruption that has taken place. Even more, even worse things have happened during this time. You can imagine that the investigative commission filed a complaint against the then Judge Šubic, who did not write this judgment. The State's Attorney's Office ruled on this complaint made by the Commission of Inquiry. And the state's attorney in Ljubljana sent this to the State Attorney's Office in Novo Mesto. The State Prosecutor in Novi Grad decided, therefore, whether or not she would be tried in court by an investigative committee of the National Assembly on Judge Šubica, who had not written the judgment for nine months. But he obviously did not, because then the legislation changed, this prosecutor wrote: "But I appreciate that such a search for data would represent," now listen well, "a very slippery area." You can imagine, the D.A. writes that searching for information about a judge who didn't write a lawsuit for nine months, the deadline is 15 days, even being the perpetrator of the duty of a Cranian court. We could focus on a very slippery area that could stimulate responses, and perhaps even more. So, it would point to a leading policy, a political party, a policy in this political party, and it would enrich the knowledge of who stole this social property. And today they're talking about inflation growth and today they're talking about workers having low wages. True, but the generator of this, colleagues and colleagues, exists not in the takeover of Janša's government, but there has been since the beginning of the ownership of our social property. It would certainly be necessary, and so on, to do various hearings that would lead to a very slippery area. This is an official document signed by District Attorney Niko Bricelj. And then today my fellow Member is talking about thousands of irregularities, what this government has not done and what this government should do. The foundations of these irregularities exist far back. Why did we not then consider, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the reports of the Commission of Inquiry on damage to social property? Obviously not because of the fear of fellow Members belonging to certain groups, however, today they also appear in any other connection, because at that time in the damage to social property we made it clear that certain things had to be done, that Judge Šubic did not write after the judgment had been declared, but only after eight months did this prosecution against Paul Kodra and Uroš Aljančič. We also made it clear here that the law enforcement authorities must seize all the files that Paul Koder took from Elan. Why am I talking about this? Because of the fact that the Ministry of the Interior, Minister Borut Shuklje then reported to the Commission the following about Paul Kodr, the business documentation relating to Elan’s foreign exchange operations took him away, so the criminal police found that he had taken the documentation abroad on 9 May. We have written here in our conclusions that all the documentation of Paul Kodra, which he took abroad, must be returned. There hasn't been any of this documentation until today. Obviously, all the tracks and paths have been lost after so many years. And yet it must be said that the bitter taste of this remains and remains our citizens and citizens. If I recall just another very loud case such as this, it is also the adoption of a law, led by even the Minister of the United Nations, the Minister of Education, the Law on the Recovery of the Economic Situation There. Well, I just think it's now clear to everyone that the darkness is no longer that it's a burning place, that it's all gone down, that it's gone so much and so many thousands of people on the road, that it's also making it very difficult for many people today to survive and survive through life, when, as it were, they stole over twelve million euros of money from the state budget and distributed it by various agents and so on, even written in law. When we talk about this issue today, of course, the question arises in itself. Injurers such as those there have now taken over the persecution of Ljubljana’s financial society from the Orion affair. Even senior state prosecutor Boštjan Penko found that there was nothing wrong, only people were left without everything, people were professionally misled and again, of course, hundreds of problems, problems and so on. You know, colleagues and colleagues, MPs in the National Assembly, as long as I'm here, I'm going to point out the irregularities, whether it's in a government like this or not, whether it's Squeak's minister or any other, I've never run away from any responsibility and I've looked the truth in the eye and I've told the beans. And since I said so at the time, the court warned me about the pigs, Šubič's bastard who didn't write the verdict, all the documents still exist today, convicted me, and in the final composition of the Constitutional Court. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u179	Do you allow me to speak? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u180	Yeah, I still have the chairman. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u181	If you'll allow me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u182	I'll finish it, I'll finish it in the next two minutes, and you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u183	But I'll tell you anyway, you know. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u184	Then go ahead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u185	I'm the chairman. I would like to ask and I believe that Mr Petek has asked exactly the question of the Member State to which Minister Bajuk has also answered, and please, if there is a debate today, not everything else. Because that's how we can continue until tomorrow. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u186	Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to continue, and I have also promised you that I will be done in the next two minutes. But in view of all that has been said and even the nominal names of some Members, it has been absolutely necessary, and you will probably agree with me that it is necessary to know and know history if we are to work for the well-being of today. It is therefore right that we speak about the history, the mess and the place that the former governments have done in the last 12 years. I'm going to end up with what I wanted to end up with. To warn and to warn of irregularities as long as I have the mandate of these citizens and citizens. And, of course, to conclude that I had pointed out all these pigs and I was the only one in this social, property damage as the President of the parliamentary commission of inquiry convicted, paid 1,700,000 tolars, complained to the Supreme Court and then to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court found that I had not been violated by human rights. This was the conclusion of the work of this Constitutional Court. Let's keep them alive. But I'm sure my warnings were fair, they were based on arguments, they were based on the testimony of the people who had experienced these pigs. I will also point to such irregularities in the future. Colleagues and colleagues, much damage has been done due to the amendment of certain legislation that has taken place. As I said at the beginning, it's hard to fix everything in four years, we'll be much more in eight. If we're 20% now, we'll be in the next four 80%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u187	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. I must say that today we are discussing the embezzlement of employees, small workers on the basis of a contract signed by the SRD, the Slovenian Development Society, 23. 1. 2001 We know which government then ruled, who were then in the SRD's supervisory council, etc. And I'm not surprised because I was a five-year-old company manager myself, a technical director who owned the SRD and had traumatic experiences with the SRD. To that end, of course, I would like to congratulate my colleague Mir Petk on the fact that, at least in some way, the moral satisfaction of these defrauded workers has raised here the question of the Member States and today's debate on the basis of the Institute of Widespread Debate. Of course, it is unheard of that they do not want to discuss, they do not want to hear, they do not want to hear and they do not want to know and talk about the abuse of workers. This is a disgrace to the Members and is a disgrace to the entire National Assembly. This isn't about another political issue. And I understand my colleagues from LDS or Really, who are from the same nest, that they don't want to talk about it, because their government is behind it all. Many members were senior representatives of the SRD supervisory councils, Tone Rop. So I'm surprised if Mr. Squeakl wasn't in any period, because he went otherwise to the control councils, etc. That is why I agree with the previous remark, while he has been involved, Mr Mojet, that something is wrong in this National Assembly. And I also responded immediately with a call, of course it is wrong that the opposition does not want to take part in such a debate, in such a defamation. I must say that Mr President, who presided earlier, should point out that Mr Mohet was being misbehaved. He is not responsible for warning Members from the floor, in my case I have launched a normal call and this is everywhere in the European Parliaments of interlocutors, something normal and needed to be triggered at that time. And something is also wrong with these customers, who, at the wrong time, at the wrong time, at the wrong time, at the cheating, at the cheating, at the wild property that is happening at the time, do not want to participate. Such parties are not normal customers. And such parties say they would like to win the next election! Then where will Slovenian workers lead if they win if they seduce Slovenian voters to give them a vote! What's gonna happen? Then they'll be waiting for the hangers, probably the workers. Today they don't want to discuss the swindled, then they'll probably get rid of them. See, we are discussing the period in the Slovenian Development Society, which is marked by a number of mistreatments. Of course, such a debate is also necessary because we are under constant pressure. Never is a situation so clean that itchyness on the part of someone to make irregularities, even when it comes to money or social power. And this is about money. What is the story of Lesna, the Factory of Iversity, such stories are great in the history of the Slovenian Development Society. They sold and then did not properly worry that the obligations of the contract would be fulfilled so that those who were employed there, who were small shareholders, would actually have something to do with it. This has been resold without any commitments transferred. And these are classic stories. Let me say that in the early 1990s until 1996, when the strong people in the SRD were here, so the director of Korza, who later went to Elan, made a deal with Skimar, and I know that we discussed here years ago where he wrote the annual award, I think over a million 200 thousand marks. That's what he's suing for right now. The annual award, just the annual award! And in the then report on the functioning of the Slovenian Development Society there were such smaller awards. Also, the director of one company, which was based on the burning of the Moroccan Dark, now I don't remember the name, is something similar - gentlemen have made a deal. They made a huge loss there, but the director paid himself a big reward. And at the expense of the workers, at the expense of the citizens, at the expense of the taxpayers, unfortunately, under the government of Liberal Democracy, we know who was in the government at the time, a lot of things. And I'm not surprised. Like I said, I've had traumatic experiences. The SRD-owned manager did not do well to fight for workers, to fight for the development of the company, to fight for honesty and for transparent business. I led a team that saved the company or developed a new product that it put into production. In the first year, then fifteen, seventeen years ago, they made 27 million gross products. And that was a crazy success. And of course, in that company, wider, some felt that this was an opportunity and the SRD agreed to bring in capital for recapitalisation and the money would remain in the company. But only in the end did we see that we would recapitalize with technology that's been in the company we've developed for years. And I resisted it. It was a catastrophic abomination, for the then 10 million marks. I was practically shocked. The gentlemen who were present at the time are extremely wealthy today. Nothing happened. And then once again they wanted to sell the same company, even though I was disgusted, I realized it was wild property again. Prior to that, the SRD decided that it would not give the highest bidder, but to the other, who had given a few million marks less. And there was a fraud in the back. And when they realized that Jerovská could not buy that he would not agree to wild things, he was from SRD Milan Cerar in many control councils, he was a congregation and a supervisory council. All in one person. And I asked him, I looked him in the eye, and I said, "Mr. Cerar, you're making a move with leadership, you're going to put me as a technical director among overworkers?" He denied. Two days later, I was technologically superior as a technical director. But these gentlemen have prospered. They may prosper today. And these are major irregularities that such people don't lose their jobs overnight, but that they live on the workers. I must say that the SRD from that period of the liberal government is largely responsible for the considerable extent of the tycoonisation of Slovenia. Many Slovenian tycoons have also produced there and with irregularities, places that you have allowed and then covered themselves with such a chain of sales, to lose track of those who should have contractual obligations. The second is that the price has been constantly falling, so that it will not survive. And look, today you have to ask yourself. Many companies that were then owned now operate perfectly with exceptional profits, owners are extremely successful, with the same workers, the same developers, with the same honest workers. Isn't it clear in itself that at the time someone was deliberately hiding the money? I was also a witness when the managers told me that we had to look for weaknesses when the buyer came, criticise our own company, that the price would be low because they had a straw buyer in the background. And later, when I left the company, when I was technologically high, when I had to go and become an MP, I saw, but they sold this company anyway. I am sure that they sold it to straw owners, that some of those who successfully prevented them from selling at fair prices or anything, are probably among the owners of this company today. Such a story from the Otis Summit, where I firmly believe that we will do very hard for these workers but at least warn the Slovenian public that what was done was that not all rich people are rich because of their work, their knowledge, their efforts. Many of these are now considered genius in Slovenian society. They have access to all media, they're protected by most media. And when a little worker says, you stole, they say, it's not true. And they're gonna put him in jail. And that is the purpose of this debate today. And this debate does not want to be attended by the opposition. They don't hurt the fate of small people. They'd still be drinking blood to little people today. Even today, they are willing to do their utmost to make the most of their relationships in the part where they are still state property, and they are waiting for the spoils, trying to get in power to sell what is left as blood at the expense of the workers. And that's what I'll always be up against. Here it would be possible to talk about the stories that we have already discussed here in these reports. But I say today, not just the SRD, but other systems at the time of the LDS were consciously set up like this. Managers in these companies are not responsible for all of this because they were asked to work through by pass. They were ordered. However, they had to be dedicated to managers, not all managers, but dedicated men were ordered that income should be hidden outside or through by passports. And in this way we made more caste in Slovenia. One caste of the richest had to go through [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] For which she did nothing and with that money she could also bribe and bribe in Slovenia. [[...]] And against bribery, no authority is immune. And I'm sure you also have people like that at different levels. And that's why we need to talk publicly about the teasing of people, about the embezzlement of workers. The more public you speak, the more the opposition will avoid. Until the election, let's get out of here! Let them show the people what they are, what they do not want to discuss! They don't want to discuss what was taken from the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u189	Mr. Mag. Squeak, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u190	I'll explain my procedural proposal. Of course, I propose that we decide, whether it is April 1st or whether we will have a public hearing with psychiatrists or we will discuss the agenda. At the very least, what I propose is to change the title of the agenda item, which is no longer a debate on the response of the Minister of Finance, but is a debate on the Slovenian Development Society. But let me tell you, it's time to start in Demos' time. Demos has passed the law on if you want [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u191	Mr. Mag. Squeak, please make a suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u192	My proposal is whether you are holding a meeting to discuss the Minister's response, or whether you can tell all Members that we can talk about the whole process of transition, which began with the decisions of the Demos Coalition and stems from the laws set up and drafted in 1989. Then I am ready, and it is worth talking about, that we can explain each one of our traumas here in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I had already warned and said what question Mr Miro Petek had asked and what the answer was. That is why I ask and hope that we will continue to do so. I wouldn't go on with procedural suggestions, because I don't know what you're going to say. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u194	Mr. Chairman, before I explain it, I will. I propose, Mr President-in-Office, given that today the fellow Member-in-Office is mag. Milan Swickl has already misused the procedural proposal three times so that, once again, when he asks for a procedural proposal, you will no longer give him the words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I don't think I'm going to allow anyone else until the end of this point of the procedural proposal, because that's not how it goes. Mr. Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't envy you leading this point, because the debate has gone away and it can't actually be suppressed anymore. In doing so, I would like to say that the coalition Members need to understand slowly, that the mandate goes to the end, that they are government Members and that they have the levers that the Government has in their hands, and that they need to act, not in the National Assembly, to ask the Minister and warn him, but to agree on how they will address the issues, that is to say, they will actually remedy the shortcomings. Speaking of public speaking in the National Assembly, of course, this is true. For the introduction, I was not a Member in 1995; I was not in the National Assembly, but if my memory does not deceive me, the current Slovenian Democratic Party was also in government along with Liberal Democracy. In those crucial years, I think in 1993, in 1994, you were in the government coalition all the way to the Depala village, and then the story changed a little bit. It's good to have a memory that you don't have individual gray foxes inside of that memory. And when we're talking about workers, when we're talking about tricked people, when we're talking about small shareholders, when we're talking about internal ownership, Mr. Petan, do you want to ask a question? [[..]] No, no, no. Mr Pukšič, if we have listened to your performance, which did not belong to this point, I strongly suggest that you also survive this performance. And when we talk [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] If you survive me, you don't know it yet. [[...]] [[...]] [[to talk to each other.]] Yeah, the show, that's probably it. [[...]] Sir, Vice President, I now propose that you calm down. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] I don't have any problems, I just want to finish this show. [[..]] But I can see that it is your desire to get in the way of this, but it is likely that the Vice President will take care of it, and you are so impossible to shut down, let alone reset. When we talk about small shareholders when we talk about domestic owners, respected colleagues and colleagues, we do not need to be so far into the past, although I am aware that the problems that the fellow Member has pointed out with his own question of the Member are of course great and need to be discussed. Or is this the right way here today, or I don't know it, but there's probably somewhere to talk about it seriously. As I said, it is not necessary to go so far back and there is no need for Koroška anywhere else, we should stay in Koroška if the issue was locally linked, and we can find that this government, in this mandate, may have sold the Slovenian steel industry without consulting the companies we spoke about today, and duly deceived the domestic owners within this Slovenian steel industry. I have quite a few letters, so it is time to talk about this here in the National Assembly and I propose that one of the coalition Members raise the question of the Member and ask for a debate on the answer, which is the only option to come to this debate. Many years ago, it was found that underpaid salaries were the actual contribution of employees in the rehabilitation of supported Slovenian ironworks. That's a long time ago. The employees have agreed to pay the debt in a manner that distributes the shares. Thus, the owners of the shares were co-owners of the companies of Slovenske železna. And they had more options. The first was, business shares later sold or involved in the distribution of profits or in obtaining dividends paid. However, the sale of the Slovenian steel industry made it entirely impossible for them to realize their interest after the exchange of shares in value up to 20% in each subsidiary since the Slovenian steel industry was sold as a whole. And let me quote some of these small shareholders' records: The government has done this by selling, breaking the law, and the President of the Government has not fulfilled the promises made in the pre-election talks in Koroška, where he said, the small shareholders will be paid fairly. What's fair to him, we don't know. However, we certainly know that the sales price of 190.70 euros for the stock or only a good 45% of the nominal value of 417 euros is not fair or unacceptable. For a simple explanation, this means that the shareholder who refused to pay EUR 417 per share would now receive only EUR 190.70 per share or only a good 45% of the nominal value of 1992. And what else did these so-called small shareholders write? The sale was made without a takeover premium. First, 55.35% of the CIA shares were sold, and gradually, the difference is up to 72% of the shares. The price was mainly paid by credit to Slovenian business banks, and EUR 70 million was acquired by setting up 250,000 shares that were intended to be purchased. The relationship described above shows that banks have estimated that the CIA share is worth at least EUR 560. The appreciation we have commissioned has shown the value of the shares of EUR 546. The capable sellers, the current government, have spent only 190.7 euros per share. And that's what they wrote down. Since we do not believe that the President of the Government would love Russian tycoons more than Slovenian, we expect the Government and Parliament to first investigate the Taiwanese sale of Slovenian steel and to prevent such sales from ever again deciding on the sale of state property if they have no intention of sanctioning them, and to compensate us for the damage caused by tycunisation. But this is now in this period, during this period of government, not long ago. There's a lot of stories. Injustices that have happened to employees, too. And when one of the colleagues said that the future government, if not made in the image of the current government, would take the workers to the gallows. Don't be afraid. The workers will also endure this power. In the fall, they will go to the polls and decide for themselves who will shape their fate in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. You're giving up. Mr. Mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u198	What do you say?Oh, my God! First of all, there is great regret for all the traumas suffered by Mr Jerovsk and Mr Pukšič. But there's two things to talk about. We need to talk about what the DSU is doing and what the Minister of Finance has been doing in the last three years with regard to the Consulting and Management Society, and then we need to talk about the past. And I agree. Let's talk about the Development Fund, like DSU's forefather, and SRD, and so on. Let's talk about the Property Change and Privatization Agency, let's talk about the so-called conflicts within the Demos coalition that flew Mencinger and Kranjec away. And then let's talk about everything that happened during the transition. Even about Tam. I'm just asking you this nicely, gentlemen, don't mention my name. I was the World Bank economist until 1997. And I haven't been to these jobs. But of course I had my reservations and my concerns and my own, if you want, behavior about what you should be and what it is or should be done. And Mr Jerovšek, with all due respect, I congratulate you for now I understand why you have become a Member. As a technical height, you said, [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] technologically. [[...]] You've been a technical director, so you've become technically high in the sense that this technical director doesn't need a company. But because you have this personal lawn [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Yeah, wait, you've been explaining about her for 15 minutes, I thought I was in some kind of round [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u199	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u200	Halls [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u201	Please! Let us recall the question that Mr Petek raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u202	I'll be right back. Thank you. We should talk about what the Society for Counseling and Management is doing. And the Society for Advice and Management in this mandate, although Mr Bajuk is somehow its supervisor, does not exercise that control over this society as it could. I have to say that the only time that we know what happened is that Mr. Bayuk came forward when someone's famous explanation was found in the newspapers, why he's going to take a loan at the DSU to solve the housing problem. Then the Minister of Finance found that this was very controversial. But Mr. Minister of Finance did not even blink when he decided to avoid the problems of solving the spatial distress of the Minister of Education and Sport, who in the state budget did not provide him with money to replace the fact that Janez Janša had moved to the glass palace, and Mr. Minister Bajuk had not even blinked, but had allowed the decision of the government to stop the DSU liquidation. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u203	Here you go, Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Finance Minister allows through the DSU, as a perimeter of the state budget, about a quarter of a billion euros in investments are being carried out through so-called business premises leasings. And the Members of Parliament who spoke today about the difficult situation of employees, yes, this difficult situation results from the cover on today's page of the Journal, where it says: We have the highest prices after May 2002. If this was an Apriline joke, that would be fine, but it's a deadly serious matter. And why is that? That's because DSU is used as a circuit for something you shouldn't be doing. Instead, Mr Friday, in order to deal with the DSU by persecuting those who do not do at this factory of Ivy Tablets at the Otis Summit, they are, of course, now dealing with a completely different story. I congratulate Mr Shirtzl on the transformation of the Minister of Finance and, of course, I ask him, the Minister of Finance or his Commissioner, today we could say on the day of the liars, the false presented minister, what you will do or what you have done in one month, what Mr Miro Petek asked this question, that the DSU will use all legal means to react. More than that, what are you going to do at the Ministry of Finance about what colleague Kontič said? Not now, Mr Jerovšek and Mr Pukšič, explain what happened in 1995. We are 1 April 2008. What the Ministry of Finance will do when Mr Pogačnik, who is from the same NSI party that we were talking about this morning, sold the company so peacefully, not to another partner in Slovenia, as if you would, Lesne. Iskraemecco was sold to the Egyptians. And that's where 500 jobs are closing today. What will the Ministry of Finance do about Iskreemec? Today and here. In five years' time, we will have a Member here who will become a technological outpost in Iskraemec in a few days and will be elected as a member of the National Assembly, who will explain his personal trauma here, or we will have a government that works. A government that must act. So, Mr. Finance Minister, what did you do, how did you prepare for today's meeting? Where's the material? Where is the material to be prepared by the Government? Five of you came here. What kind of material did you send to the Members before the meeting? What committee dealt with this material? There was no construction. The material is a magnetogram, it was written in a reference to the meeting of the National Assembly. When we discussed a question a few years ago that was called poor European funds, Mr Janez Janša and the Minister of Finance came here, and I think that Mr Žagar, who was already, whether or not, the head of the Local Self-Government and Regional Development Service, sat down. We have had a debate, the government has prepared itself, and today we have some, I will say, more of an attempt to discuss on the evening of the debate on bad business Kada and Soda in this mandate, the problems of the great gift at Mercator, we are discussing the DSU. I want a debate on the DSU, but I want a debate on what the Ministry of Finance will do and why it has not done what it could do, given the legitimate question of fellow Member Petk. There are still a few questions sent that would require a debate if we had a minister who would first hope to come here. I would ask the Minister of Finance whether it makes sense to him and makes sense, because today everyone is explaining how wrong it is that we have large prizes, that someone from the state budget, and this person is writing Minister Dimitrij Rupel, paying his advisor 363,000 euros a year. Look at yesterday's Finances, Miha Pogačnik, 363,000 euros. And he's our advisor for not knowing what kind of relationship he already has. If we want to discuss the rational use of public money in the case you cited, then let us discuss all aspects. And then we'll find that the key problem of DSU is the one that my colleague Weber warned about. DSU is doing business today for which - I went to check your website, you haven't had any information for the public since 2006 to execute and build the Chief Police Administration to build the Ministry of Education, etc. Please! At the very least, this is not done in accordance with the Slovenian legal order. The DSU has its own balance sheet. This balance sheet, when sold, is the revenue of the State budget through a special account set out in the Budget Implementation Act and when you manage transactions on behalf and on behalf of the State, then you simply cannot do so through the State budget. This should be asked by the Minister of Finance. And then we'll quickly find that when you quarter billion euros in investment in business spaces drive past the state budget, then you have a serious problem in the construction market. And that's the story of DSU for me. Inside that then this story falls to 150 000 euros of credit, but Mr. Rozic, here you are, the minister went, you withdrew, Mr. Pirkmajer took that loan back and so on. It's the Minister of Finance's logical reaction to me. However, it is not the logical reaction of the Minister of Finance that he is not here today and that he did not write anything in preparation for this reply. Mr. Tsukjati and I used to argue about what the College had decided and what it didn't. But you know, if it says here: Minister Andrej Bajuk, crossed out, Government, then I agree that Mr. Shircelj is sitting there. And if in the end it's not Dr. Andrej Bajuk, but Vlada, then I agree with you gentlemen who run the National Assembly. However, because this has not been written, I must say that if I remind the President of the National Assembly of the lack of respect for the Rules of Procedure and he declares, the lady who sits right next to you can confirm this - Squeak march into the bench, go to the bench, then this is a misunderstanding of the role of the President of the National Assembly. He made a mistake, we warned him about it, and the gentleman gets nervous. That's the problem we came up with, if you want, 10 hours of debate in the National Assembly. And what do we have? We have a round hall where it is no longer clear whether we respect the rules of procedure in which ministers change into secretaries of state and you are here interpreting the 1991, 1992, 1995 stories, but we do not get an answer from the Minister of Finance, what he did to address the problem that Mr Miro Petek has pointed out. We don't get that answer. But we have a DSU that's becoming some real estate circuit of the government of Janez Janša. And that's what voters and voters are going to judge this fall. All of this, colleagues and colleagues, affects, as economists we say, excessive aggregate demand. The result is what the Statistical Office published yesterday: 1.3% of inflation, today and here. Therefore, of course, Vice-President, I think that this debate has crossed all borders. However, this has happened because Mr Minister is not present here and because he has not answered the question put by Mr Petek. And I conclude, once again, with congratulations to Mr Petk, that he succeeded in bringing the Government, after we had done two points peacefully without their presence, but managed to reach the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor. Mr. Aloys Sok, you have the floor. [[The ad in the hall.]] Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek. I just want to say something. Your fellow Member, Mr Miro Petek, has asked a question. Respect what Mr. Magg has said. He's been practicing that he's asked that question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u206	I don't understand you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Squeakle was talking about my personal trauma and, of course, I have to answer that. When, as the author of the chemical synthesis that was produced and based on which 150 jobs were maintained, I was declared a technological surplus overnight, of course I had major problems and had some personal trauma. But to the actors of all of this, Mr. Squeakle, the people of the Slovenian Development Society, from the party you belonged to earlier, were behind the backs. And the main internal actor who proposed recapitalisation for 10 million marks for the technology that has already been "flighted" that we, engineers, have developed, but was a member of our current party, and is still today, and also Forum 21, so I have to tell you this. But today I also have a trauma, and later I had it, when none of these parties that you now belong to or have belonged to, doesn't want to listen to, doesn't want to talk to them. They even leave the National Assembly and whistle at the rights of small shareholders, workers' rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u207	Mr. Aloys Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u208	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear representatives of the Government, distinguished fellow Members and Members! I very much agree with the final conclusion of my speaker that this debate has crossed all borders, and this is the most beautiful way he has demonstrated here as well. So, he turned into a prosecutor, a judge, and something else. I concluded, of course, like all of these April's debates today, with the elections. So we're already in an election campaign. Nobody's interested in the subject, but they're talking about some completely different needs. And what I am to Mr. Cwickel, who does not hold to any topic in fact, because he did not hold to this question today in his debate, but he was talking about all sorts of things, including, I don't know what kind of counselor Mr. Rupel has, but he himself has forgotten what kind of advisor or how many of them he has on this committee 8x8 he leads and how much money he spends on this advice and so on. So, he's talking all sorts. Okay, we're kind of used to this. I think that our viewers and people will understand that these problems that we are talking about have not occurred in this mandate, in the last three, a little over three years, or perhaps three and a half years, but that they are problems of Slovenian reality, which began much earlier. Probably if we didn't have an II. World War II, and then everything that happened to nationalisations, confiscations, then the construction of this social property - my colleague Starman described very nicely in the previous paragraph today - would not have all these problems that we are facing, and would not have talked about these thousands anymore, I would say that some million Slovenians have been tricked by these certificates to get some of the papers that they then had, in various ways, escaped by their master of privatisation in one way or another. Money is a holy ruler. This temptation will continue for as long as the human race is likely to live and we will have to fight it over and over and over again and again and again. And it is not true that the Minister of Finance did not answer the question of Ambassador Petk. Of course he answered. You have everything in your reply as to how Lesna Slovenj Gradec found herself in this situation when the contract was concluded. 2001 I don't think Minister Bajuk was in position at the time. It is true, however, that Mr Squeakl was then 2001 because he was on the Board of Directors of the Court. And today we have heard how he represented on one side of the Court and on the other side of the Hotel Palace and what value these sales were for. And it is this fellow of ours, this gentleman, who has the greatest say in the National Assembly, to say the most about these matters, against Minister Bajuk. Like it's not enough for him to have a whole team with the secretary of state in charge. No, no, no. Every time he discusses, he demands that the entire ministerial assembly sit here and listen to him. But they're not crazy about sitting here, wasting their time and listening to the primordial "what" that the gentleman is developing. We are very sorry, and I am also one of those Members, who I have constantly warned, even before I was in opposition; I think that during this government coalition many things have been done, in the sense that these damages have been removed in order to correct some injustices. At least what we can say about the period of this government is that it did not interfere with all those authorities in our country that have to take care of order and discipline if you want to comply with laws in this area. It's from the police, the criminals, the prosecution, the judiciary and so on. Hence, some measures, so - called clean shovels, have probably taken place in recent times. I don't know who made that expression up, but by that expression it appears in public. But what we can't say about previous governments. Today, colleague Pukšič spoke about one of such matters when the penal law or 1 was changed. 1. 1995 entered into force, which reduced some obsolete hands and after which some people were suddenly deeply involved in one of the affairs in Slovenia, overnight outside the marriage. Allow me and I will conclude on this occasion that I say something else. Last night, I was watching a round table as to how the new government would if it were to pursue this crime, what it would do. Indeed, the President of the State does not have a good chance of not signing a law adopted by the National Assembly. He has to sign it and then the law goes into effect. When I saw Mr. Puppy there, I remembered right away. He was the president of the Republic at the time, and he was the one who signed this amendment to the penal code and didn't say anything. At least as President of the Republic at that time, he could say and point out that something had been done with this law, which would allow certain accused persons to not be reached by the time of justice. Mr Kučan appeared in one function yesterday, in one of the roles that made him aware that he was concerned about the current situation. That is, when they started when a favourable situation arose for all that we are talking about today, then he was not very concerned as president of the country. When I see these things, and when I see that even journalists don't remember asking gentlemen a similar question: How can I really be a citizen, not just as a member of this National Assembly, sad when I see how these things happen in our country. I would like this story of privatisation and exit from the country to end as soon as possible, because when it ends, there will be no more discussions about such and similar damage, in which our citizens have indeed been harmed. I mean, and I'm going to end it, Mr. Squeakle, to read that answer again, which was given by Minister Bajuk, and if not, we'll read it here. It explains what DSU is doing at the moment when it took over these matters and what are the contractual obligations arising from the sale of Lesna Slovenj Gradec. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u210	It is very difficult for a Member to respond to all the inaccuracies within two minutes, but the most important thing is to say. This thesis is that the President of the Republic, the former President of the Republic, who supported yesterday's substantive idea of combating economic crime with the right means, say and deny that he must not do so, so to speak. But let me tell you, for those of you who have slightly forgotten history, the financial police were Mr. Kranjc's original proposal for finance in 1991. When this came in, both Mr Kranjc and Mr Mencinger were replaced on a proposal from Demos. And we need the financial police, as Mrs Andrijana Starina Kosem now walks through Slovenia with the security forces, especially Mr Sok, when I hope that we will be on the commission in which you, too, are familiar with the report on arms trafficking 1991-1993. Since this report and those advisers you object to; by the way, you have also agreed to this evidentiary decision, this is the rule: the minority is legally voting on the evidence; and these advisors, who are challenged by the Commission, I hope that they will present you with documents that prove that the financial police in Slovenia are no longer required because it is likely that the auditors or the Court of Auditors or the accounting inspectors will walk around unprotected. We've come so far. Therefore, the debate on why Mr Minister does not say what happened to the economic study and why Mr Minister says it is possible that the DSU cannot report to the supervisory board. Of course, Mr Minister will not answer here, Mr Minister, in the last month; because it is the only material we have received since 28 February 2008 and today is April 1st; he has not provided any additional reply. And yes, there are a lot of april "whats" today, but since you were missing before, Mr Sok, let me tell you. I didn't sell the hotels of the Sea. At the time, on the basis of my proposal, I was already relieved of my office as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Court. These are facts and not only that, I am proud that this case was made, because the Court of Auditors found out three years later, I quote: "The opinion is positive. "Sales are successful." That's how it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. I think that this whole debate has some message from Dr. Bayuk that he should be much more determined. To look around, with whom he actually participates at a lower level in individual services, and also in the ministry, that is partly true, because then a lot of things happen, which we have witnessed recently. In short, more determination and courage is the only thing that follows from what we have witnessed so far in this hall. Some of the claims that the debate went to the sky's breadth are such that it is only necessary to draw attention to at least the most rude transfer of SD Members which they have demonstrated in these debates. Firstly, in 1995, the SDS was no longer in government and mentioning SDS in the context of the then government story is ridiculous. If any of the colleagues again succumbed to that amnesia which is otherwise characteristic of the SDS, let me remind you that already in mid-1994 Mr Janez Janša, with the dirty game of secret services, was expelled from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and that also meant, of course, the departure of the SDS to the opposition. That's the first one. Secondly, if someone tells personal injuries that he has experienced as an employee, as a person who has worked in the economy, and his colleagues and colleagues in the SD mock him with all their voices, and Mrs Dara Lavtijar Bebler even in a nutshell, then it is very clear that all their talk about understanding the problems that employees have about defending the rights of employees is a mere scheming, because the actions then speak in a completely different way than their words. Third time. The adoption also occurred when, like several times before, a law was passed by Demos and was therefore responsible for how it was later implemented. Please, polytology teaches you very clearly that even more important is who's implementing the law than who's adopting it in what period. And it is stories with different forms of policy influence in the economy that make this very clear. Under no circumstances can the former Demos be blamed for the fact that some of the laws were later enforced by someone in Irish pants one day a member of the then ruling SD LDS, and the next day he was at the head of the biggest insurance company in the country, although he had neither economic experience nor qualifications nor knowledge nor, in fact, did not meet any basic ethical conditions that he would have had for such a job. In short, acquitting the blame for such conduct of the then SD - LDS connection to one who had once adopted a law in good faith is once again pure persecution. And if I continue with the fact that the SD Group of Members has mentioned many times, today there have also been some hints in this direction about how wrong it is to talk about people who are not members of Parliament who cannot answer the charges. You know, it would be nice if we were on our own on this one. But since Mrs Lautijar Bebler, who would like to tell her something in person, is not here now, I will do so later with a procedural proposal because it relates to some of the materials that I would also like to submit, and I have a concrete proposal in this regard and I will now point it out. However, I must point out this: Politics, as the lowest form of a negative political campaign, cites attempts to stain a policy with the malignment of its relatives. And it is obvious, unfortunately, that this is the new quality that individual visible members of the SD have so much to say in recent times. From this point of view, Mrs Bebler and also Mr Cvikl, I thank you in advance for the fact that such appearances by members of the SD Group, including the most valuable acquisitions for which they have even organised a public celebration, help to open the public's eyes to see this extremely large difference between words and actions, and of course to realize that the red thread of their public performances is actually a mere diversion. More later on in the process proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u213	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! We've heard a lot of stories today, a lot of stories about judges who were incompetent after becoming lawyers, suddenly became capable and now represent the most resilient names in the so-called tycoon story. Prosecutors who have not been able to prosecute not only economic but also more common crime are not, but are now successful lawyers in the same stories. Personally, I also miss some names in this hall, which have been very professional in the field of privatisation in the past and are practically synonymous with Slovenian certification privatisation. I miss my buddy Rope. He was President of the Privatisation Council of the Agency from 1993 until 26 June 2003, ten years before he became Prime Minister of the Government. We know how certification privatisation ended. Many who have submitted these certificates to various pids have not received even five, some not three percent. And in this connection, it has to be said that the Slovenian steel industry is not the story of this government, but it is the story of past governments, the story of 1999 and 2001 when you fooled these shareholders by writing 100 000 to them for a certificate worth perhaps 10,000 tolars for unpaid wages. That was the problem. You tricked them, not this government. This government sold the Slovenian steel industry on a public international invitation to tender. Eight interested parties were acquired, three decided and submitted tenders, and an offer with the highest rating was selected. That's the story of this government. Write the rest down, dear fellows and colleagues, including those who are not here today in the hall because you are afraid to discuss these things to yourself. These are the facts and in the Slovenian steel industry we have discussed and not that we have not discussed, we have, on many occasions in this Chamber. We discussed when answers to parliamentary questions were requested, and we discussed when you introduced a law to correct this alleged injustice that the current government has done to these people. And then we said the same thing, we based the facts, we showed the numbers, and I don't think we need to discuss this here again today. This story is also somehow linked to the questions raised by colleague Mira Petk. Now to the present story. It is clear that the Consulting and Implementation Company is causing inflation to rise because it is concerned about increasing the value of state assets by investing in this value increase on behalf of the State. I don't understand that. I wouldn't expect an economist to make such a claim. Because, according to this same logic, it is necessary to say that managers' buyouts have increased these inflation expectations even more and all that is involved, and we have heard from the same mouth that this is not a problem, even from competent people from the Bank of Slovenia, even though I do not agree with these opinions in this case. What happened in the past was how it was taken care of the spaces the police needed, the education, the ministries. One concrete case. The state, the Ministry of Defence, was the owner of the facility. She found, at the time of the Minister, Mr Kacin, that she did not need him. She sold it for 300,000 marks. And after a while, she rented for her own purposes, some of her organs for 72 thousand mark a year's rent. So, in five years, this facility was paid off. After a while, she bought it for about a million marks. This was the story of the previous government, the previous governments, and perhaps it was a system that did not give rise to inflationary expectations. I don't know. I doubt it. You're not gonna convince me that. In any case, it was poor, non-economic and tens of thousands of square metres of private-owned surfaces are leased from your period, and the state rents them for immeasurable rents. Many times she did not even wonder what the rent was. These are the stories that this government faced and gradually began to implement in 2004 a system of economic governance with state assets. Far from being on the spot now, when everything is fine and ideal. Gentlemen, there's too much of this ballast from before to be able to fix it, not be able to fix it. I hope that it will be settled within ten years, but the path it takes is the right one, and if part of this route is a consulting and management company, there is nothing wrong with it. The same is true because it works on behalf of the State, noble assets and taxpayers are not harmed. I can't say it wasn't in your time. If we look at just 5% of all these contracts, I'm sure we could find out in 4.5% that there's a lack of economy and irrational behaviour. That is why I do not see the problem here nor do I see that in any way this story could be related to the issue of inflation and other macroeconomic issues, and I think we would go too far if we discussed it. What has been done in the past is very difficult to fix, especially after so many years. I also said in the debate on the Slovenian steel industry that even if you wanted to do what you did wrong in 1999-2001 now to correct in the way you proposed, we cannot do so, because then we should correct the injustice to all hundreds of thousands and more of the citizens who have been deceived by these certificates in the same way. We can't do that. That's the story that was set up. I think our mission to the National Assembly is different. It is right that we have come to know this, but it is not fair that at such points it is so politicized and it is said that what we can all prove is not true.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Rudolf Petan? You're giving up. Mr. Milenko Ziherl? So do I. Mr. Mag. What would you like to practice? Replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u216	Yeah. He spoke, of course, about a Member who explained that the influence of the DSU on taking over hundreds of millions of euros is an illogical impact on inflation. Of course, he mentioned the Member who said that. Mr Černač, I know you are not an economist, but it is simply that when you have a great demand, of course, that you also build, instead of moving the Ministry of Education to the palace at Gregorčičeva 25, the new premises of the Ministry of Education through the debt or property that the DSU has, then of course this affects the increased aggregate demand. For the aggregate offer given, increased aggregate demand results in price growth and in March 2008 we have the highest price growth since May 2002. 1.3%, if you multiply by 12 you are almost 15% inflation. At the annual level, inflation is already 6.9%. And this is because Mr. Janez Janša and the Minister of the Beast have arranged for Bajuk to ensure through the DSU that the Minister of the Beast will be given a place to rent or "leasing", and Janez Janša will move to the glass palace at Gregorčičeva 25. So this is very easy to explain, I hope that you, too, are not economists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u218	In view of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, as usual, we know the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the correction of the Member who spoke before him and the replica in this regard. And although I understand, Mr President, that you cannot predict ahead of time what the Member will say, in this particular case, in my opinion, we can only predict here. Indeed, all these implementations, which we have witnessed in the last three years by a respected colleague of Cicicle, are always going in the same direction, towards the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. So please, don't give him any words like that, because I can't answer him, I can't tell him that what he's saying isn't true and that I haven't talked about these things and that it's not connected to this point of the agenda. I was talking about the fact that, in the management of state property, the former governments, when they hired him from private people and then paid him back through rents in five to seven years, acted irrationally. That's what I'm talking about. And so far, the policy to become the owner of these property states in the same period is correct, economical, rational. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u220	Thank you so much for saying that. I would prefer not to speak now given that Mr Rudi Mogue had earlier said that it was political marketing. But this is the same as saying to this left-hand side of Parliament that left this hall to obstruct because they have a hairy conscience, because they had sticky fingers in the past or were involved in these works, they laid a table for this tycoon elite, or they're hunting crumbs on this table today. It is not necessarily that what is important to Mr Rudi Mojet is also important for all other Members, whether for me or Jerovska or Pukšič. And it is nice that in democracy we Members can ask the question that we no longer live in totalitarianism, that we do not think with one head and that we do not speak with one mouth. On the question of Lesna Slovenj Gradec, however, should read a piece from the complaint against the administration of Lesne d.d. for irresponsible, harmful and criminal offences and against the Slovenian Development Society. This complaint was lodged by Mr Đuro Harami on behalf of the 1200 shareholders who were deprived of their business. Among others, they say: we propose to the State Prosecutor's Office to verify the legality and regularity of the work of the Lesna administration, d.d. and Slovenian development companies and at least partially protect the interests of employees and former employees. We have also invested our certificates in challenging the management of Lesna in our society in order to preserve our property and secure our work. We had to deposit the debt certificates with our company and the property was destroyed by the non-disclosure operators and took personal advantage. What happened to this complaint? Nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u221	Thank you very much. All the reported debates that you wanted to get your word on. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, would you like to see the Secretary of State? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Allow me to answer, of course, given that a lot of questions have been raised in the debate, which I think I must also answer as a representative of the Government, especially because certain irregularities have also been said in connection with the current state of public finances, including in connection with DSU and, last but not least, since I have been appointed several times by one Member as Minister. Of course, I must say that I have been in this National Assembly several times before, that I am the Secretary of State, and that I will say it again, regardless of whether or not I may be replaced. I think I speak here as a representative of the government. Once again, I apologize to Minister Bajuk for not being able to attend this meeting. About the DSU Company. DSU is the successor of the SRD, the successor of the Development Fund. Of course, in a particular chapter, it is also a vehicle of property transformation, privatisation and denationalisation and, of course, it plays this role. He does it in a transparent manner, as stipulated by the law. It plays this role by making it as effective as possible in these matters and, of course, by keeping accounting in particular, leading business events and thus presenting clearly everything it does. The second area, as mentioned above, is the area of real estate. And in this area, of course, it also acts as a limited liability company established under the Company Act, which has its supervisory authorities, company management and so on. From this point of view, the current operation of DSU is completely transparent and contributes to the fact that, I will say, even in the sphere of state ownership, there is greater efficiency and, of course, to the fact that the funds of both the state budget and the wider public sector are also being used in the most efficient way. Given that it has been mentioned that this is a parallel budget and so on. This is not a parallel budget. I said the balance sheets are clear, they're transparent and they're presented. The budget of Slovenia that we have today, we know the results for 2007, we are talking about the surplus in this budget and we are talking about healthy public finances in this area, especially when we are talking about how much money is actually being spent, and here we can say that the percentage of gross social product costs of the budget are decreasing, not only that, but the budget as a whole, of course, we can talk about four cash registers. It is also not about any additional indebtedness and the impact of such a state's operation in the broadest sense, it is said that setting up a limited liability company does not affect inflation in any way more than if someone did it with private property. Moreover, it is already in itself, if you want, professions, theories or whatever, the question of what is what affects inflation. The undeniable fact is, and the European Central Bank has also found that, in the last period, except for the last month, inflation, both in Slovenia and in the European Union, has been most affected by the rise in oil prices and the rise in food prices. So in this respect, the matter is perfectly clear. Allow me to comment on some other matters in the case of ownership and so on. During the 90 years we had specific legislation in Slovenia, which continued until the 21st century. Specific legislation, which was very liberal in this area, especially as certain individuals who had information that had money that had power could benefit from this by making additional profits through companies, straw companies or companies specifically established for this purpose. Profit is, of course, a perfectly normal phenomenon in capitalism, but not an "extra" profit. Such trends have continued in certain cases over the last period. And here I would like to point out that the Government, through its legislation adopted in the National Assembly a few months ago, actually prevented or prevented this. We are talking here about the Law on Amendments to the Banking Act, we are talking about amendments to the Company Act, where it has been impossible to further privatise assets, so that individuals can acquire more assets at the expense of others, because they have information, because they have some power, financial power, because they have more assets. This legislation is well known and here we can say that the Government acted responsibly. I can certainly answer the question why, just now, why, after three years, I am answering with a question why nothing had happened before, in order to prevent this in some way, because we all know that it was not healthy economic relations here. Last but not least, I must say that the Government will still take certain measures, so, in terms of what I will say, restrictions in the area of so-called privatisation, further privatisation, as well as measures in the area of ensuring greater competitiveness, in order to ensure stable financial development and so that prices can also be settled. Last but not least, I would like to say that the loan, which was also mentioned here, that the loan was repaid within a few weeks, did not in short result in any injury or injury, and this was also reported to the National Assembly with an answer to the question sent by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Anyone else? Mr. Mag. Squeak and Mr. Tanko have applied so far. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Squeak. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, it's the chairman's call. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u224	Given that Mr. Tank [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u225	Five minutes each, both of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u226	Given that we have not yet heard Mr Tank today, I, of course, wanted to give him the opportunity to say something on behalf of the Group of Members. I must say I agree with Mr Grimes. Mr. Minister of Finance should take better care of his subordinates. For example, because we are discussing so widely today, even those who have proposed to him this famous solution, which Mr Shircelj is now explaining that he has no problems. Mr. Shircelj, let me explain again. According to the GFS, according to the Government Finance Statistics" is every leasing, this has been the case for some time now, an integral part of public finances and should be in the state budget. And boast of the surplus, in the year that you've eliminated from public spending, not only the debt of Dars, which we're going to discuss a lot, but the simple construction of the Ministry's business premises. When you exclude this from the state budget, you may also have a public spending of 30% of GDP. By this logic, we set up companies to draw on European funds and transfer to them all the burden of drawing on European funds, giving them guarantees from municipalities, future regions, the state budget, and the end of the fundamental constitutional principle, which is called that all the revenue and expenditure of the state budget or state budget must be shown in the state budget. And, Mr. Shircelj, that's why we have inflation. Let me remind you. In 1990 we had 60 municipalities in Slovenia. Each of the municipalities had about 10 SISes, each SIS had its own source and when you multiplied it you got 600 points at which the state budget is decided. Very easy - Janez Janša at the time wants to have a palace and in one municipality, a contribution rate is raised in one SIS. What you do to make DSU a burden on its assets and take out financial leasing and build some of the spaces it will give to the Ministry of Education in leasing is, of course, financial innovation, which must, in accordance with the principles of GFS, be included in the remuneration or expenditure. But now you do this in your financial claims and investments account, but you do this in your income and expenditure balance account, it's now debateable, but I'm assessing that, however, between the expenditure. Because there's a cash flow. However, if I take ESO95 into account, then the entire commitment adopted should be made between the expenditure of the State budget. And if you started building the general police administration in 2007, if you started building the Ministry of Education and Sport, which are worth a pair of 10 million euros, then it must be during the expenditure. Only after the GFS can you drag this thing around for a while. And if we have determined in the state budget or in the National Assembly for the Congregations that all leasings are during the expenditure, I do not know why we allow this now for the ministries. My friend Webber was talking. But why did this happen? Why did the Ministry of Education and Sport have to go into financial leasing?Oh, my God! The Ministry of Education and Sport was designated by a decision of the Government from 1999-2000 to build on the renovated building of the former Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Gregorčič 25. The building was rehabilitated and final works were prepared in 2004. The Ministry of Education, and at the top of the boardroom for public servants. And what happened? The famous meeting took place on August 12, 2005, and it is likely that Janez Janša wants to move to the glass palace because of the bad memories of this meeting. And the Ministry of Education and Sport will stay at Zupančičova 3 again, in rented premises or in premises under denationalisation. And where Minister Bajuk finds the solution or I don't think Minister Bajuk will find it. Mr. Grimes, I agree with you. Someone else brought this to him. The Minister for Education and Sport will find a solution by preventing the liquidation of the Consulting and Management Society, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] which takes over the business [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u227	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u228	the construction of school premises. [[...]] Of course, it's not a normal world, it's a pro-inflation spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that the main actors in the Slovenian transition have moved from our left, from Liberal Democracy to our far right, for the Social Democrats, they have also taken away all the medals and all the credit for the Slovenian transition between the Social Democrats. What happened to that? Very much. If we look at how officials who performed certain functions occupied jobs, we can see that your colleague Rob had very important functions in this transition in many companies. First, in the legislative work, as the drafter of the legislation, as the secretary of state, as the minister, he also held functions in the Court of Justice, in Kad and in the Restructuring Agency. In short, over the entire restructuring system, Mr Rop had his hand directly as a contractor and as an executor, virtually all the implementation took place in one person. When we ask gentlemen now whether they ask the Commission of Inquiry about the activities it has carried out, it is quickly found that there is a very serious problem in the transfer of information to a lasting memory. In short, it shows a very high level of dementia, for it does not fully recall any case related to these matters. The same is happening to Mr. Squill. He knows a lot about a glass palace, for example. There's a government in there right now. I hope he'll be there after the next election. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u231	Mr. Tanko, I have to warn you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u232	The government remains and will not come. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u233	In the end, I will only be able to find out one thing that only Mr Miro Petek spoke about this point of the day. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u234	The right also spoke of the glass palace, also in this last debate; and I hope that until the next elections, the government will remain there, so that you will not transform it into a messo and a similar old one. As far as the effects in Lesna are concerned. About 11 million euro has been invested in Lesno. After the sale, the country "cassed" 4 million euros. Net loss of €7 million. As for, say, the Talum of 17 million and a half euros in deposits, 4.6 million "cashed" is about 12 million euros. For example, Cimos, almost €46 million has been invested in this restructuring process, and about €10.15 million has come back, in short, €30 million. And when only a few of these biggest companies that have restructured and then sold themselves cheap when they were recapitalized and sold cheaply, we quickly come to a number that is significantly larger than the number that we talked about in one point earlier, this is Mercator, a much larger one. Not to mention, for example, Tama Maribor, a 40 million-euro deposit, eventually came into the state budget some change. Again with these seven most unsuccessful attempts of recovery you have performed, we will cover everything that has happened to you in the Mercator case. And nothing special happened there. If anything had happened there, there would have been no need for any activities, additional activities, and so on. If we mention only the sale of Lek, then we can quickly find out that Lek was indeed a terrible loss, a potential loss, because this way that you picked up has practically brought [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Given that the honourable Member, Mr Cwickl, spoke about public finances and so on and assumed leasing, I think he assumed financial leasing as opposed to operational leasing. I am simply saying that this debate was, of course, unnecessary, on the one hand, because there is no financial leasing between the Ministry of Education and the company DSU and there is no financial leasing contract. This is also why the thesis that these finances are, and so on, that we have eliminated something, is not true. And here's the thesis that I told you before that we have healthy finances here. So much for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and thus also this item on the agenda. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 8:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u238	Dear Members and Members! We're moving on to the session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda - consideration of the Report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Compensation Society d.d. for the period May 2005 - December 2006. And a message. According to the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, d.d. for 2007. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DesUS. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, for 44, for 17. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Zares Group for a new 1.a decision. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 22 to 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Zares Group for a new 1.b decision. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, for 20, against 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. The decision on the proposal shall be taken in full. Yes, Mr. Mag. Grimes, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u239	Thank you for your word. I've been waiting for Mrs. Bebler to join us. Unfortunately, I will have to make a procedural proposal in her absence. Her, on her behalf, I will now give this to the leader of the SD Group and I wanted to hand you two documents concerning Mrs Bebler's debate this morning. For it has shown that it is pure controversy, a constant protest by the SD Group when [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u240	Mr. Mag. Grims, I can interrupt.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u241	Yes, if you'll excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u242	We're in phase No, I can't. [[...]] We are in the voting phase. And at this stage of voting under the Rules of Procedure, I can only provide you with obstruction or request a recess. We're in the voting phase.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u243	Dear President, I have a concrete proposal on some concrete documents, asking them to be distributed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u244	Excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u245	So can I make a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u246	Excuse me. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 20. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda, which is the Commission's Report on the supervision of public finances on the treatment of alleged damage to State property in the sale of Kad and the Court's capital shares in Mercator, d.d., with proposals for conclusions. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SDS and NSI to the first decision. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 24. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS and NSI to the second and third decisions. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, I think you heard what I said to Mr Magi. Grimes. Because both of you are masters, I hope you both understand that. So please, once again, there are no procedural questions, but just an explanation of vote. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u247	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. At the time of the debate, a procedural requirement was made for the President of the National Assembly to determine before deciding on this decision, which states that the National Assembly finds that the Court of Auditors, by means of the Legislative and Legal Service, does not determine whether such a decision is possible in relation to the constitutional jurisdiction and separation of the Court of Auditors from the National Assembly. Actually, we're going to say, the Court of Auditors said something black, but now we're going to say no, but the National Assembly thinks it's white. It would therefore be good, in accordance with Article 66, paragraph 5, to obtain this opinion as chairman before the vote, so that the ruling coalition would indeed withdraw this senseless proposal on this basis. I therefore, of course, predict that, as the Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the proposal for a decision. However, we believe that it would, of course, be procedurally correct, I regret that the services did not transmit this to you in the debate on the proposal requested. It is better for the Legislative and Legal Service to find that we cannot discuss this and perhaps then the ruling coalition has withdrawn such a stupid decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I would like to tell you that, at the time of this speech, the Chair has assessed it as he has assessed it, so we continue to vote. We're voting. There were 72 votes in favour, 42 against 28. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for conclusions. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[In my own name.]] I give priority to Mr Pecchet, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u249	Thank you for your word. In the Lipa Group, we will oppose such proposals. According to our assessment and our firm conviction, the proposals for conclusions legitimize what we should not. The fact is that, with today's most likely vote on the proposed decisions, the National Assembly will achieve that it will legalise what it should not. This is about as if the National Assembly would legitimize illegal activity from the past in exchange for having clean hands in the future. This is not the task of the National Assembly and the National Assembly for this price should not support unusual transactions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? Here you go, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u251	Thank you. I believe that all of us, at least those who have been here and listened, are a little tired, especially because of this last point, which was an eclectic breach of the Rules of Procedure, but that is not a problem. Look, we have now adopted some amendments, and here we also have the conclusions proposed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. And now I want and ask for at least once the respect of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for you to tell us exactly what we are deciding, because now that is enough. We have the conclusions of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which are clear, we have the amendments that have now been adopted, but we do not understand what is now. Are we taking the amendments into account and now the conclusions are valid, or are the conclusions conclusions? I mean, yes, of course, you can growl because you were talking about the only thing I didn't hear in point 3 is the answer to Mr Petk's question. [[...]] [[...]] You've been talking about everything, just what Mr. Friday asked me to do, but I've been listening to it all along, and I don't know now. Did you, Mr Friday - and I will take advantage and cross the Rules of Procedure because you all - or did you, Mr Petek, receive an answer or clarification to the Minister's response? You didn't because everyone was talking about how they were injured, what's wrong with Croatia, what's wrong with the fines, how everything is wrong! You didn't get the answer. [[The ad in the hall.]] I know, I know, I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure. You all did! At the end of the line, you all did. You've all been talking - not you, you've been talking about everything else, just about the question that Mr. Friday asked, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u252	Mr. Barovich!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u253	And now I'm wondering, please, tell us exactly what conclusions, which conclusions, each one, we make, and how. Because I don't want ambiguity, I don't want to. Because I don't believe it, really, after this last point that really doesn't have anything to do with it, but if everyone's been breaking the Rules of Procedure for three hours, I'm going to be two minutes. I want a detailed explanation of the conclusion. Read it, Mr. President, I ask you nicely what we decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u254	We decide on the proposal for decisions in full on this point and on the two amendments adopted. I think that I must say that conclusions have also been put forward for the debate, and I think that these conclusions have also been brought to your attention. Shall we start the debate again? Yeah. No, no, no. We're in a vote. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u255	I think my colleague Barovich is right. I think that the National Assembly should take note of the additions to the conclusions that were adopted a little earlier. It is a fact that we would need, within the framework of the conclusions proposed and subsequently adopted by the amendments to the conclusions, to be written. And I think that the National Assembly deserves to write about this point, or at least to tell you what conclusions with the additions the National Assembly of this city will now and here vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u256	One more time. The decisions of the parent working committee were adopted and presented. Two amendments were adopted to these decisions, two amendments were tabled and two amendments adopted. We are now deciding on the decisions that we have had and that have been submitted by the Home Working Committee and on both of the amendments adopted. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]] We're voting. The vote is under way. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] There are 59 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 11. [[...]] [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the conclusions are taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Please, Mr. Mag. Squeak. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u257	Mr President, I apologize, but I just want to remind you of your promise that you will allow me to explain the voice that you did not then make because of this confusion. I understand. It doesn't matter. What's important is that we've adopted very stupid conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u259	Mr President, with all due respect. I don't think Mr. Weeds is right. Of course, Mr Plevelj explains to you the same way I do when I hold the meeting. However, the fact is that in the course of the previous vote, we should say a copy of the proposed decision, which was supplemented by an amendment. And it's not right for the National Assembly, by Mr. Plewell. Believe me, I know his strategy and his tactics, that they want the National Assembly meeting to be concluded as soon as possible, and that's a mistake. But, Mr. Klavora, you run the session, just like I do sometimes, usually always, say, it's wrong. In this case, Mr. Plewell is wrong. Mr Plevelj has no right to speak, especially as regards the conduct of the meetings of the National Assembly. Therefore, according to my assessment, the only duty you are obliged to do is to say which decision we are voting on and how. Mr. Plevelj, please, if you're listening, for once and take a look at the National Assembly. On behalf of the parliamentary group, we have asked you to make a decision, as it stands, Mr Klavora, and you have not told him, even though we have asked you to do so. The fact is that two amendments to the draft decision have been adopted, and the fact is that you did not know what conclusions we were voting on. Therefore, from this city, Mr Klavora, President of the National Assembly, we ask that you repeat the vote, tell us what proposals we have voted on, what is the name of the writing, and what is the content of the proposed conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u260	Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr President, I would really like to ask you. We have accepted, according to your belief, two amendments to the proposals for conclusions. Can you please explain to me, as the first of the same in this house, what are the conclusions that we have adopted along with the amendments? And what happened to the conclusions of the parent’s working body? If you can't explain this to me, I consider the vote invalid and I want you to repeat it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u263	Mr. President-in-Office. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to request a 10-minute recess. Do this writing, for the conclusions of which we have spoken are clear, and the three conclusions are, but what we have received is in fact an apple which is not fit for pear. And write this paper so that the gentlemen in the position will see how stupid this is. I ask you kindly, on the same list as the amendments, that they will see that this is not going to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-01-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I'd say so. Even so far, as we have been monitoring, this, at least to me, as chairman of the first, has happened to me that someone, when we have already adopted the amendments and voted on the law, would require a copy of the additional amendments. I'd like to tell you this and that with determination. The vote is closed. Mr President of the National Assembly will put in writing tomorrow with the amendments adopted in circulation and you will be able to read it. Thank you. We are moving on to the end of item 2 of the agenda - with the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Prevention of Competition, within the framework of the regular procedure. On Thursday, 27 March, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I also inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present for 67, against 3. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of the 6th item of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Court Fees, under the ordinary procedure. On Thursday 27 March 2008, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I also inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, for 56, for 3. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
