ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 36th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Sam Bevk, Ljubo Germič, Franc [[Ferry]] Horvat, Kristijan Janc, Bojan Kontič, Drago Koren, Dara Lavtijar Bebler, Anton Rop, Mitja Slavinec, Maria Possonec, Breda Pecan from 2.30 p.m. and Roberto Battelli. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - consideration of the Proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. I inform you that this agenda item is being obstructed by LDS, Lipa and SD. Given that there were a number of misunderstandings or many criticisms yesterday, or the above reasons for obstruction, including the conduct or transition from a simple vote to a final vote, this is today to mention that the College on 28 May 2008 accepted the course of this extraordinary meeting at 8.30 a.m. and that there were two options in the debate, whether we go to the opposite vote, as proposed by one group of Members, or whether we keep the tradition of other discussions, that there are first discussions and then a vote in the package. Both options were acceptable. However, the debate showed, in the College and also in the vote, that the opposition vote was supported by SDS, NSI, SLS and SNS. Other opposition parties were opposed to the immediate vote or had briefly rejected the motion for immediate voting. I am therefore surprised that the transition to the final vote was both highly reasoned and unacceptable. I should also point out that, in accordance with Article 86, when non-conclusion arose, I have also decided that, second paragraph of Article 86, "The President may decide at the beginning of a meeting or during a meeting when a vote is taken on the individual proposals to be decided." I don't think this misunderstanding was necessary, and the reason for the obstruction, I think, wasn't very substantial. That's why I'm sorry about the obstruction. We continue to decide on the amendment tabled to the specific part of the proposal for a rebalancing. We are also obliged to vote on Mr Školč, you have no word because you are obstructing. [[...]] We still have to vote on the amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u2	Mr President, I want a procedural explanation regarding your abuse of the Rules of Procedure and the conduct of the sitting.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u3	Mr Školč, please, you will have the opportunity to explain at the College and at the press conferences announced this afternoon, yours and others. So... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[....]] [[It's a decommissioned mixforone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u5	We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Mr Anton Kokal's proposal to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Culture under the sub-programme Art Programmes. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 29. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that a specific part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the development agenda plan. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 3. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have ended by deciding on individual parts of the budget rebalancing proposal. I ask the representative of the Government, is the proposal for a state budget rebalancing harmonised? [[Yeah.]] Since the balance sheet is harmonised, we are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. I am pleased that the balance of the budget provides funds mainly for those most in need of payment, i.e. social transfers, pensions and other benefits. In the National Assembly, we have adopted a series of legislative acts that ensure an improved situation. And now, with the balance of the budget, we also confirm that. Of course, I will also be pleased that some journalists, especially from POP-TV, will understand how it is to pay pensions. If the budget line for the PPA is reduced by 30 million, it shall be reduced because these allowances will be paid directly from the budget and not from the budget treasury and from the budget treasury to individuals. And since citizens have been misinformed about reducing the rights of pensioners, I can firmly say that this is not true. The rights of pensioners do not diminish. This Government has ensured the harmonisation of pensions with salaries and the type of other benefits. In short, it's simple math. If the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government or on a proposal from the parliamentary group, has decided to pay the dradnian allowance directly from the budget, these obligations shall not then be due until the budget of the SPIZ. And so let the press keep the public informed, for then it is understood that the public has been misled. So I will be happy that the journalists will report exactly in the future, but I believe that they did not do it on purpose, but because of the carelessness and poor monitoring of reports and explanations in the National Assembly. And I will support this budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The rebalancing came to the table at the last minute, so we can say it's not the best part. It is true that it has certain positive characteristics, that there is some tendency in the right direction, but I do think that social status and social position in the Republic of Slovenia are still under-appreciated. I think it would make sense if, in spite of all of this, we looked even more closely at the socially most endangered structures and also at higher education. In Slovenia, we are lagging behind Europe in terms of inventiveness. Our higher education institutions do not take into account the current development trends, especially in nature, because things are not simple. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, the links between schools and industry, in particular, is still not in place. And here I think we should give a little more money. Something small has come up, but very little. Perhaps it is the lack where these funds have not been acquired that we do not know how to draw from European funds. European funds in a number of cases go by. We don't know how to sign up for international calls. We don't know how to get that money out there. I think it would be good if we learned something like this, what I know, from the Portuguese, the Greeks, the Italians, who have always cheated the European Union nicely and lived beautifully on this account. At least one small segment of their frivolous knowledge could be used in Slovenia, so we could do more here. We fear in the Slovenian National Party that, despite all of this, we will, or still, pay more or more in the European cash market substantially more than we will get from this European cash register. The funding will flow from Slovenia to the common basket, from which it will be shared for Romania, Bulgaria, Poland, in short, for those countries that are developing and it will happen if we in the former Yugoslavia are actually Slovenians "futrali" 20 million people, of which at least 2 million ecclatant lazy people, we will now "futra" in Europe 100 million lazy people, which is significantly more. I think there's going to be a greater burden on Slovenia, too, and if we have to share money with all of them, I don't know what's left for us. This balance could be better, but of course it could be worse. But we in the SNS Group won't support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u9	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll support this rebalancing. I agree with the speaker, of course I could be better, but I could be worse. Yesterday, I said that it is possible to draw up a financial plan, but that art is possible when the needs are great and the possibilities are, of course, always limited in some way. I am very sorry that the opposition does not want to participate in such an important project as the adoption of the state financial plan. In fact, they do not actually have any strong arguments for the obstruction they have carried out. They do not have any strong arguments for this obstruction, according to my assessment, because there have been no major comments on this budget either. As far as EU funding is concerned, I believe that it is six months before us and that ministers will also have to look at what needs to be done in order to actually make this pump work. Above all, I would like to say here that perhaps there should be little pressure on all those preparing these projects from the Ministry of the Environment and the cohesion spending space, because there may be some delays. And there's one more thing I'd like to mention. She used to be a fellow Squire of principles. I'm very upset with the way it's reported, too. I'm not sure that journalists who listen to us for 20 hours don't understand what we're talking about. I believe they understand, but it's some kind of disinformation plan. Thus, for example, a POP TV journalist reported that pensioners were injured by this budget because the budget reduced their share of pensions by EUR 30 million. I believe that both the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance have explained clearly and distinctly to the Slovenian public. And that all of us in this country know that we have a system where pensions are provided from the PSI and that the missing part is provided from the budget. And it is quite clear that if the number of unemployed decreases or if the number of employees increases, there will also be higher payments to the PES and that the budget is therefore less burdensome. It's simple mathematics and logic. On this basis, the government has reduced the budget needed for pensions by EUR 30 million. And the message that was given to the public yesterday, of course, to those who accompany us, is completely wrong. And I would like to ask Mr Ostyr, I think that this is how he is written, that if he does not understand the matter, perhaps before reporting it, he will once again ask that he understands what we are talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u11	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to the vote. We decide on the 2008 budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the 2008 budget balance of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before we move on to Point 2, let me invite all the parliamentary groups that do not object to joining us at this point. We move on to the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - we are considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2008 and 2009. I inform you that this item of the agenda is being obstructed by the Lip Group of Members. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council. I'm informing you that this point of the day is being obstructed by the Lip Group of Ambassadors. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Council is not suitable for further consideration. The explanation on behalf of anyone wants a word on behalf of the Group of Members? [[...]] [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? Mr. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u12	Thank you very much. On my own behalf, I will not support the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, as it was not possible to hold a substantive debate yesterday, not on this item of the agenda and not on the second item of the agenda of this extraordinary meeting. Therefore, as a Member, I cannot just agree with a decision of the parent working body without giving, in accordance with democratic procedures, the possibility that a substantive debate would be held in the hours set out in the Rules of Procedure in the manner set out in the Rules of Procedure. By voting against this vote, I express, in particular, the protest, the President, against your way of leading yesterday's session.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u13	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Skull, in your own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I myself will not support this proposal for substantive reasons and also for procedural reasons. As you know, we have proposed that we hold a first debate and then vote. Mr Tanko has proposed something else, and there is not much good experience for this in the work of the National Assembly. Since you are always at the service of the ruling SDS, you allowed it, but yesterday you also ate your own word and today again. You and me and others who wanted to tell you something, but you didn't give us your word. That's extremely clear, Mr. President. You can't abuse the position you have to deal with people when you know in advance that you won't give them a word and when it's not even on the agenda. I'm ashamed you're our president.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčič in his own name. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I won't support this marriage either. The law that the Council of State has prepared for itself, for its own gainful desire to get even fatter for the work that is being done here in the National Assembly, I do not think we can really support such a law. I even think it would have been a time to turn off this dark camcorder called the State Council. This appendix of Slovenian Parliamentarianism needs to be operated and removed. He may have a function, but I don't think we know this function. Maybe we'll find her sometime, like, 50 years from now. I think that we should make sure that the Constitution is amended, that the State Council is lifted and it would be wiser to replace the lack of the State Council, although it is difficult to say that this would be a deficit at all, with a larger number of Members. One more time. We're not going to support this marriage. Neither do I. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u17	Thank you. Is there any more interest in self-explanation? I can only see one hand, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u18	Thank you very much. And I think that in all these years, what we've come to our country, the second house of Parliament, this is the State Council, was quite necessary. In this National Assembly, we are busy from morning to evening, and some of us have already melted so much that we cannot actually detect the problems that arise outside, between people, between professions and among all the other groups whose interests we represent here. I must say that the Council of State has well articulated their needs, has also carefully articulated certain solutions that would have been necessary under a particular law, that it has succeeded many times, even recently, with its veto, and that it has been corrective that the National Assembly would not have made any procedures, forgive the expression, the madness that would have had consequences for the Republic of Slovenia. So I think we should talk about putting an end to such a world without having a better solution than the Constitution is now providing us with, unstated action. I am in favour of keeping the world, until we have better solutions, in such a composition, that at least we will have the country in the form we have. It is ours, the only one, to respect the Constitution and to respect the powers of the State Council. They're parliamentarians, just like us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-30-SDZ4-Izredna-36.ana.u19	Thank you. We therefore vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Council is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 36th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Members and Members, I would like to ask you to remove all materials from the Chamber for the preparation of the Chamber for activities related to the Presidency of the European Union. Thank you for your understanding and a nice weekend.
