ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I'm starting with the 40th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlich, France [[Ferry]] Horvat, Ivan Jelen, Miran Jerič, Jožef Jerovšek, Bojan Kontič, Marko Pavliha, Maria Possonec, Franz Pukšič, Alojz Sok, Martin Mikolič - from 15:00 on and Barbara Žgajner Tavš - from 13:00 on. We're moving to 21. At the agenda, this is to consider the proposal for a law on amendments to the environmental protection law. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr. Minister. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning. Dear Members and Members. The current Environmental Protection Act entered into force on 7 May 2004 and was soon amended and updated in 2006, due to new legal acts. The changes we are facing today are also necessary in particular for the transposition of the requirements of new legal acts into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Among the new legal acts, the most important Directive 2004/35 of the European Council on environmental liability in relation to the prevention and recovery of environmental damage which Member States had to transpose into national legal order by 30 April 2007. Yesterday we were informed that the European Commission had decided to bring an action before the Court of Justice of the European Communities against 9 countries because they had not yet transposed the European Union Directive on liability for environmental damage into their national legislation. So the best answer to this procedure will, I hope, be the adoption of today's law and as soon as it is adopted, of course, we will also inform the European Commission. Following the entry into force of the law, several key rules of the European Union have been adopted which are necessary for the implementation of emissions trading. Following the entry into force of the law, the first experimental period of trading in emission vouchers began, which at the time of the adoption of the law was a completely new economic institution for environmental protection. Until then, most European Union Member States have not had experience. However, trade has shown some shortcomings that require a more precise regulation of certain issues. In order to improve the functioning of the eco-development fund, it was necessary to slightly amend and supplement the legislation relating to its operation. The Constitutional Court has decided that the Act on the Conservation of Nature is inconsistent with the Constitution, because it does not contain provisions implementing the requirements of Article 8 of the Aarhus Convention relating to the right of the public to participate in the process of adopting enforcement rules and we have decided to enforce this decision, so this decision of the Constitutional Court will be enforced by amending this law. In order to adopt new legislation in the area of regulation of premises and offences, the current regulation had to be adapted and the implementation of the law had also shown some improvements to the current regulation, in particular with regard to the issue of environmental consents and environmental permits. Allow me to introduce some major solutions. The proposed law lays down, in accordance with the said Directive, a potential cause of a risk to the occurrence of environmental damage or to the occurrence of environmental damage itself. It defines environmental damage limited to major damage caused by specific international and national protected and protected wild plant and animal species, their habitats and habitat types, water or soil. In the event of a risk of damage, the operator shall take all necessary measures and shall inform the Ministry thereof, which may also carry out such measures on its own. In the case of a party to environmental damage, its agent must take all preventive measures and send a proposal for environmental remedial measures to the Ministry for approval. The Directive leaves it to the Member States to decide whether to decide on the concept of objective or false liability in relation to the definition of the responsibility to pay for the implementation of the measures required. Under the law, the concept of objective responsibility for causing or causing environmental damage is proposed. In this respect, it followed already established solutions in the bond code relating to liability for damage caused by dangerous goods or activities. Allow me to introduce briefly a subject related to the Aarhus Convention. The Convention on Access to Information on Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Legal Protection on Environmental Matters contains three pillars: access to environmental information, public participation in decision-making and access to legal protection on environmental matters. The requirements of the Convention relating to access to environmental information, public participation in decision-making and access to legal protection are, except for the requirement of Article 8 of the Aarhus Convention, whereby States Parties are required to allow public participation in the adoption of any enforcement regulations which may have a significant impact on the environment at systemic level already regulated in the applicable Environmental Protection Act. With regard to nature and content, the Environmental Protection Act is also the most appropriate place to regulate the missing requirement of the Convention. Thus, in our view, a decision of the Constitutional Court has also been implemented rationally and systematically, which has established that the Law on the Conservation of Nature is inconsistent with the Constitution because it does not contain the implementation of this Aarhus Convention. That is why we have written down the solutions in the proposed solution and the honourable Members and we propose that you also confirm them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as a working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr Rudolph Petan, President, for further explanation by the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government! Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Environment and Space has considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act submitted by the Government. This should be followed by a reduced procedure, as confirmed by the College of the President of the National Assembly. The Committee was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Environment Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. I was also invited to receive material. In the introductory explanation of the articles of the draft law, the representative of the applicant explained that the proposed amendments and additions would bring to our legal order the requirements of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council environmental liability in relation to the prevention and recovery of environmental damage and the transposition of those requirements of the Directive establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community, taking into account the Kyoto Protocol, which had not been transposed into the 2006 amendment of the Environmental Protection Act. The proposed law will also eliminate the non-compliance with the Constitution, which was established by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by its decision in the absence of compliance with the Aarhus Convention. However, some other minor changes and additions are proposed to improve the functioning of the Environment Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and to improve the implementation of the law in the field of the issue of environmental consents and permits and emissions trading. The Legislative and Legal Service has determined the compatibility of this proposal with the Constitution and the legal system and with the legislative and technical aspects and has commented on certain articles. At the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that the amendments tabled followed their comments in a large way and also pointed out some comments that were not intended to be addressed with the amendments tabled. The draft law was also addressed by the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the Commission for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of the State Council and adopted specific comments to supplement Article 47 of the Act. In the context of the second reading of the draft law, the Committee on Environment and Space, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. In doing so, the Committee also adopted its amendments. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, it was pointed out that the proposal for a law should not follow the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia which established that the Act on the Conservation of Nature was incompatible with the Constitution, since it did not regulate public participation in the process of preparing sub-laws. The representatives of the applicant explained that they had examined the Aarhus Convention and the decision of the Constitutional Court and considered that the finding of non-conformity had been fully resolved and that this solution was certainly part of the Environmental Protection Act because it dealt with the environment in the broadest sense. The finding of non-compliance also refers to other areas of the environment not only to animal and plant species whose favourable status is ensured by Article 26 of the Nature Conservation Act. Therefore, in the event of a different step, it would be necessary to supplement the same content with a number of other laws relating to the environment, such as the Water Act, the Forest Act. The Committee on the Environment and Space, on the basis of the amendment adopted as an amendment to the Committee and the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Services, also adopted its amendment to Article 91. The Committee on the Environment and Space, after having discussed the individual articles of the draft law and after having concluded the debate and the votes on the amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, which is also an integral part of the report of the Committee, is prepared on the proposal of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The rapporteur was then also appointed at the meeting of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Greetings to the Minister and his associates and to all of you. I will try to say something about this law at home, so that from these presentations, which are usually written next, even to those who are meant to, who understand something, especially our people and all of us, who will have to start acting less macho and better in Slovenia to the environment. What is the law on changes and additions to the Law on Environmental Protection? You could say, a little late, but from the heart, the EU directive, which we have adopted a long time ago, has, of course, imposed that these matters, which we are dealing with today, should be regulated by up to 30. 4. 2007, we are now threatened because we are before the European Commission's action that, of course, this will finally cost us something. To understand each other immediately at the beginning, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, the environment is an important value, so we will not oppose this law. Above all, as I have already said, the transposition of the European Directive is a matter for us, and important things seem to us to be passed on to the amendment of the law relating to the functioning of the Environment Fund. We should have an environmental fund in Slovenia, and by this law we give it the opportunity to rename, adapt and take over new offices and thus take over certain areas that have not been well regulated. Interesting solutions are also being passed on with regard to the transposition of the Environmental Responsibility Directive, notably how we will prevent and remedy damage. Two principles have been introduced in European legislation. The first is an objective concept, and the second is a concept of liability. We swear by the concept of objective responsibility for causing or for causing environmental damage. By doing so, we logically follow the solutions in the Bond Code relating to liability for damage caused by dangerous things or activities. We are also interested in the new developments in the areas of trade and the rights to pay for greenhouse gases. Here we must say that the situation in Slovenia is alarming, we do not meet legislative obligations, nor do we meet substantive obligations in the transposition of directives into the Slovenian legal order. In the field of greenhouse gas emissions from transport, I will only tell you the following, and you will immediately understand why. For the sake of transport, Slovenian taxpayers will, for the first time in history, have to pay for excessive air pollution. The government is already counting on it to spend 20 million euros at the end of the year to buy discharges for exceeding the limit of permitted emissions from transport. The quantity of greenhouse gases from transport has only increased by 6% last year, and this year it appears to be a record since Slovenians have increased their turnover by more than 50% on many roads by entering the European Union. Compliance with the Aarhus Convention is also an important solution in this law, as public participation in the adoption of regulations is also stipulated in the procedures. The proposed law provides for appropriate solutions whereby competent ministries and authorities of the local self-government must also ensure public participation in the regulatory process, which may have a significant impact on the environment. However, I must say that practice shows that there is still some work to be done in this area. Of course, the public must not and cannot be the one who can "condemn" or stop" any process, but it is necessary to seek a logical path here so that we can place certain objects in space, taking into account, of course, what the public has to tell us. I am also pleased that in the legislative process, that decision has fallen to place the burden of waste on private land or to the municipalities. We have already overburdened the Slovenian municipalities in the past, and it is right that if someone owns the land from this, of course, he has many benefits, but first he also has an obligation to care and monitor what is happening on his land. There is no doubt that we will say more in today's debate about the law. Finally, let me say that the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia does not oppose the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u8	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General with co-workers! Environmental protection has recently been the top theme of global and European policies, and so is it. The problem is that things are moving slowly and quite difficult, because not only are the actions of individual governments enough, but the only key solution is to change the life patterns of the entire population, especially the developed part of the globe. The new Environmental Protection Act is thus another small step towards improving environmental protection and, although it is a small step, it needs to be supported. It brings some good solutions that can contribute to the improvement of the environmental situation when implemented in a coherent manner. As in all other areas in New Slovenia, we particularly welcome the principle of responsibility. In this case, therefore, the principle of environmental liability in relation to the prevention and recovery of environmental damage, which is the essence of the novel under consideration. In doing so, we agree with the concept of objective responsibility, which means that the cause of greater environmental damage will take care of the damage and will also cover the cost of recovery. Here it should be stressed that there has been some controversy about what this means for the economy, that this is true for greater environmental damage. And greater environmental damage is caused by damage caused to protected plant and animal species and their habitats. The economy, which will operate in accordance with environmental standards and which will comply with the rules and implement all preventive measures to avoid such damage, should therefore not be afraid that this law would cause economic damage or damage. For those who are at risk of environmental safety and who are walking on the edge, however, it is high time to realize that great environmental damage is no longer a joke. In addition, in New Slovenia we welcome the progress made in developing financial instruments that will be available to the Environment Fund so that it can achieve more effectively the objectives for which it was established. We will therefore support the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act in Novi Slovenija. In doing so, we call on the Government to monitor as dynamicly as possible the development of environmental policies at European Union level, so that our legislation in this area develops as closely as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Marijan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Honourable President, Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Good morning. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act regulates the transposition of the requirements laid down in Directive 2004/35 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 which have not been transposed by amendments to the legislation of 2006 and which eliminates certain non-compliances with the Constitution. We support the decision that Slovenia has decided, in accordance with the Directive, to be responsible for paying the costs of implementing preventive and remedial measures for an objective liability model, which is also based on the Slovenian legal regime. The proposed amendments and additions will also eliminate the non-compliance with the Constitution, which was established by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by its decision in the absence of compliance with the Aarhus Convention. We also agree with the introduction into the law of some other minor changes and additions aimed at improving the functioning of the Environmental Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and improving the implementation of the law in the field of the issue of environmental consents and permits and the trading of emission allowances. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that the final protection of the environment is becoming a serious matter to the extreme and that, on the one hand, the relevant legislation is, of course, even more important, how we will implement this legislation or how we will monitor that this is happening in practice. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposed changes are important from a legal and substantive point of view, so we will certainly support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u11	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group. Dr. Pavel Gantar, I invite you to the pay phone. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u12	Dear Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. We have problems in Slovenia with both the introduction and adoption of environmental legislation and the implementation of this environmental legislation. The fact is that this is already, I don't know, another third amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, and some other regulations have changed, which shows that our environmental legislation is at the point when a serious consideration of it is needed and probably also a thorough and expertly verified audit. This work will probably be left to us, to those who will occupy this National Assembly or to occupy this National Assembly in the coming period. A significant example of this is the introduction and implementation and authorisation under the so-called Integrated Prevention and Control Directive, the so-called IPPS Directive - Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control. The deadline for the implementation of this Directive was 31 October 2007, and today, according to the data I have, ARSO has only issued 25% of these licences, while this, such a delay means that companies, both foreign and domestic, who have this permit and, if you want, are more acute environmental and other operating conditions, are in a worse position than those that do not yet have them. This is exactly what the European Union wants to prevent, and that is why we can expect a trial in court and I am also afraid - up to 200 000 euros a day's sentence. As the IPPS Directive has not been implemented. This law does not talk about this, but attempts to simplify this procedure to a certain extent in the field of authorisation and can be carried out more quickly. My opinion, of course, is that unfortunately in the last four years there has been some professional degradation at the Ministry of Environment and Space, that a whole number of people who have been experienced in these matters have left mostly voluntarily, to other jobs, especially outside public administration, and that they are known of this at the work of the Ministry. Otherwise, the bill, as it is written, brings into our environmental order this Directive, the new Directive of the European Parliament, the environmental responsibility for establishing a trading scheme, the elimination of non-compliance established by the Constitutional Court and several other minor amendments. I would mention above all this non-compliance found by the Constitutional Court. It is true that the Law-Legal Service has warned that it would be better, nomotechnically, if we were to resolve the differences, so to speak, in the Law on Nature Conservation itself. However, it must be said and also admitted that, with this solution, as set out in Article 34a, the proposer, if I may say so, killed more flies at one point. Therefore, public participation in the adoption of regulations has extended from nature conservation to the whole environmental area, which is right. We really don't have a problem with this solution in the Group. Another comment we are trying to correct with our amendment. It was also pointed out that certain solutions in Article 78 derogate from the applicable decisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. I would say this because I have already talked about reviewing these authorisation procedures and obtaining permits, that the classic administrative procedure as we know it in Slovenia for the type of authorisations issued under the IPPC Directive is completely or almost entirely inappropriate. This is not the administrative procedure by which you get your ID card. This is a long-term, technically complex procedure that does not suit the administrative procedure. Therefore, in my view, it will be necessary to thoroughly revise and possibly develop the "sui generis" procedures. But of course, experts will have to say the same. We'll support the marriage. We expect our amendment to be supported as well. And in good faith that this time the drafters correctly transposed the directives into our legal order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u14	Nice hello to you all! The law introduced by the Ministry is not bad, but in spite of all that it takes or takes only a few solutions, and we feel that the matter needs to be further broadened, to be rectified. It is quite messy and one of the most unregulated cases is that which happened yesterday when we learned that the European Commission will sue Slovenia in the courts of the European Communities because it has not transposed the directive on liability for environmental damage into its national legislation. There's a lot going on in Slovenia, a lot of shit: destroying a biotope, destroying the environment, not worrying about shipping and recycling. And there are many things that can be solved in a rather simple way. I think it would make sense for the Ministry of Environment and Space to think about building so-called green bridges. A few solutions would have been made with this. In the first place, selected garbage could be collected on these roofs above highways. Then they would be filled with soil, trees would be planted, they would have an extra green coat, animals would have their passages, they wouldn't have been broken into small sections and so on. On the other hand, the Ministry of Environment and Space does not use sufficient inspections. Inspections seem to be their purpose. Nobody gets hurt if they find anything in the middle of nowhere. The analysis of water at the time of the killing of a huge number of fish never proved who was the one who put the chemicals in the water, despite the fact that there was nothing more than one company at the watercourse that could do it and yet no one knows anything, no one is to blame. That's why it's about time something was done here. In Primorska we have waste disposal in the water area, including crushed asbestos plates. When the Slovenian National Party raised this issue, the Ministry made sure that nothing had been found. We've found a lot of things privately. And if we could get our client to analyze that sleepy material overseas, we could prove what's in it. But it couldn't be done, because simple costs would be too great. The Ministry wrote a letter twice saying it was nothing. And I don't blame the minister here, but I blame some at the Ministry who don't do what they should do. And I blame the inspection services that don't do their job. I don't know why we have inspection services. Or to sit there and translate the files? In addition, criminal policy should be that should follow the inspection findings. And certainly, in the event of a violation of environmental legislation, the factory or the company that is in breach of all of this should simply shut down. That's how they do things where they're concerned about the environment. From the environment we live, and if we have a shrinking environment, they will start, they will not start, they will continue, and they will potential genetic errors that slowly emerge and appear here and there. There is also one chemical industry in Kopirska that pollutes the environment to infinity. And what happens when the inspection comes. The inspection three days earlier announced that it would arrive there and clearly, gentlemen, stop production. And because there's no production, there's no pollution, and then the inspection says, "Yeah, we found everything's fine." I think we should do a lot of things here, too. And one more thing, I won't forget. Here inside the government allows you to purchase coupons for carbon dioxide. I think it's just bullshit, I think there's something else to do, but not buying coupons so we can mess with the environment. However, we all feel that the beginning is good and we will support this change of law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Lipa Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honors are here! Dear Minister, believe me, we are truly sorry in the Lipa Group that ecology will not be the topic number 1, 2, 3 or 4 of this year's campaign. However, I believe that you share our opinion when you say it no later than 2012, and that will definitely be so. Not because we want this policy, not because we want citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to do so, but simply because we are forced into this environment, which we are drastically polluting, all together. I don't want to stress anyone, but literally everyone, including us sitting here. By means of a proposal for a law, Slovenia shall transpose the provisions of the European directives on environmental liability for the prevention and recovery of environmental damage. It's a question I'm having. Does this mean that companies of the type of RTH that violate the provisions of the recovery commitments and, for example, fill the mine with prohibited components such as construction waste will finally respond criminally. I think that we can take full responsibility here to the Ministry of the Economy, which loves to warn about the entire mandate, what is happening in this mine, has done absolutely nothing. It introduces some changes in the functioning of the Environment Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and public participation in the adoption of environmental regulations. The question that arises to me, and I believe that there will be enough time in the debate to answer these questions: Does this mean that the story of Kozjak will no longer happen when the remotes are being built without informing the public, the owners of the parcels through which these harmful remotes will be carried out? Not only will the ionizing radiation emitted by the remote control damage health, but it will destroy the environment and the environment. Last but not least, my fellow Member from the Lipa Group of Members sent quite an extensive initiative to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent such construction, which does not involve the general public, to the professional public, from having a building permit on all parcels and more. This route is supposed to be along the eastern Cossack area, so that I do not list the municipalities through which we would go, and dozens of hectares of forests would have to be cut down for such a route. Next. These are rules on environmental protection and nature conservation, the use or protection of parts of the environment, the handling of genetically modified organisms and regulations for which the drafter will find that they affect the environment. Slovenia has already paid the penalty, real citizens and citizens have already paid the penalty for unnecessary exhaust emissions of individual cars. When it comes to the processing of petrol, gas - powered diesel cars, the country has not been able to hear until now. The Ministry's response when it came to subsidising such processing, which was worth € 1500 for one such processing, was that the state did not subsidise it. Maybe that would be a step further. As far as the Environment Fund itself, Mr Minister, is concerned, there is only one question. When we discussed the Mining Act, we focused the funds for the rehabilitation of individual mines on the Eco-fund. When this law is passed, tell me if it will then be necessary to amend the Mining Act in order for someone to come to the warehouse where the money for rehabilitation is being spent. If you don't have to do this, then it's okay. If this is due to a dictatorship in the Mining Act itself, let's do it as soon as possible. And then, I'll say an interesting story. Yesterday, public utilities issued an action by the European Commission against Slovenia for non-compliance with the Environmental Protection Directives, and there is a lack of implementation of certain European Union directives on the protection of the environment. We have already paid one fine of EUR 20 million. If we do not do so, the lawsuit may even be implemented. Therefore, in the Lipa Group, in order to avoid further burdening the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia and respect for nature and ecology, we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u17	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Bručan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u18	Dear President, Minister with the team, hello to everyone! In the Slovenian acquis, these amendments and additions to the Environmental Protection Act transpose the requirements of the Directive of 21 April 2004 on environmental liability in relation to the prevention and recovery of environmental damage and certain requirements of the Directive of 27 October 2004 establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community, taking into account projects of the Kyoto Protocol mechanism, which means that the law governs the management of Kyoto units and emission vouchers. In the SDS Group, we believe that there are solutions to trade in greenhouse gas emission rights in the right direction, as Europe, as well as Slovenia, has recently become increasingly aware of the importance of an effective solution to environmental problems. We also support a solution in law that does not provide for payment for damage caused under the directive, but that the originator must carry out preventive or remedial measures to the extent possible to remedy the damage and to bear all the costs involved. Third parties are also not entitled to compensation. That leaves it to the Bond Code. The law defines environmental damage which, in accordance with the requirements of the Directive, is limited to greater damage caused by specific internationally protected and protected wild plant and animal species, their habitats and habitat types, which are favourably maintained in favourable conditions of water and soil. In the SDS Group we also support solutions that want to improve the effectiveness of the Environmental Fund of the Republic of Slovenia or want to improve some of the existing arrangements and solutions in this area. The existing Environmental Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is renamed and adapted to the new regime in accordance with the Public Funds Act. The individual amendments and additions to the current law relate in particular to certain parts of the environmental consent and environmental authorisation procedure. In the SDS Group, we believe that the law is in line with the European Directive, so it is well prepared. We also believe that sufficient emphasis has been given to appropriate solutions during the examination of the law, so we will support the law. Let me add that, in the SDS Group, we will continue to strive to adopt solutions in the adoption of laws on environmental protection that will, above all, pursue the objective of adequate environmental protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u20	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Unlike other parliamentary groups, we find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection is a reflection of the poor part of the Ministry of Environment and Government in the field of environmental protection. This is reflected in the fact that we are late in the introduction of the directive due to liability in relation to the prevention and recovery of environmental damage, and that is why the European Commission is threatening to sue us. Inadequate compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision is also a solution that we would like to draw particular attention to, because it is an inappropriate regulation of public cooperation in the field of environmental protection. However, the government obviously also wants to continue to avoid this cooperation with an inadequate solution. The lack of reaching the Kyoto Protocol also means that we need to provide €20 million in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to purchase emission vouchers, which is, in fact, a permit for further pollution. These are some of the most basic and important highlights of the law we are talking about. In particular, I would like to point out once again the question of the Constitutional Court's decision and, in our view, both by legal and technical terms, the inappropriate solution chosen by the Government to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. In fact, the Constitutional Court has found that it is contrary to the Constitution of the Act of Conservation of Nature. Today, however, we are amending the Environmental Protection Act, which is supposed to be a statutory law in this area, and then it should apply to all other laws, both for the Nature Conservation Act and for the Waters, Forests Act and so on, unfortunately not, our legal order knows different solutions and we would like to draw particular attention to this. It also follows from the decision of the Constitutional Court that the legislator, taking into account the provisions of Article 8 of the Aarhus Convention in a law giving the authority of the executive branch the power to issue sub-legislative acts governing the protection of the environment, must also lay down procedural rules for the effective inclusion of the public in the preparation of those regulations. So it is also an international act imposing on Slovenia to properly involve the public in the process when we declare individual areas for areas where we want to preserve biodiversity or different animal species. In Slovenia, to illustrate, these procedures are indeed in violation of this international and our legal order. Who in Parliament or any of the municipalities in Slovenia are informed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has increased the Natura 2000 area from 33% of Slovenian territory to 36%? None of the public planning interventions to the space, but the local communities are the main ones in planning the use of space, have been involved in this process and the Government has not informed them. This points to the fact that the Government is in contact with and taking into account the public interest in their development needs. It is even more painful because this is happening in areas that need important access or effective access to infrastructure tomorrow, and this can also ensure further development, but the Government, while placing routes in a road building area, will announce Natura 2000 in the same area, meaning that it will deliberately prevent the development of individual areas in the Republic of Slovenia. With such solutions, which also do not end the Environmental Protection Act, because today we should discuss the decision of the Constitutional Court on the Law on Nature Conservation. Such a poorly prepared marriage cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u21	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. In doing so, I inform you that the Group of Members has indeed tabled two amendments, but has withdrawn the other. Thus, we have only one amendment from the Group of Ambassadors to Article 21. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 21 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Gantar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. This amendment follows the view of the Legal and Legislative Service that, unfortunately, Article 21(2) is not possible, the record of what is contained in the record, the data of which is to be contained in this record provided for in Article 21, shall be supplemented by the addition, in the second paragraph of Article 21, of which shall be entered in the register. The full name of the legal person, surname or surname, then the address of the legal person, contact person, contact details, information on the official hours for the parties and, of course, that this record is for the purpose of informing the public, to be published on the Ministry's website and is available free of charge. In this way, we meet the requirement for information to the public, but, of course, it is also in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. I think that this is a practical amendment that is worth supporting in further discussion and vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u24	Thank you very much. This proposed amendment, as proposed by the Zares Group, has two elements. According to the Government, certain solutions are already contained in other provisions of the law. One provision and no information on the official hours for the parties is required in our opinion. Let me explain why. First of all, about the content itself. Article 8 already states, if you look at Article 21, paragraph 8, of this Act, which amends Article 55 of the current law, that the register of authorised producers of environmental reports and environmental impact reports is an integral part of the register on Article 104 of the current law referred to by the Member of Dr. Gantar and that the fourth paragraph of this Article of the current law already specifies which data must contain a record of persons having the power or certification of the Ministry to carry out certain environmental protection tasks. If I mention them: the personal name and address of the permanent or temporary residence or of the company, then the seat, type and scope of the activity to which the authorisation or certificate relates, as well as the information on the authorisation and certificate issued. This is the kind of information that your amendment basically summarizes and is, in fact, already contained in the law in force. In fact, your amendment brings only one new solution, which is information on the official hours for the parties and here we think is a meaningful discussion, and in our opinion it is information about the official hours for the parties, on the fact that the authorised producers of environmental reports or environmental impact reports, individuals of private law who will produce reports on the basis of an agreement with the contracting authority or on the basis of a contract concluded, then data on the official hours for the parties do not seem necessary, due to the very nature of the work and the relationship between the contracting authority and the manufacturer of the environmental reports. Therefore, due to the fact that much of the proposed solutions already contain the law and that the fourth solution due to the very nature of the relationship between the manufacturer and the contracting authority is unnecessary, the Government opposes this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u25	Thank you. Anyone else? Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 20th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. On the day-to-day basis, this is to be considered a proposal for a roadside law for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass of more than 3,500 kg. The draft law was tabled by the Government. Since the representative of the Government or the Minister is not yet in the National Assembly, I propose that we proceed and give him our word when he comes. Do you want us to stop? Mr. Weber, yes. We'll interrupt the session and continue in eight minutes, that's 10:00. I hope the Minister will be joining us by then.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u26	Because the Minister is on his way to extend the break for four minutes until 10.05.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u27	Because the minister is still on his way to extend the break until 10:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u28	We are therefore under the Toll Code proposal for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,500 kilograms. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. It's a crane. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u29	Dear Members and Members! Nicely greeted! Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'm sorry I'm a little late. The Toll Act for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,500 kg will provide a comprehensive legal basis for the collection of tolls, not only on motorways, but also on the other national network, on those main and regional roads which are qualified for the distance transport of freight vehicles. The preparation and adoption of this law is one of the key steps in the introduction of the electronic toll system in the free movement of transport, as the law will serve as a basis for the introduction of completely new organisational and functional forms and technical procedures necessary for the introduction of this state-of-the-art toll system. There are several reasons for the new regulation. The first reason is the implementation of the Directive amending the Road Road Fees Directive for the use of certain infrastructure for heavy goods vehicles, the so-called Euro Veneto Directive 2006. This is a change that introduces the following important news. Firstly, tolls are mandatory on the trans-European road network. Secondly, the non-discrimination of use for international transport is extremely stressed and detailed. Thirdly, the Directive allows for certain reductions or exemptions of tolls for vehicles which are exempt from the obligation to install and use tachographs. Fourthly, the new directive allows very restrictive exemptions on tolls and limits them to 13%. Fifthly, the directive lays down in great detail the principle of reimbursement of infrastructure costs, i.e. the cost of construction and maintenance of roads. These costs are regulated in detail and set out the basic principles, the methodologies for their calculation. Six, to a new and much more detailed extent than so far, regulates the possibility of adjusting the toll according to the driving time or the euro emission class of the vehicle. For the week, the new directive also allows to pay tolls up to 25%, and it regulates them in detail and insists on their non-discrimination. The second reason related to the requirement of the Directive on the interoperability of electronic toll systems in the European Union, adopted in 2004, requiring the introduction of free movement tolls, is to ensure that the services of inclusion in European electronic tolling are carried out by licensed tolling providers as a market activity. At the same time, the law provides for a specific body in the composition of the Ministry of Transport, the so-called toll authority, which will carry out administrative tasks relating to the interoperability of electronic tolling. The key provisions and activities relating to the planned new toll are set out in the government action plan for the introduction of an electronic toll system in free circulation under the conditions for interoperability in the European Union adopted on 19. 7. and provides that the deadline for the introduction of electronic tolling based on satellite technology for trucks is 31 July 2009. The adoption of the proposed law is also a prerequisite for the implementation of this deadline, as it constitutes a legal basis for the implementation of an international public tender based on a public-private partnership, which will elect a concessionaire, the so-called bound tolling provider, who will establish and fully finance the new toll system. Dear Members and Members, on the basis of amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads, which you have adopted at the May meeting, will be introduced on Tuesday, i.e. in four days, for vehicles up to 3,500 kg of the mass permit a vignette toll system will be introduced. However, the proposed law will, as has already been said, allow for the introduction of free movement tolls for vehicles whose maximum weight permits exceed 3,500 kg, thereby allowing to travel on toll roads in the Republic of Slovenia to take place in full without stopping to pay the toll. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u30	Thank you. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Gezi Juban, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greeting, Mr. Minister, with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Transport Committee shall be held at its 24th emergency meeting, on 12. 6. examine the draft toll law for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,500 kg, transmitted by the Government to the National Assembly in the legislative procedure. 6. 2008 The Government proposes that the proposal for a law be dealt with in an urgent manner. In the introduction, the Directorate-General for Roads, the Ministry of Transport, Dr. Vidic, provides reasons for the adoption of the bill. We have heard the explanation a little earlier from the Minister and I will not repeat it again. Among other things, it was important for the Committee to implement the requirements of the directive requiring the introduction of free movement tolls in such a way that transport takes place at an uninterrupted rate or only with a reduced speed adjustment. This requires a detailed legal regulation of the obligations of drivers, control of tolling, including the introduction of special authorised persons - toll supervisors, the arrangements for the powers of these supervisors, and in particular the possibility of forcible recovery of the toll due. All of these changes are so extensive that they require a whole new regulation and a new bill is proposed. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly drew particular attention to the protection of personal data which could have been violated under the proposed law, while also making specific comments to individual articles of the bill. The Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the National Council supports the bill and has pointed out the poor flow of traffic on toll roads, in particular those that do not meet all the technical characteristics of motorways. In accordance with Article 126, 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee held a debate and a vote on the articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. The members of the committee supported the solutions contained in the bill, but pointed out the possibility of introducing a new method of tolling and all government activities, which could also require additional resources from the state budget, which the bill does not provide. At the same time, they expressed fear that Dars could not, in the event of financial difficulties in the construction of the motorway system, cover funds to repay credit obligations and the State guarantee should be enforced. Representatives of the Government have ensured that the proposal of the law ensures financial neutrality with regard to the state budget's assets while introducing a new method of tolling will ensure a satisfactory flow of resources for Darsa's operation. The Committee adopted the proposed amendments to the coalition. After the discussion on the articles of the bill and the amendments tabled in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u32	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u33	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Something is clearly moving, already the third Prekmurec at this point of the agenda, but if the prekmurska motorway transversa is still open in August, this will be suspiciously good. Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. So on the table we have a new law, which is more simple to say, regulates the toll of freight vehicles or more precisely and taught - toll of vehicles whose maximum permissible mass exceeds 3 and a half tonnes. However, let me remind you that on 25 April this year, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads, which, for passenger cars or more precisely, for vehicles whose maximum permissible total mass does not exceed 3 tonnes, introduced toll payments with wine, namely for the use of all toll roads in the Republic of Slovenia, for a certain period of time. There are in particular two reasons for the new regulation and for the adoption of this proposal. The first is the adoption in 2006 of a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on road charges for the use of certain infrastructure for heavy goods vehicles. The Directive provides, inter alia, that tolls are compulsory on the trans-European road network. And the second reason is the connection to the first one. The implementation of the requirements of the Directive requires the introduction of tolling, in free traffic, such as tolling in which toll stations, at least in a certain part, that is to say for certain vehicles, no longer have road closures, so that traffic takes place at an uninterrupted rate or only with a reduced speed adjustment. This requires detailed legal arrangements for the obligations of drivers, for the control of tolls, including the introduction of personal authorised persons, for the arrangements of powers and supervisors, and in particular for the possibility of forcible recovery of the toll due. All these changes are so extensive that they require a completely new regulation and a new toll law is proposed for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3 tonnes. In the New Slovenia Group, we would like to point out that the toll system is good if it is effective if it has good control and control. The toll system must be fair, meaning that the use of toll roads is paid by each user for each meter of use of the toll road. In view of our Slovenian way of financing the construction and maintenance of toll roads, especially motorways, we must not afford an inefficient system. If we pick up only two thirds today, that means 66% of tolls on motorways, then the new system with new technology must, in our opinion, provide more than at least 95% efficiency. It is recommended that these requirements be incorporated into contracts with the toll system provider. It is also recommended that those responsible be given a defined incentive or reward in the said contract if the toll operator achieves greater efficiency than 95%, for example. We've invested a lot of money in our road infrastructure. Because of the great increase in road traffic, we can find out that a lot of money is lying on our roads, only we need to know how to collect that money. We are of the opinion that the proposal for a law is an appropriate answer to the question raised. We in the New Slovenia Group support the law. The Ministry of Transport, Darsu, and to the toll system operator, we want much success in implementation and to the users as comfortable as possible on Slovenian toll roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u34	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u35	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament, and Members of Parliament. We are aware that we must implement the commitment under Directive 2006/38 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17. 5. 2006, which amended the 1999 Directive, which obliges the Member States of the Union to adopt the law and other provisions necessary to comply with it, which is an additional reason to take into account when considering the proposed law. It seems important to us that Member States are allowed to introduce tolls on other roads under certain conditions of non-discriminatory use, to ensure non-discriminatory use for international traffic, to allow certain reductions or toll exemptions for vehicles which are exempt from the obligation to install and use tachographs, up to 13%. New and much more detailed provisions are made for the possibility of adjusting to the toll according to the time of the journey or the emission class of the euro transport. It sets out in detail how to calculate weighted average tolls for individual tolls and parts of toll roads and sets out the different obligations of Member States to inform the Commission. We agree that this is such an important and extensive provision that a new, special toll law is needed for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3500 kilograms. The implementation of the requirements of the Directive requires the introduction of free movement tolling by means of an uninterrupted speed or a reduced speed adjustment. This requires a detailed legal regulation of the obligations of drivers, control of tolling, including the introduction of special authorised persons, the regulation of their powers and, in particular, the possibility of forcible recovery of unpaid toll. In addition, we are convinced that the proposal of the law ensures financial neutrality with regard to the state budget's resources, while the introduction of a new method of tolling will provide sufficient resources to settle Dars' obligations arising from the obligation to build a motorway programme. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will be supported by the draft law following an urgent procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u36	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! On Friday’s rather peaceful part of our National Assembly, it seems to me that we pay relatively little attention to this law. The dry-spoken law brings two directives into the legal order, namely the Directive on road charges for heavy goods vehicles and the Directive on the interoperability of electronic systems, toll systems in the community. This law is still relevant in view of the future regulation of the toll system in Slovenia, where we are coming to the introduction of vignettes for passenger vehicles and the progressive satellite tolling for heavy goods vehicles. However, it is likely that when we adopt this law, we do not realize what this will mean in the areas of tolling and what the sums are in play, with the system being enforced, they say, in a year, two, perhaps sooner or later. I'm sure there are sums here that are much larger than the sums that we spend on long and wide on the famous patries and so on. It is important to know that the Dars law takes the power to be an operator of an electronic toll system. Under this law, the operator is supposed to become an economic company set up by Dars and the Republic of Slovenia, and that is, in my opinion, simply selling fog. Dars is 100% state-owned and the country is, if I am not mistaken, 100% state-owned, and these two partners are 100% state-owned, each in their domain, so to speak, establishing an economic society that is 100% - which? - probably state property. And there is no need, apart from Dars, who is now an operator of a classical system, to establish another economic society, unless we want a transparent toll system and additional commissions that this company, which is 100% state-owned, will collect from a 100% state-owned country and Darsa, which is 100% state-owned. This is really some ridiculous solution and completely inappropriate. It is even worse that, of course, the law introduces, in article 24, a compulsory tollee, which is a person of private law, and this is said in the law that a person of private law cannot be a person of public law. Why not, I don't know, it could be either one or the other, we could make that decision. I don't mind that there's private law. But why only private law. And of course it provides, maintains and restores an electronic toll system. And here I am telling you now that this invitation to tender will come out, this battle will be worse than the battle for the patriot, if I may say so. And for bigger sums and bigger amounts. And these things are already being prepared on the market. If you follow, who buys something, which companies are buying each other and these things are already going in this direction and it will be very interesting to observe it. And I think that this law is the least traceable path to irrationality, if anything. I'm not a man who would accuse in advance, but I'm alerting you to the traps that appear here. It is also interesting that the 28th paragraph, which defines the technology for free movement tolling, also defines the method of tolling with microwave technology at the frequency of 5.8 gigahertz, is called non-satellite tolling. So, exactly the technology that Dars brought to the government in 2006 as a change in tolling in the free traffic flow for trucks and for passenger vehicles and was rejected by the Government just before reception, turned the wheel 180 degrees and went to another system. Why, how, we will also see about this, and unfortunately we will find out. So 5.8 gigahertz is also a standardised interoperable frequency for free-flow tolling. And these, of course, had to be put in, because this is, of course, a directive. Significantly little attention is paid to the problem of data. A double thing, an operator and a committed provider will have incredibly high quality data at their disposal. All the vehicles, all the frequencies, he'll know all about it. And with that information, if we don't protect them, we can do a lot. Not to mention that there is not enough privacy and data protection. In short, this is a law that will be written and spoken of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u38	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u39	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We have heard quite a few critical words now from Mr Gantar, who I actually agree with. In our parliamentary group, we have some other concerns, especially the question of why the law, when every matter is written in the law, "government will sign this in more detail", "government will determine the amount of the toll", "government will determine this by decision", "the introduction of the toll will be decided by the government" and so on. In short, why is it that marriage material, when it is actually written in marriage, will be determined by the government. I think it makes sense for the matter to be made more firm, but not to put it roughly, but then, given the situation, we'll determine what it is and what it's not. It is also interesting that we are going here to toll these trucks and take into account the possibility of determining which vehicles for which no toll is paid. On the other hand, I think it would make sense to set an additional toll for certain specific trucks due to ecological pollution or, say, a so-called ecological tax. Why not that? In Montenegro, they simply introduced an ecological tax on all cars arriving in Montenegro, and Europe was not getting very excited. After all, they also have the euro there, or essentially had the euro as Slovenia before, and they did not ask anyone, and Europe simply walked away from everything. In short, if you do it your way, they'll somehow plug you into the system, or else they'll slap you left, right, and play with you. We must not forget that the European Commission of Slovenia has sent the first official reminder for failure to implement the legislative package of the first railway package, and perhaps we should also find in here some connection with this law and consider that as many trucks as possible should be put on the railways. A lot of benefits would be from that. On the one hand, because ecology would have been more taken into account, pollution would have been significantly lower, of course the railway would have profited in the transport of these trucks and so on and so forth. The idea arises that this law is prepared in such a way as to state what the government will provide subsequently, that the government will be able to make certain compromises with carriers, that with this company of car carriers it will be possible, what I know, to agree on "strikes" or against "strikes" to decide whether there is something to add, where to let go, instead of determining exactly what needs to be done and what doesn't need to be done. Given the so-called "space tolling." I call it space tolling because there's no way it'll be operational in two years. I think it'll be operational in 10 years, maybe. Because there is still a lot to be done so that we can satellite toll trucks, especially because of the fact that a whole bunch of trucks are rolling along Slovenian roads, which are already technically inadequate and are, I would say, on the verge of breathing out on Slovenian road somewhere and spreading - what and how they will have these preparations for satellite tolling! I think that this matter is far ahead of us, and it would make more sense for us to take on some more concrete issues, and if we want to bring more money to the state budget - let us also introduce those ecological charges for certain trucks, especially for Croatians, for example, and put as many trucks on the railways as possible. I think that would do a good job for the country in several segments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Lipa Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Respectable present. Dear Minister, allow me to take this opportunity at the outset and not to you, not to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, because I am sure that this was your opinion, I congratulate you for your reply, which you have given to all of Croatia's observations about the introduction of vignettes. I believe that this is your answer, and by the Lipa Group, it seems to us that the answer was quite concrete. As far as these vineyards are concerned, it is possible only as an intermezzo, let us introduce in Slovenia why not daily, and let them "cost" 10 euros to meet formal needs and make more money on this account. But if I return to the Toll Bill for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,500 kilograms. I have to say, the law only applies to vehicles that exceed that weight or tonnage, however we reverse it. It shall be paid according to the distance transported along the toll road. One species might say, even maybe "go boxing" system. I also agree with the fact that it is possible, given that our southern border is the Schengen border, to examine the kind of trucks these trucks are, but not only because they could be "cassified" more, to impose some new taxes on them, but I will say in favour of the fact that Slovenia has already been punished with EUR 20 million for excessive exhaust emissions in our country. And in this case, I believe that at least, and I will not exaggerate, 15% of these emissions are caused by foreign trucks that do not meet European exhaust emission standards. As far as the construction of roads is concerned, Prekmurje has been mentioned several times and we will all be happy when the road between Mursko and Maribor is finished, but in the Lipa Group we also have another proposal - given that the proposals for the removal of freight from these roads, the laying on the railways, did not run into fertile ground - that the difference in the price saved by the State - does not go to you, Mr Minister, this is the former Minister of Transport, because he did not make any so-called SOS belt and the country here saved something. I think it was fair and fair that, if we have already saved this difference, we will give this difference to the people who, for decades after Prekmurje and Styria and in Pomurje, suffered the damage of thousands and thousands of trucks that have fallen across this road. As for the fact that we have excluded certain trucks from the tolling framework, it seems to me that, or in the Lipa Group, we are confident that this is to a certain extent correct if we think a little about which trucks we are talking about and we are not just talking about as one of my predecessors who said this is wrong. You know, when roads are built, there are also state trucks on these roads, which are a support for the construction of these roads, and it's not right to burden and to tow them if they're transporting asphalt for some road to be asphalted. They're basically doing us good when it comes to trucks, and it's the same thing that we've exempted. It bothers me or bothers us, in the Lipa Group, the fact that everything is too much, and it seems to me that it was easier to bring them into law, as stated in the law, for the government to prepare them with a certain regulation. I believe that the National Assembly, not members of the National Assembly, is the "where-to-where" people we represent in this Parliament, that they will meet such a regulation at any time. The problem with these regulations is that we face its consequences most of the time. And I would simply be very happy if all these things that you intend to do in the regulation, the law were a couple of pages longer, listed in the law. If we have open intentions and if we really want to change the toll system for trucks, then I don't know why we should hide. But it is one thing, a change in the toll system, at least in the last ten days, I must say that these columns that appear at toll stations on the route Maribor - Ljubljana, probably also onward, I can only speak for the relations that I drive on were unsustainable. If this were the reason for a better and greater flow from 1.7, then it was worth enduring. But if it doesn't, as we warned, then it's the mistake of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u42	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Tomaž Štebe will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I will limit myself to the presentation of the position, even though I am concerned with the language to discuss it, but in view of the predecessors' presentations - "the guy without the turret has never slept with the girl." In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the strong engagement of the current Minister and Government of the Republic of Slovenia to introduce a new system and organisation of tolling on highways, fast roads and parallel state roads. It is about introducing a more modern, functional and more balanced and fair system, and above all it is a more friendly system for users, which enables them to spend less time and less time and greater travel safety. It will be achieved by introducing payment for the time-use of motorways for passenger cars and engines next month and by means of this proposed law introducing a new tolling system with regard to the distance transported for vehicles over 3.5 tonnes of total permissible mass as of August next year on motorways, fast roads and parallel state roads. It is also important that two, the abolition of an inadequate tolling system, be the abolition of toll stations and the implementation of directives introducing the proportionality of tolls or charges in relation to the resulting infrastructure costs and environmental damage. The implementation of the requirements of the Directive requires the introduction of a new electronic tolling system in free circulation. This is such an automatic identification of the toll or use in proportion to the distance carried, at which the driving, vehicles, traffic and driver are completely unobstructed. This requires a detailed legal regulation of the obligations of operators, concessionaires or toll operators, drivers, toll control, including the introduction of special authorised persons. The adoption of the proposal for a tolling law for freight vehicles is also necessary from an economic point of view. Heavy freight transport generates the most costs on infrastructure and most environmental damage. An inadequate proportional share of the toll is collected according to the share of all other vehicles and the electronic toll system for the entire toll network in the Republic of Slovenia should therefore be implemented as soon as possible. With the current tolling conditions, a substantial number of tolls will be collected on the entire toll network, thus providing funds to pay for construction obligations and to build motorways and fast roads even faster. As we say, we will support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is the basis and essential condition for the implementation of electronic tolling in free traffic. Slovenia introduces, among the first, such a modern, extensive toll system. This is a relatively demanding information system. It may even be the first to implement it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u45	Thank you for your word and once again welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The Tolling Act for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,500 kilograms, in our view, the National Assembly should not be considering at all today, since such poorly explained law does not allow for a good debate and understanding in the National Assembly, in fact, of what it means to enact such a law. Indeed, the National Assembly has no justification nor has the Government's action plan for the introduction of a satellite toll system been presented to it. We can only learn from the media that preparations are under way for the implementation of the satellite toll system, which should have been introduced in Slovenia since 1.8.2009. Therefore, it is not the reason that we want to have a successful tolling system in this law, but the aim is only to grant concessions to the future bidder for the construction of the tolling satellite system and no matter how much it costs. And the very question of how much tolling will cost in Slovenia is that which is also not presented in this law by chance. The explanation that the law will have no financial implications for the state budget is, to say the least, very humiliating to the National Assembly. Indeed, we are aware that Dars will be in charge of EUR 4 billion to build an existing highway system and we should be concerned about how we will repay these leased loans for which the National Assembly has adopted a guarantee law, which means a direct burden on the state budget if the tolls are not collected at an appropriate level. However, the government is taking another course that is clearly understood only by her and some individuals. In fact, the bill regulates a new way of tolling in free traffic and foresees that we will get an operator who will be a company set up by Dars and the state. It is intended to ensure the direct operation of this system and the tenderer chosen by the State in the tender will establish, maintain, maintain, and regulate the relationship with users. All of this will be built by this tenderer with his private resources, and how much he will collect from the tolls this tenderer does not know the National Assembly from this law. So if we don't know how much it's going to be to build an electronic toll system or a satellite toll system, we don't know how much money we have left to pay for the loans. And this simple key issue in this law is not even mentioned in the word. A small comfort is Article 28 which speaks of the fact that, by introducing a European electronic toll system, the operator must provide tolling in the free course of transport for the use of one or more of the following technologies. So, both satellite positioning, mobile communications and microwave technology. Well, we already have a toll system in Slovenia for the introduction of microwave technology that can allow tolling in free traffic, but in Slovenia we do not decide to upgrade this and to work on what we know, we decide something that Europe does not know at all. Europe's satellite toll system is not harmonised, it is only introduced in Germany, and nowhere else has this system been put in place. However, in the explanation of the law, we have also been able to read very clearly that the State of the bound tolling provider will choose and grant him exclusive rights and that exclusive right of the electronic tolling system will apply until the European electronic tolling system is in place and, as I have said, there is no satellite system in Europe. So we're going to directly grant someone the right to develop something, when and how it's going to develop, and I don't think we're going to know for a long time, but we're going to spend a lot of money. That's why we won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u46	Thank you. Mr Geza Juban will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again for a nice welcome. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we discussed the proposal for a toll law for vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,500 kilograms. So we have before us a law that is supposed to be a comprehensive legal basis for the collection of tolls not only on motorways but also on the other state network. After a thorough examination of the reasons for the adoption of this law, including a critical view of certain areas and of the problems that arise now and will also be in the future, some of them have also been highlighted on the Committee on Transport, the issue of debt, the financing of Dars, and so on, we have decided, nevertheless, that we will not oppose the law. However, our decision would be made in the following way; therefore, we have before us a law governing the fixing of the amount of the toll, which will be determined by the Government on the basis of these legal provisions. It is precisely through the determination of the amount of toll will also reflect our country's transport and environment policy, which gives a great deal of relief to transit road freight. On the other hand, we must not forget the increase in costs due to the energy problem in this area, and this is the part that we include in our country's future transport and environment policy. The weighted average toll will thus include the toll costs of tolling tolls, i.e. construction, operation, maintenance, development of the roads of an operator or part of such toll roads. The next toll component, the premium on so calculated weighted average toll, is the so-called toll adjustment with a view to preventing environmental damage and congestion, reducing toll damage, optimizing the use of toll roads and so on. In our opinion, the relationship between weighted average tolls for individual tolls will also be extremely important, of course, when tolling in the free traffic is in effect also for passenger vehicles. The ratio between the toll level for passenger vehicles and the toll amount for freight vehicles in force in the toll system to date has, in our opinion, been significantly too small. However, by determining the amount of the toll, which will certainly have to ensure the long-term financial sustainability of Darsa and thus the construction of Slovenian motorways, the transport policy of the Government, which will determine this toll, will also be reflected. In short, to conclude, with our basic position on the bill, we will not oppose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u48	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 20th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Second table of proposals for the Law on Fundamental Development Programmes in the field of science and higher education in the years 2010 to 2014. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with Mr Rudolf Mohet, the first to be signed. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to Mrs Eva Irgle, Vice-President of the Committee, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go, Mrs. Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, at its 23rd regular session, discussed the draft law on basic development programmes in the field of science and higher education in 2010-2014, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by the Group of Members, with Mr Rudolf Mohet, first signed. In its opening statement, Slovenia has so far provided additional funding for education, higher education and scientific activities under specific laws. Under these laws too, the educational structure in Slovenia alone has increased significantly, and the number of graduates, university and higher education programmes is significantly higher than in 1991. The Legislative and Legal Service also pointed out that the proposed law interferes with the area governed by national programmes for research and development and higher education under system laws. While national programmes have not yet been adopted for the period covered by the proposed law, the question is also raised as to the extent to which the proposed funds are additional. The Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, said that the state budget or way of increasing the budget is limited by GDP growth, which also affects the increase of the budget for higher education and science. As a result, the enlargement in the manner envisaged in the draft law is not appropriate. It also noted that the 2008 and 2009 budgets for higher education and science have increased significantly compared to previous years. It therefore sees no reason for these activities to need additional resources, as provided for in the proposal for a law. Members and members of the Committee discussed in particular whether the law was suitable for further consideration or not. Representatives of the opposition felt that the law providing additional resources for the development of higher education and science was needed because certain budgets did not meet the needs for those purposes, especially if we wanted to improve the quality of higher education and achieve a higher level of research activity. On the contrary, the representatives of the position felt that we do not need a law providing additional resources because it is non-systemic and should provide resources for this purpose in budgets based on the adopted national research and development programme and the national higher education programme. Following a discussion on the proposal for a law, the Committee of 6 for 5 v. adopted the following decision: The draft law on basic development programmes in the field of science and higher education in 2010-2014 is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u50	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Rudolph Mohet, representative of the bill's proponents, to present his position on the proposal of his mother's working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u51	Mr President, the Minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleagues! Good-bye! So far, Slovenian parliamentarians have been happy to be something special in the society of European nations, since we have been the only ones in all the mandates so far concerned that the resources in education have always been added by some special law, which has allowed us, not least, to become the first of the transition countries to compete in Europe by all indicators. It must be said that all the political parties have sworn that Slovenia will be a knowledge-based society and that we have tried to achieve the objectives set by the Lisbon Strategy, which was given by the Bologna Declaration, which was copied by the Bergen Communications provided by the National Higher Education Programme and which gave a national research programme. All is well and well, but this year the law on basic development programmes in the field of education - deadlines is expired. So far, we have always invested in two key factors of stability, which is security, so this National Assembly has adopted a law on fundamental defence development programmes of 710 million. We have repeatedly warned Members of the Government and the Government only to introduce a similar law in the field of education that would enable us to develop. I think that MEPs have shown themselves many times, including by their laws, that they need more resources for higher education. Remember the establishment of Emuni, remember not long ago this establishment of a new university in New Town, remember that we said it would be good, that all high school students also have a free diet of 37 million tolars, and it seems to me that the time has come for Members of this call, with their powers here, to indicate that they will continue this tradition and that we will invest in knowledge further. That this is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, we have received several letters from the proponents. I would just like to tell you that because Slovenia has increased the number of students from 30,000 to 100,000 at this turbulent stage of development by establishing a concession or by helping with a concession of more than 40 higher education institutions, that the money was not enough and the universities helped themselves to obtain additional funds through the tuition of students who were subsequently enrolled. However, the regulation, which was adopted - you did not adopt it, Minister, but you were our colleague at the time - has done so in Article 3 - this is the only regulation giving money to higher education institutions - says that the budget for higher education is actually increasing every year at least for gross domestic product growth, but not less than 2.5%. Indeed, the funds were increasing this way, but because the number of students increased as the new colleges came along, the funds were not allocated to study activities, and the study activity is the main activity of these higher education institutions, which is due to the Bologna renovation of the largest renovation. So, here universities have received and this document also says: "Resources for national important tasks" - and national important tasks are certainly programme renovations - "so they are intended for higher education in the public information service, care for Slovenian, mentoring and individual fulfilment of the scholarships of the Republic of Slovenia. There's no mention of "Bologna" in a single word. For this reason, it has seemed wise for us to introduce the law, and we ask you, honourable Members and Members, because there is very little that this House can, once we have finished this call, see to it that it has invested additional resources to ensure that this country will live in greater prosperity, but not that we will be the first Parliament - for I am saying good-bye to you forever with this mandate - the first Parliament that has invested only 710 million in arms, but that it has not been able to win 65 million in four years and to give it to higher education, although this high education still needs blood. In my personal name and on behalf of the applicants, I sincerely thank everyone who opposes the proposal of the parent working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u52	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for the presentation of the position, Mrs Mojci Kucler Dolinar, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u53	Dear Members, Members of Parliament, a nice greeting, a distinguished president! While the proposal for a law on basic development programmes in the field of science and higher education suggests some possibilities for additional funding in the field of higher education and science and funding mechanisms, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, have already been aware of the importance and size of the proposed legislation of those activities and have already acted in accordance with its competences through existing mechanisms. Let me just list a few of the most important activities. The development of study programmes, i.e. in terms of Bologna reconstruction, then here is the involvement of external lecturers in the study process. Let me mention here just two open calls, one in terms of a €130,000 renovation of Bologna programmes and a €2 million call for development tasks. Then funding for young researchers from the economy, only on this year's call, was granted to 69 young researchers in the economy and in addition to those authorised through a research development agency of more than 100. Here are the centres of excellence and funding of research work at universities, modernisation of research equipment, provision of suitable premises, subsidisation of student residences, here we are talking about the appropriate premises in the infrastructure of the college itself, as well as student homes. These activities are financed through calls for European Structural Funds, through calls for development tasks in higher education and other systemic instruments that are already made possible by the rules. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would seek and plan to gradually increase funding for higher education and science to the extent that we estimate that it will be cumulatively larger than the solution in the draft law over a five-year period. Last but not least, let me mention the increase in resources in the last balance sheet of the budget. In view of the fact that already existing sub-programmes in the field of higher education and science enable funding mechanisms for areas and also the impact of the Government's proposal does not support this, because, as has been said, existing mechanisms, programmes in the field of higher education and science have already made this possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u54	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! In the opinion of the applicant, the draft law would help to further develop, in accordance with the Bologna Guidelines, such study programmes which would offer sufficient selectivity to meet labour market requirements, so that the number of higher education teachers and co-workers could be increased, so that researchers from public research institutions and the economy could be involved in tertiary teaching activities and, last but not least, in order to increase the international mobility of students. That's what he's saying. We all know that the state budget or way of increasing it is limited by the growth of GDP, which also affects the increase of the budget for higher education and science. We believe that enlargement should be geared towards the right objectives and that budget resources should be devoted particularly to development and research purposes. The proposed law, however, deviates from the legal regime, the establishment and financing of development programmes in the field of science and higher education. The Law on research and development activities in Article 7 provides that the basis for guiding and determining the volume of State budget resources for the implementation of research and development activities is the national research and development programme, which, inter alia, lays down strategic development areas and national priorities for the financing of research and development activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u56	Thank you. Dr. Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u57	Thank you very much for the third time today, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Madam Secretary. We will indeed vote against the Committee's decision that the Basic Development Programmes Act in the field of science and higher education is not suitable for further consideration. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The situation in the field of higher education and science is critical. It is estimated that some of Slovenia's most established scientists, who do not copy and choose words, are even catastrophic. Only numbers on how many students have increased, how much the budget has also increased, how many have those or those indicators in science not said enough. They do not say in particular enough because, as it is said, the number of studying populations in Slovenia has increased significantly, two thirds of the young generation are studying today. At the same time, it must be said that other countries with some fundamental development considerations are significantly increasing investment in higher education and science. In fact, they invest in the production of new knowledge, new knowledge and new technologies. The last one of these successful stories in recent times is Austria, in addition to the famous Finnish and Scandinavian countries. We went to Bologna reform. Bologna reform without additional resources - this is what I am now telling you firsthand, after two years of implementing the Bologna programmes. The Bologna reform will turn universities into slightly higher or better secondary schools if investment in staff is not ensured, if there are not enough assistants, assistants, teachers who will be able to accept challenges under the Bologna programme of an increasingly individualised study. If that's not the case, we're going to kick the Bologna reform into the void and even get worse. That's why we need people, that is, money to educate and hire new people at universities, from economy to universities and so on. This law brings a certain stability to the future financing of higher education science, without a school tolar, where our primary school today would be, without the basic development programmes in the field of equipment and the military where this army would be today. And this marriage is completely in line with what we have done so far. I am sorry that this long-term budget funding has not worked out better so that such laws are no longer needed. I am convinced that the first signatory we owe him much to present this law and to prepare this law would not have submitted it if we had such budgetary funding in order to ensure this within different mechanisms. It's not. And why do we need this law, and why do we need all this? Because we are more on the tail of all European countries because the country gives only 80 euros per capita for science. Because among the 9,500 young candidates for the post of doctoral research programmes at the level of the European Union, 300 candidates were selected among these 9,500 and no one is from Slovenia, but one Slovenian who does not work in Slovenia. Not because they're not smart, but because they don't have equipment because they're not competitive. If we want to do this differently, then it would be right to reach consensus around this, to give science and education out of political struggles and to agree on how much this sphere actually needs in the coming years, and to say, to establish autonomy and responsibility for both sectors and to let science know best what to do with this money and how to use it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Of course, we will vote in favour of this law in the Slovenian National Party's Group, which is against the Committee's decision. We are all signatories to this law, and we absolutely agree with it. The fact is that the number of students who have grown very much in Slovenia in the last few years does not bring true quality. For quality studies we need more, especially more money, more investment in studies and certainly a little different direction. In Slovenia we have a huge number of humanities, which are actually difficult to bring to the development of modern technologies and modern scientific fields. The fact is, we're kind of limping here, we're in the back, and we're getting more and more behind. The Bologna reform has not brought us positive results, has brought us much bad, has brought us even a bunch of higher education laws that are their own purpose or, rather, the intention of some professors teaching at these schools to serve, serve very well, and the educational structure of the staff coming from these colleges is damn low. This is also evident in the area of increasing the number of students in humanities studies and in natural sciences. Natural science studies are more difficult and do not bring such quick profits as some segments of other studies. The purpose of the law that we have tabled is, above all, to get new people. And the goal is to get at least 80 researchers a year for the economy in the exchange of knowledge in the triangle. This is a goal that we can achieve by means of this law, and we will by no means achieve it if we remain at that starting point, as the Minister mentioned at the outset. I think it's also necessary to tighten things up. Maybe I won't just talk about this law. Maybe I'll talk about the reflections that arise with regard to higher education in general. Higher education is a very wasteful facility, we can say. After all, we are the only one in the world, where a professor who is once crippled remains in this position until death, and also an assistant, followed by a five-year delay, cannot live. Professors are 80 years old, barely speaking, assistants are 75 years old, and they barely talk, but neither one nor the other let anyone in. The task on the basis of which they received their habilitation is 50 years old, and in the meantime a number of new things have happened in science. But in all this time, the professor didn't have to fix anything, no new job to do or anything like that. Nor do they allow some visiting professors to rank in our colleges and open up new resources for learning. Even if a student gets an idea to look a little beyond the narrow framework set out by the professor, the professor and the assistant will make a quick effort to erase any new direction in the field. And that's why we're where we are. At the bottom of Europe, to avoid talking if we want to compare ourselves with Indian, Filipino or Pakistani universities, we are also there quite a bit behind, unfortunately. That is why at least this law must be adopted, so to speak against the Committee's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u60	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Lipa Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President! I believe you will allow me to return to the content of the law as proposed and leave the Philippines and everyone else alone. The purpose of the law is to increase certain financial resources in certain development programmes in the field of science and higher education. As co-signers of this law, we will uphold the law in the Lip Group of Members. The first-signed proposalr seems to me to be large enough to guarantee that the law is truly necessary. There is no need to detect warm water, no need to do anything special, but if you really read the law, you will see that there is nothing wrong with it, and that there are things in it that are really necessary and are not political matters. Politically based on the title of the law, based on the content of the law, neither of us will receive any additional political points. However, the law will bring a great deal of new knowledge or opportunities to create new knowledge if it is confirmed. Allow me just a word or two, given that the law on the committee did not get the necessary consent. Only the stupid and the dead don't change their mind. I believe that today those of you who voted against it will change it and show that you are neither one nor the other. Investments in higher education are key to any economic growth. Even if we believe the words of the President of the Government that economic growth in our country is at an envious level. I believe that none of us here will defend further prosperity, but of course we are the ones who do not believe in the Prime Minister. It should be noted that, in this mandate, the State has effectively reduced the funds allocated to higher education. The biggest problem is the means of providing or introducing Bologna study programmes. If there is no additional money, higher education institutions will have to lower quality at the first Bologna level and, at the second stage, reduce funding to students, bring students together into larger groups and reduce the selection of selected subjects, that is to reduce the quality of the study, thereby reducing the quality of knowledge and thus reducing the economic growth that you are all grappling with. The arguments that there is a need to establish competition at existing universities and that private schools do not support additional funding of higher education. Your tracker or his statement that his private schools, which you have given him under his auspices, have between 10,000 and 100,000 euros, and you, although yours is a follower, show that this is not simply a way of increasing competition for private schools. Slovenia, with two million people, cannot have the same logic as it does in the United States, where the market is functioning. The market also works there in such a way that good students, good programmes are financed and allow for post-graduate employment for those best students. We don't even know that at the end of the day to guarantee our students. In Slovenia today only the best higher education and research institutions can compete with those smaller educational institutions abroad, so any such comparison is simply not sustainable. As I have already said, in the Lipa Group, we will be happy to support the law in the proposed form. However, I believe, as I said at the outset, that all those who opposed this law on the Committee for their reasons will change your opinion and support the law and thus contribute to the development of the science, technology and economic growth you enjoy. And don't take it bad if you change your mind - every day we learn something new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u62	Thank you. Mag. Tomaž Štebe will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we will agree that the proposal for a law as designed is not suitable for further consideration. With full respect for the intention of the proposer and the objectives which Europe and Slovenia are trying to achieve in this way with the Lisbon Strategy and national programmes, to become the most competitive and dynamic and knowledge-based economy in the world with full employment and economic and social cohesion. In short, jobs and growth. Or the other way around. The reason for the view that the proposal does not follow these strategies and objectives is essentially two formal concepts and one substantive, which I think are the most important opinions of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Formal concept first. For the period of validity of the Basic Development Programmes Act in the field of science and higher education from 2010 to 2014, there is no valid supervisory document, a national research and development programme and a national higher education programme in force until 2010. This is also the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Another formal conceptual reason is that the proposed sub-programmes, for which at least €65 million should be allocated from 2010 for a period of five years, are areas for which funds are to be made available in the budget following the current commitments of the State. Financing Bologna programmes, enough teachers according to the number of students or better conditions, public-private partnership [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] students must be supported by existing budgetary and other financial elements. [[...]] In addition, programmes and sub-programmes are also budgeted under the four-year development plans. The framework for these programmes is already mentioned in national programmes or strategies that follow the European specificities and options of the Member States. The essence is in the decision-making on guidelines, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] research and development segments that have the greatest potential for success and in these areas and supporting parts of excellence, which also allow for final success in the market in a global sense. [[...]] More importantly, how we understand basic development programmes. In fact, the point is to look for areas for specific funding. The key is also the high participation of the economy. Not 15% of the public works, but, above all, a significant at least half-high economic participation. I believe that it is at least half because their participation ensures a reasonable and serious partnership with responsibility for the reality and effectiveness of programmes or projects. In order to develop the competitiveness and effectiveness of our society, it is important that we devote important resources to individual programmes that lead to excellence leading to the realisation and successful management of areas or certain technological content that we think Slovenia can be competitive and successful in these areas, so that we can create long-term safe and demanding jobs. Germany has earmarked billions of euros for several universities, which it is trying to train for comparable success with some other universities around the world. Of course, from public funds that generate significant shares for their work from private resources, from the economy. Similarly, the Finnish state is currently spending half a billion euros to integrate private partnership into existing public universities, with the participation of at least equal funds from the private sphere. We believe that it is very important to guide and define through the development agenda plans, through selected content, some of the technological projects that we expect the economy to need and implement in the final stage on the market. It is also very important that we step up education, take it up with real obstudio development and application projects and create effective study programmes and diplomats. [[...]] The Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation will support the decision of the Home Committee to propose that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u64	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u65	Good afternoon, Mr President, Madam Minister with co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats cannot and does not wish to support the conclusion of the parent labour body on the proposal for a law on basic development programmes in the field of science and higher education. The Government's comments and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service on the formal reasons why this law is not necessary or not in place, I think it is not so important that they could weigh the content of this law, which allocates additional resources, otherwise, in our view, in the Group of Members, who are also co-signers of the bill, too low, and we therefore hope that the Committee will take the law seriously and find it necessary to supplement and correct it. We intended to table amendments aimed at significantly increasing the resources for the programmes proposed by the law, as the sum of €65 million of additional resources, namely, the basic sums set out by the National Research and Development Programme and the National Higher Education Programme, are too small. The fact is that we need additional resources primarily to accelerate research and development and to accelerate the development of higher education. It is said that what we hear from the Minister's mouth, that we are constrained by the growth of gross domestic product in the area of development of higher education, research and development, is a problem of how to think about the role of these two, we can say, Slovenia's most important activities. If Slovenia wants to become a beacon of the world and if Slovenia wants to be the world's largest, and never be the strongest, it can be the best, but not the other, it cannot become if it does not invest accelerated funds in research and development and in higher education. It is said that the share of the gross domestic product intended for this activity should be increased each year, but not limited to the growth of gross domestic product, which passed by this year’s described package, in fact last year and before last year due mainly to the overheated development of the economy, which also brought, we know, increased inflation. With such inflation, the same growth of resources for higher education and research and development, such as gross domestic product growth, is not enough to follow the growth of the number of students in order to pursue the desire or goal to increase the number of professors or reach the number of lecturers per student, the goal that we have set ourselves also in the national higher education programme and the whole range of other goals that we have set ourselves. We therefore believe that this law is still necessary, with corrections which would at least double the amounts envisaged in order to accelerate the development of both activities. The Group of Social Democrats will vote in full against the Committee's decision. We are confident, as the colleague said before, that there is nothing wrong with changing our position if we change our mind. In other words, I believe that there are a great many people, members and members of the coalition who have children who need the help of the country or the accelerated development in order to achieve the goals set by the country as a whole in the postgraduate study. I would like us to vote against the decision together. Hala.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u66	Thank you. Dr Mitja Slavinec will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u67	Nice greetings to all present! We have heard that Slovenia has been the only transition country with a school tolar since 1994. The father of the School Tolar, a fellow Member of the Moja, has repeatedly warned the Government that this year this additional source of funding for higher education will expire and that the government itself should prepare an appropriate law so that the opposition does not have to continue its work from four mandates and all in between. And what did we get in answer? In response, we received a similar law - but in the area of defence, not in the field of higher education, science and research. And to make things even worse, in the area of defence, it was not difficult with a similar law, which is now marked by procedural errors or inability to adopt, i.e., similar law has provided as many as 11 times more resources, 11 times more resources for the military than here for knowledge, for education, for higher education and for research activities, that is, for what provides for faster development for Slovenia, for what is undoubtedly the best investment. And that we had a school tolar, of course, which also caused it to be far from the truth that we are at the bottom of Europe or any other country. On the contrary, we are in a very envious place, much more so if we look at our other options. In fact, it is not worth arguing with my colleague Jelinčič about his assessment of higher education. Perhaps in some areas, but certainly not in nature, so certainly not in the area which would be the most important of this law, and therefore in the area that Slovenia needs most. Just have a little chat with the economists and you'll hear how they're looking for engineers, how there's no natural and technical personnel, how there's no one who's supposed to have this law. Not only them, it is also intended to provide sufficient resources, but also the legal position of higher education and competitiveness in the further development of our higher education area. The government, in rejecting this law, says that the means are sufficient. Unfortunately, however, the practice shows quite different. You were able to familiarize yourself on the board with the invitation of the Deans of Technical Colleges. A number of questions have also been raised to the Minister, initiatives related to the financing of science and technology colleges, as well as specific Faculty of Science and Mathematics, which also shows some inconsistencies in the financing of equivalent universities in Ljubljana and Maribor. We've heard that new colleges have emerged, but new colleges, private colleges are usually all socio-humanistic. And so again, because most of this money goes from the same bag, from the same bag it's now much more focused on sociology and humanism, so science and technology colleges are so much less disadvantaged. Privates will not set up science and technology colleges because it is a small enrollment and because the study is very expensive. And this law, which we are talking about today, could largely eliminate this anomaly in the area of reducing study groups and also co-financing VAT on equipment obtained from European budgets. And this research equipment would not only be for study and would not only be for investigative work, but could, to a large extent, also serve directly the needs of the economy. There is another reason why this law should be supported. Also, having a law before the national programme is not a weakness, on the contrary, it is an advantage that the national programme will be able to take account of the content of this law. And let me conclude by saying that the committee, we can call it an ad hoc committee, because it deals with what provides for development, decided closely by one vote, and certainly this is a decision that makes sense now in the National Assembly to correct and to uphold the law that what the President of the Academy of Science and Art has said will not be true when asked what the state supports, nature or society more, and said declaratively: society is really nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr Martin Mikolič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the minister, coworkers, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the last two decades, the number of students has risen rapidly. In Slovenia, about 60% of the population between 18 and 24 years of age study. Such a high percentage is a large proportion compared to the rest of the European Union. The share of the budget received by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology increased from 5.34% in the 2006 budget to 5.63% in the 2008 financial year. The budget of the Ministry thus increased by 7% in 2007 compared to 2006 and by just over 7% in the following financial year, totalling slightly less than 15%. Budget resources for higher education are actually increasing at least for gross domestic product growth each year, but not less than 2.5% for the previous year. In doing so, we must not forget to draw funds from the European Structural Funds for cohesion policy. The number of calls made by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology is increasing. The draft law tabled by the Group of Members with the first-signed Member, Mr Mohet, does not, in the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, bring new solutions. We agree with the purpose pursued by the law, but the path by which the applicant seeks to obtain funds does not appear to be the law. In the first place, there is no legal basis for the law, since both the national development programme and the resolution on the national higher education programme were adopted only until 2010. For these reasons, in the New Slovenia Group, we consider that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u70	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 20th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION OF SUPPLEMENTS FOR THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA. The bill was tabled by a member of the Parliament, Dr. Pavel Gantar. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Drag Koren, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Good greetings to the Members of Parliament, Members and representatives of the Government! At its 45th session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the protection of personal data submitted by Member Pavel Gantar to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. At the beginning of this point, Mr Gantar stressed that the reason for drafting this proposal is related to the internal control events introduced by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in connection with the publication of the diplomatic dispatch. The protection of personal data in electronic communications is ensured in public electronic networks, while certain segments of electronic communications that do not belong to the public network, including the home centres, do not enjoy specific legal protection. The main solution to the bill is that traffic data on individual electronic communications are also identified as sensitive personal data. At the same time, the proposal of the law to the operators of public and private communications networks requires that the data be anonymised in the processing of traffic data for the purpose of verifying the consumption and accounts of communications services by the user in such a way that the identity of the person with whom the user has established the connection is not visible, nor is the identity of the person who has established the connection with the user. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained her written opinion. She said that the issue concerned the legal system appropriateness of regulating the content of this proposal in the amendment to the Personal Data Protection Act. She thought it would be a different marriage. The draft law was also given a written opinion by the Government, which was presented at the Committee by State Secretary Robert Marolt. He said that the proposed legislative provisions by content did not fall within the Personal Data Protection Act, but it would be more appropriate to regulate this issue in the Law on Electronic Communications. In the debate, the members of the Committee presented different views on the proposed solutions. Some supported the proposaler's efforts and felt that the Government should also have an interest in resolving this issue. The protection of privacy in the workplace in the field of electronic communications is very important as data on the communication of an individual may conclude on certain other personal data which the law defines as sensitive. It is therefore right to regulate this area properly, since employers can interpret their powers in relation to the protection of privacy in the workplace very differently. The view was also expressed that each employee must be aware of the use of the service phone and the computer for the employer’s funds given to him for official purposes. The majority of the members of the committee felt that there was no need to introduce the proposed legal solutions, so they did not adopt the proposal. The panellist also replied, to the concerns of the Government and the Legal and Legal Service regarding the legal and systemic placement of the proposed content and to the warning that it would indicate that it would be one place to regulate all those constitutional rights of documentation privacy, including written secrecy. If the regulation on public electronic communications also included arrangements relating to private networks, the legislation would be impractical. The Committee voted on the amendment of the Committee to Article 2 submitted by the proposer. The amendment was not adopted and then voted on all articles of the bill together, which was also not adopted. Finally, the Committee decided that the proposal for a law supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u72	Thank you. I give the floor to the proposaler of the law, Dr Paul Gantar, to present his position on the proposal of the mother's working body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u73	Honorable President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I'll be brief. It is clear that I will not support the proposal. The chairman of the committee has fully explained all the stories about this law, so I will not repeat them. It is true that the reason for this law's proposal is unauthorised control of traffic data at the MNZ Home Office. In doing so, it should be stressed that the confidentiality of so-called transport data in public electronic networks is protected by the Law on Electronic Communications. The Law on Electronic Communications, which deals with public operators and public networks, does not deal with this when it comes to such data in private networks, where house centres can also be considered, after all, HACOM, on which our network also operates, including a private network, is in a private legal sense when it does not communicate with the public network. Therefore, this material cannot be regulated in this Law on Electronic Communications and I have therefore proposed the addition of two articles in the Personal Data Protection Act. As has been said, in Article 6, I have proposed that transport data on individual electronic communications be included in sensitive data and that transport data be processed and processed for the purposes of accounting, control and so on. However, they need to be anonymized to the extent that there is no visible identity of the person calling the user and of the person calling him, simply stated identity in outgoing and incoming calls. The debate was interesting and is a whole series of other problems. I would just say that this is one of the central debates in Europe today regarding the control of personality and communication means, that the Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Germany is a computer, whether public or private, private, as part of the constitutionally protected privacy of an individual, that the employer cannot, therefore, interfere with these communication systems and that we are aware of the sensitivity of this topic. With us, this problem is not relevant, or none of us think it is. The attempt that has been made has been an attempt, let's say, to the lovingly partial solutions to a problem, an immediate solution, but it also shows that this solution will not be successful, and I must say that we will be dealing with this in the next such affair, whether will or will not. Goodbye. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u74	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Robert Marolt, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u75	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined in detail the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the protection of personal data proposed by the Member of the National Assembly, Mr Pavel Gantar. We have assessed that we cannot agree with the content of the provisions of this law's proposal. The draft law is substantively controversial because the proposed provisions by content do not fall within the Personal Data Protection Act governing the right to information privacy of the 38th Members of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. They would have previously been subject to the Law on Electronic Communications, as they deal with the issue of the right to communication privacy referred to in Article 37 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We also assess that the legal system is also at issue with the proposal of Article 1 of the Law to define the transport data on individual electronic communications as sensitive personal data, as these transport data are not and cannot be of the same rank or as dangerous as data on race and nationality, religious or political belief, union membership, health status, sex life and so on. The determination in Article 2 of the law that copies of communication, transport data are always automatically anonymised is also flawed or incomplete in our view. At times, for the sake of the protection of his personal interests, an individual has the right or interest to be provided with a complete record of the calls. And Article 2 of the bill in our opinion also makes it illogical to allow the anonymised transport data of electronic communications to continue to be cryptographically processed, as if anonymisation had occurred, their cryptographic processing would no longer be necessary. While the bill raises an important issue of more detailed legal regulation of the protection of privacy in the workplace, it cannot be resolved by proposing not sufficiently developed legal solutions. It may also be necessary to draw from the view that general rules on the protection of privacy in the workplace must first be systematically laid down, which is longer and, as has already been said, primarily a systemic task. Therefore, the Government does not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u76	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, it is only two less demanding supplements, but because they are less demanding, they are not insignificant. We are assessing the contrary because it is a violation of fundamental rights. It is worth noting, however, what was the reason for this bill, that it must therefore be reiterated that this was the case at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that a decision was issued by the information officer, which is not legally binding because of the administrative dispute, but that it assessed that the event was illegal. We'll wait for the power of attorney to determine who was righter. For us in the Dessus Group, it's important where this happened. So it's in the tops of our state administration. The important way this happened is because we believe that this was arrogant. It is also important who were the main actors and how and who later justified this event in public. We believe that this justification was wrong and that it was actually purely apologetic. All these characteristics indicate that the proposal for this law is indeed necessary. That it would be necessary to accept this in order not to be repeated over and over again. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we fully support the intention of this proposal for supplementation by ensuring greater security of personal data, the protection of employees in the workplace, and by preventing the dominant ownership interest of those who own resources to work on human rights. The contents of these two were complemented by a speech today, and there is no point in repeating them again. However, it should be noted that the warnings were also addressed by the Legal and Legislative Service. The Law and Law Service also ruled that perhaps they were not the best located these supplements, as far as the law was concerned. However, she said that if she persisted, it should be complemented. Law enforcement didn't say it was quite a mistake and we couldn't accept it. She just thought it wasn't the best thing to do, that it wasn't a great solution. The government spoke a little differently about this. When she summed up what Law-Legal Service said, she, today we've heard that, the government said, well, it wasn't so bad. It is a small sin, and he forgives such. I'm paraphrasing, of course. She noted that the law does not explicitly allow anyone to make an individual decision to disclose the information he is talking about. At the same time, it considered that the proposal was also inadequate because it did not propose simultaneous changes in the field of labour law. In this argument, we in the DeSUS Group recognize a greater ambition not to adopt the law as proposed as an ambition to prevent the illegalities that have taken place. That is why we fully support the proposed novel after the content. With regard to concerns about what the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has said, I leave it to each individual in the parliamentary group to decide for himself. I will personally oppose the proposal for a decision adopted by my mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by the Member of the winner, Mr Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. We will support this bill. We consider that an employer without a court order cannot just search left, right, control, search, because here we can give a comparison of each other's strong protection, which is in use in Slovenia. We in the Republic of Slovenia are very protective of the nationality of criminals. They are all Slovenian citizens, but it doesn't matter whether the Shiptars are or are Gypsies or not, but they are all Slovenians who commit crime and don't let God do any analysis of the national structure. These analyses work in Germany, they work in England, they work in America, only in Slovenia, not because we have some comrades here who have prepared the country in previous mandates to make it illegal for all of us to be equal. They forget that if nothing else, we are at least gender-different, although some are not exactly presented. I mean, if we're going to one side in such strict restraint, then let's take this law and confirm it, or on the other hand, open up the possibility of introducing some more, I'd say, necessary and good analysis in some sort of case. That I won't be too long, because I just don't like to talk to you anymore today, we're gonna back this up and keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u80	The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Mr Boztjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The criminal is a criminal, regardless of gender, tendency, number, nationality. I believe that some, even if the Slovenians, felt this criminality on their skin or had good friends who, regardless of gender, inclination and number, today have fallen into the hands of justice and some have managed to avoid it. In the Lipa Group, we will be happy to support the bill. Above all, it is important, as my colleague Rezman said, that I apologize for mentioning you in the presentation of the position, the reason why such a law came into the parliamentary procedure at all. And at this point, you could say, in the slogans, "thank God this reason has happened," because probably the government would never have prepared it. Me and the Lipa Group may also take this law as a guide, because I believe that a sufficient majority today will not receive, as a guide to the Government, what else can be done in this area or what should be done so as not to repeat the matter that has taken place at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with some employees. This is, as I have heard in the explanation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for a per partes solution, but a couple of parts of the solution of a particular area seems to me to be kind of the practice of this government. Remember only the ZGD, how many times we saved him in the per partes, and what kind of law would be found that we were changing, that we were almost out of letters, how many changes were made. I believe in the proponent's well-intentionedness, the real change to the Personal Data Protection Act when it comes to violating these rights in the workplace. It seems to me that no employer should have exactly what he wants or because it is possible that something "shut up" itself, this possibility or competence to blacken someone, look at his calls either from private communications networks or from any other. I agree, or we agree in the Lip Group that the law could be more comprehensive in order to include non-electronic communications. In this direction, we certainly agree, but it seems to me that the law is a very good basis for the possibility that the three others proposed by the government will be able to resolve this issue in an integrated manner and prevent such acts as they occur at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so we will support this law in the Lipa Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. Otherwise, we believe that the ideas and purposes of the law are, in principle, acceptable in terms of protection of privacy in the field of electronic communications in the workplace. In our Group of Members, we also understand the reason for the proposed amendment, which was introduced by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a result of internal controls. Under this control, the perpetrator was sought for information leaking from that Ministry, which can be claimed to have caused some damage to Slovenia. In our view, the amendments to this law to the damage that has taken place in this case will not be remedied, so we also believe that they will not prevent any new similar cases that have occurred at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This substantial proposed amendment to amend the Personal Data Protection Act in such a way that transport data on the electronic communication of an individual is explicitly identified or defined as sensitive personal data. We are aware that this area is very sensitive, that it is being dealt with by many in Europe and elsewhere. However, our proposed regulation is controversial or problematic in several respects. For one thing, we do not consider such arrangements to be part of the Personal Data Protection Act. It is also questionable to comply with European Directive 95/46, on the protection of individuals, on the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. In addition, we believe that the proposed solution is incomplete in terms of practical application. That is why we will join our Group in the decision of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice and support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group of Ambassadors will be presented by Ambassador Dar Lavtijar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the objectives and principles of the proposed law. The assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, as stated by the motioner Dr. Pavel Gantar, are more than convincing to us and we cannot simply ignore or forget, in our opinion, the unacceptable conduct of those responsible at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where internal supervision has been introduced after the publication of the so-called "Washington dispatches", in a manner and to the extent that tends us to assess that human rights and fundamental freedoms have been violated. We are also convinced of the assessments and reasons of the information officer who officially introduced the inspection procedure in this particular case and identified the conduct of the responsible persons at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the illegal. However, it is up to us to ask ourselves, from the legislator's point of view, how appropriate legislation should be supplemented so that, to a greater extent, possible future human rights violations of this kind can be prevented, and how to ensure that the legal standards, which constitute a restriction or temporary repeal or regulation of the way human rights and fundamental freedoms are exercised, are specific and clear and thus allow for no arbitrariness in their exercise and respect. Especially not arbitration on the part of those authorities, executive bodies or political officials who should be particularly committed to respect for legality. It is not entirely convincing for us to have the Government's opinion on the bill under consideration, which, on the one hand, recognises that its ideas are, in principle, acceptable in terms of the protection of privacy in the field of electronic communications in the workplace and in accordance with the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and also in the good practice of certain other European countries, on the other hand, it is clear that the proposed legal provisions are in the wrong draft law and are incomplete in terms of their application in practice. Well, this latter, on imperfection in terms of the application of individual laws in practice, could be much discussed here today. This view of the Government tells us all about how current the government is in fact about the fact that the area of personal data protection is regulated more comprehensively and more specifically and to prevent all abuses, which, in view of the practice and interpretation of officials at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in the Government, we can still expect until this government remains in power. However, whenever this government wanted to bring its law through the legislative procedure at all costs, even though the opinion of the Legal Service and the profession had marked a number of shortcomings and even a dispute in terms of constitutionality or compliance with the Constitution, the Government had been able to make appropriate amendments through coalition groups, which had addressed at least the nominal weaknesses of the proposed law. In this particular case, it is not a matter for the Government to put in law appropriate safeguards to prevent the abuse of privacy in the field of electronic communications or privacy in the workplace. And it is quite significant that the Government refers even to the fact that such changes should be adopted in connection with the amendment of the Labour Relations Act as if it were not a matter of respect for and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u86	Thank you very much. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u87	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, president, bill-maker, welcome! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the protection of personal data. They supported whatever this story was, in fact, the cause of creation. After all, we have some such stories in world literature about King Solomon and King Trajan, who has goat ears, but things have always been done in one way or another. So it's a big question whether it was at the time that the Minister for Foreign Affairs really wanted to be discovered, whether he was just wondering who was communicating with whom, who he had connections to, who he was talking to, why he was talking to. Of course, it would also be good to know what is being said. Fortunately, that is not possible from this data, but it is enough that then anyone, especially those phone owners, can create some networks and thus come to very private and personal information about the people working with them. Of course, this enthusiasm for property is shown only when it is better to control people more, is it to limit freedom even more, to keep them in fear and uncertainty? Joy is not when there are other consequences. Last time, one of my colleagues told me that it's normal for the owner to have the right to know everything that's going on, because he's also responsible for everything. But the logic is the other way around. Then let him also pay for all traffic offences for the vehicles of which he owns. It's the same thing. It is the use, use and, of course, the responsibility of use and use and of something else, on the other hand, the responsibility of ownership. The fact that the government or the Ministry of Justice at this time, when it assesses and interprets it, always knows about better solutions is already a well-known story, let it do it for the devil's sake. But it is in this ministry that we come to the letter G, E, F in amending the law in this mandate, so I very much doubt the credibility of this work and, above all, these promises that they are better solutions and that this should be regulated. Let it settle down as it is proposed to protect freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by colleague Drago Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u89	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Once again, a good day to the Members of Parliament, to the representatives of the Government! I must first say that in the New Slovenia Group we will not support the proposed amendments to the Personal Data Protection Act. This does not mean that in New Slovenia we do not agree that it is very important to protect personal data, and that it is right that personal data are truly protected from being misused, but above all that they are not abused for any negative purpose. And here, I think we're going to make a quick difference, already on this assessment, and what personal data are. Here we would quickly find ourselves on two different shores, that for one personal data there is one thing, for the other it is a trifle which seems to him a perfectly normal and public thing. In particular, in this case, and in particular in the reasons for the proposed law, which has been cited, what happened at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs seems to us to be a particularly important distinction between public and private. That's exactly what I think the main thing is here. In New Slovenia we know that it is necessary to strictly separate what is public and what is private. That it is a private home, an apartment, including a bedroom, and that it is a private home phone, home phone, computer, e-mail, cell phone, etc. A little less or a little more difficult to talk about public and private when we talk about jobs. However, so that everyone can be referred to as each job as I mentioned earlier as a home for a home, we certainly cannot speak. This is about intertwining public and private. In Novi Slovenija we believe that there is more public than private in the workplace, but we believe that it should be perfectly clear that the matter should be clarified and cleared at the time of employment. Anyone who is employed in a specific job should be fully aware of what else can be private and what is public. Because the office phone, the official computer, I'll also say the service desk, the space, it can't be a private space or it can't be a completely private space. If we look at just a few cases where it's already perfectly clear, even when we're in contact, let's say these are the courts. By the time you dial the court phone number, the first thing you hear is that the conversation is recorded. I don't see anything wrong here, but I've been warned, according to my household, that I wouldn't ferment any nonsense or say anything that might ever hurt me. However, after the events at the ICZ, we ask ourselves if the law is being violated if criminal acts are being committed, there is no need for these matters to be defended at the expense of protecting privacy. In this case, I think it would be very necessary to ask why the secret document came. It's not a small offense, it's a big offense. And I will say, a review of phone numbers and phone numbers at work, in the workplace, in the opinion of New Slovenia and a violation of privacy. In the Group of Members, we believe that this matter should actually be settled, particularly what I have said, it is clear in advance what is public and what may remain private. This bill, as I said, will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u91	Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Good-bye! While it is important to protect privacy in the field of electronic communications in the workplace, data on the communication of an individual may conclude on certain personal data which the law defines as sensitive. However, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed supplement should be subject to the regulation of the Law on Electronic Communications, since it is the protection of the constitutional right to communication privacy, while the Law on the Protection of Personal Data does not directly regulate the protection of communications privacy. In addition, we find it constitutionally and legally controversial that only traffic data in individual electronic communications are defined as sensitive data, but not other information on communication privacy within the meaning of Article 37 of the Constitution. While the ideas contained in the bill are generally acceptable in terms of protection of privacy in the field of electronic communications in the workplace, they also follow general guidance from comparable European practices. In addition to being in the wrong draft law, they are also incomplete in terms of their application in practice. While the Republic of Slovenia, as an EU Member State, may freely define additional data as sensitive data, this data should be comparable to other personal data identified as sensitive by its intensity. It is also not specified for certain national activities in order to obtain "unanimated" communication transport data. We know that in some national activities, official electronic communications must be specifically protected and therefore we believe that the proposed rule on absolute automatic "animation" of communications transport data would be exaggerated. We will not support the Slovenian People's Party's Group because of all the above-mentioned proposal. All I would say is that we are missing the opinion of the information officer on the content of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u92	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with your presentation by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, we will decide on the draft law today in the framework of the vote, which will be held in half an hour, at 1300 hours. With this, I interrupt this point, and I also interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue, as we say, at 1300 hours. Until then, say good-bye. And nice greetings, unfortunately you're too late, visitors on the balcony.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u93	Dear Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. In accordance with established practice, I ask that Members and Members present check the functioning of their voting facilities. There's no complaint. Which means we can move on to decisions. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on changes and additions to the law on environmental protection, we continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 21. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 34. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended with the vote on the amendment and with this second reading of the bill. Therefore, we can move on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We can move on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 3. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft toll law on vehicles whose maximum weight permits exceed 3,500 kg. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we can proceed to the third reading of the bill. The draft law, however, was not harmonised due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, so the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 6, which you also received on the bench. However, I give the floor to the Minister present about the harmonisation amendment. Minister, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! An amendment to Article 4 of the draft law was adopted on the Transport Committee, where the second consideration of the draft law was carried out, which deleted the word 'in parallel'. In order to align the text of the second paragraph of Article 6 with Article 4 of the draft law, it is also necessary to delete the word "comparative" in the second paragraph of Article 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u95	Minister, thank you very much. Anyone want to discuss the harmonisation amendment? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate envisaged and we can move on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This allows us to move on to a decision on a proposal for a law. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Anyone else besides Comrade Webber? No, no, no. Comrade Webber, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Parliamentary Group Proposal for a Toll Code for vehicles whose maximum permissible weight exceeds 3,500 kg will not be supported for the reason that, in our view, the law is even incomplete in its content and should not be in the procedure of the National Assembly at all. This is particularly true of the part that speaks of the financial consequences of this law. The simple explanation that this law will have no financial implications for the state budget does not, of course, hold a critical judgment unless the Ministry of Transport within its composition has a special authority to take care of the implementation of the toll system, but, of course, a whole series of guarantee laws have been adopted in the National Assembly to guarantee the state in order to take on budgetary responsibility for the payment of credits unless sufficient funds are collected with the toll. What kind of toll system we introduce with this law knows only the proposer, but I think not all of them are still in this circle. Indeed, there is not yet a satellite toll system in Europe. Germany has one part covered for freight vehicles, and it has not yet been developed until this stage so that we can talk about taking over in Slovenia. As the first European country, we will have an entirely satellite-controlled system. For a long time, a lot of water will have to flow before we have it in Slovenia, and a lot of trucks will continue on our roads before we establish this system. However, the key question is how much a private person who will build a satellite system in Slovenia will have to invest these funds in construction under this law and how much of the toll will be spent on paying for this investment. It is likely that a charity in this area is not to be expected so that these obligations will probably be very concrete and I think that in Slovenia we will have one of the most expensive and most complicated toll systems that will certainly lead to the future or cause very great problems in the future in the repayment of credits and the development of both roads, fast and highways, as well as other state roads that we know to be particularly critical. In short, this law cannot be supported by such a modest explanation and with such significant consequences for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 12. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. However, we continue with the end of agenda 11 - second reading of the draft law on basic development programmes in the field of science and higher education in 2010-2014. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on fundamental development of programmes in the field of science and higher education in 2010-2014 is not suitable for further consideration. On behalf of the parliamentary groups, is there anyone else besides Comrade Mojet? No, no, no. Comrade Moja, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u98	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The old Latins said "Necesse et utile est for Patricia Mori" means it is necessary and it is useful to die for the country. And it is wise that the National Assembly, which is responsible for this country, can be so wise as to ensure security in this country through special legislation so-called basic development programmes, this security has ensured that it has passed a law worth €710 million. On the other hand, we know that all the parties in this House swear that we are a knowledge-based society. In every debate, no one objected to this and it seems to me that it would be wise, as it was the concern of all the previous parliaments in which I had the honour to participate, that I was personally proud to be a Member of the National Assembly, that we gave special care and role to education and science. For the first time, it has brought us development and has put us in an equal match with the nations surrounding us. I think that this is also the national importance of the first category and I would like to vote against the decision when we vote, too, because I would not like to be a member of the generation of Members who will write it down at the end of the term, that this was the only representative of the National Assembly who was unable to adopt the law on additional investment in education and science. Therefore, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we call on you again, do something good for this country and leave to the law at least a second treatment on the parental committee to correct it, what does anyone think is wrong, and when we say goodbye and give ourselves our last hand in this National Assembly, we say: "We were also the generation that we thought was useful for this nation to invest in higher education". I would like to point out once again that higher education, it is necessary to say that colleague Milan Zver, Minister, has taken good care of primary schools, has done a good job in secondary schools, shows the success of the international comparison that this segment belongs to the top of the European Union, that in some areas we are better than in Germany, better than Austria, but unfortunately in the area of higher education it has not been done to achieve the main objective, it is said that we would restore the programme and that this education would be internationalised. So now we have problems, just today I got a signal from society that not one of our development projects was adopted, a research task, precisely because they didn't have enough research equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Given that I still see a desire to explain my voice, I am opening a procedure to explain on my own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u100	Respectable, esteemed! I will support the law, so I will vote against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. However, it is a principled decision or we will invest only in weapons or invest only in infrastructure or we will invest in what is important for the further development of Slovenia. For what we continue to go beyond, to the society of knowledge, to permanent education, to the developed system of universities, etc. In doing so, let me say that such flossules will then remain completely empty if there is really no means and no money for it. And after all, plagiarisms won't be able to write unless there's anyone writing originals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? No, no, no. My fellow schoolboy, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would also like to object to this conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. However, this honourable assembly would draw attention to a two-faced policy of the coalition. Here it opposes, and at the same time, the Ministry of Science, at this time, later, as usual, has given an invitation to promote science for the current year and I warn you, also for the following year. The Minister of Science, who will certainly not be a minister in the future government, is not ready to support and the Government is not prepared to support any longer-term science projects, but is prepared to spend money on its successor. This is a rather perverted act against which I am also protesting from this city, and I expect that the call for money for next year will be cancelled if they do not want to think about the situation of science for years to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 26. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted, which means that the legislative procedure on the proposal has been completed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. However, we continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Personal Data Protection Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act is not suitable for further consideration. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 35 votes in favour, 23 votes in favour. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the decision has been adopted, which means that the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the adjourned 39th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Exchange in Culture, Education and Sport between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Colombia. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labour body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. And since the mother's working body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 40. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE, on confirmation, for the first time, of the officially purified text of the Foreigners Act and for the second time, of the official consolidated text of the Personal Card Act. Officially consolidated texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the National Assembly without discussion. Firstly, we are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: A formal consolidated text of the Aliens Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 50 votes against one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. And a second time. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The text of the Act on the ID card shall be officially revised. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, for 51, for 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the purified text of that proposal is confirmed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. And we're moving on to 41. It's a day's work, man-loving stuff. Under this item, the Assembly will consider: Firstly, the three proposals of the Judicial Council for election to a judicial function, with proposals for conclusions. Another time. Proposal by the Council of Justice for the appointment of the Supreme Court of Justice in the Supreme Court, with a proposal for a decision. Third time. Decision to terminate the functions. Fourth time. Proposal for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Fifth. Proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. As we say, we will first consider the three proposals of the Council of Justice for election to the judiciary. The Council of Justice submitted three proposals for the election of candidates for judicial office to the courts of the District Courts at the Regional Court of Maribor, Slovenj Gradc and Slovenski Konjica. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body, which also reported in writing to the National Assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. There are no applications for debate, so we can move on to decision-making. I hereby put to the vote the motion for rulings on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Betka Kinderman at the district court in the District Court of Maribor. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, for 51, against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Another time. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Petra Vspenger to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, for 48, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. And the third time. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Sanja Tomažič to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in the Slovenian Konjice. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present for 52, against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal of the Judicial Council for the appointment of the Supreme Court of Justice in the Supreme Court with a proposal for a decision. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Mrs Brigitte Domjan Pavlin as Judge of the Supreme Court. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a parent working body, which also reported in writing to the National Assembly and submitted a proposal for conclusions. Since there are no applicants, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision appointing Mrs Brigitte Domjan Pavlin to the seat of the Supreme Court of Justice. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 52 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the termination of the functions, i.e. the MEP. As of 12 June this year, Janez Drobnič was no longer a member of the New Slovenia Group. The National Assembly shall therefore be informed of the following decision on the basis of Articles 112, 200 and 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Make sure he's a magician. Janez Drobnič has ceased to serve as a member of the New Slovenia Group of Members and has been suspended as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, as a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, and as Deputy Vice-President of the Commission under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. The proposal was submitted to the Parliament by the New Slovenia Group for consideration. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 2. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission. The proposal was submitted to the Parliament by the New Slovenia Group and I am giving the floor to only one of the submitted groups in the context of the presentation of the positions of the members of the group, i.e. to my colleague Jožef Školč. Here you go, mate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u104	Thank you very much. With this "roastice" in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we find the following. Mr Janez Drobnič, a party colleague, is dismissed, for whom it is necessary to say 'Urbi et Orbi', that he remained in the party on which he went to the National Assembly, but went only from the parliamentary group in which he has worked so far, that he has also experienced a few similar moments in this National Assembly when he said good-bye to the minister. We think, given his conduct and how he acted in the National Assembly, that he had his own beliefs and views, which, in many cases or in most cases, they did not agree with, but we can only say that he was a broken man and was not a party pervert. That's why we're going to be in the Liberal Democracy, because this appointment seems almost irrelevant to us now that the intelligence report has already been adopted, when there's probably no more meeting when this committee is actually going to be working until 15. 7. It is said to be a bad half-month that such a designation does not have any meaning, except for some symbolic meaning, which is why we will only press on the quorum in this vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u105	Thank you very much. There are no others previously reported for discussion. Comrade Pavel Gantar, I will give you my word in explanation of vote, because otherwise it has not been reported. Well, as a matter of fact. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of Article 10 of the Law on Parliamentary Control of Intelligence and Security Services, if the majority of Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. Before we go to the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups, Comrade Paula Gantar. Anyone else? No, no, no. Comrade Gantar, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Of course, this automation, which happens after someone resigns from the Group of Members, is of course self-evident, so I was not able to express my regret earlier at the decision to terminate the function and, however, I expected that once again, fellow Member Janez Drobnic would be appointed as a member of the Security Intelligence Supervisory Commission. On behalf of the Group of Members, which I represent, as President of the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services, I regret not to run for office, and indeed three months before the elections, even after the report has been adopted, as was said and I note that the fellow Member has only left the Group of Members, has not changed the party, nor has he switched from position to opposition. There is no serious reason why an experienced member who has worked for a long time on this committee is actually being replaced, except for completely incomprehensible reasons. As I know that this fact will not affect the vote in this Chamber in any way, I would really use this opportunity very briefly to thank my colleague, Janez Petnik, for his participation in the committee and I must say that I enjoyed working with him and, of course, with others, and I hope that there will ever be any opportunity for such cooperation. In fact, we will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 27 votes against 7. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. However, we continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on changes and additions to the energy law. Since the draft law was uncoordinated because of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body and in the third reading at the meeting of the assembly, the Government prepared the harmonisation amendment to Articles 40 and 45, which you received on the bench. However, I give the floor to the Government's representative on the harmonisation amendment. Mr. Shircel, is that you? Then I ask, do Members and Members wish to speak on this matter? Not at all. I conclude the debate, then we can move on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 39 votes against none. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] The harmonisation amendment has been adopted. That is why we can move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 27th A Point to consider the proposal for a law on amendments to the Insurance Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. There's a mag with us. Andrej Shircelj, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. In accordance with the fifth decision of the National Assembly, which was adopted at the 37th extraordinary meeting on the issue of capital concentration in Slovenia, the Government adopted a bill amending and supplementing the Insurance Act and forwarded it to the National Assembly for adoption following an emergency procedure. This novel enhances supervisory powers, introduces supervisory measures and strengthens the institutional independence of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The draft law was also dealt with on the home labour body, where certain amendments were adopted. In short, what does the law really say? It enhances supervisory powers by providing for the obligation to transmit data to those persons who have been alerted by the Insurance Supervisory Agency and are persons of public and civil law who are obliged to provide the Agency with data which, in accordance with Article 39 of the Company Act, constitute a business secret or are treated as confidential data. If someone does not do so, a fine of EUR 50,000 is at stake, or if they do not respect the Agency's conclusions, up to 1% of the taxpayer's annual income. It is also possible for the Insurance Supervisory Agency to determine the number of employees on its own and also to establish wage policies, depending on the extent of the resources it has, so that people working in responsible jobs are paid better. These are essentially the main changes, the main solutions, in order to ensure greater control of the financial market in Slovenia and to address possible irregularities faster and more effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u109	Thank you very much. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. The chairman of the committee, please. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 39th emergency meeting, on 20 June. 6 and 24. 6. Consider also the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. The College of the President of the National Assembly is at its 140th session. 6. decided that the proposal should be considered in accordance with the urgency procedure. We have obtained the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service with comments on Articles 1, 3, 5 and the transitional provisions of the bill in question. Coalition parliamentary groups: Slovenian Democratic Party, Nova Slovenija, Slovenian People's Party and Democratic Party of Pensioners are on 24. 6. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the amendments were tabled at 1, 3, 5 and to a transitional provision, i.e. new paragraphs 6a and 6b. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance attended the Committee. The reasons for the adoption of the law were explained by a representative of the Government. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 3 and 5 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups and to the new Articles 6a and 6b. In the light of the amendments adopted, the Committee has drawn up, in accordance with Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure, an updated proposal for a law for which we propose that the National Assembly also adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At the end of the session, it is likely that the best position will be the shortest position. I will therefore, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, say that we intend to support both the Insurance Act and the Market of Financial Instruments Act, which are proposed for a very simple reason. The essence of both laws, which are so - called Siamese twins, is to ask who is running faster. Are those who search for loopholes in marriages and fill their private accounts or those who would like to patch these holes? The government recognises that, for now, they are the first to move faster and proposes some measures to change this. For this reason, therefore, because we are supposed to prevent the possibility of abuse, because we are supposed to prevent severe social degradation in our society, because we are supposed to prevent the incidents of rapid wealth, we will support both laws in the Desus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Ambassador Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, despite the good will, I must say that you have also read for yourself that it is a non-systemic solution, that it is a matter of employment and funding, and that these two issues, which could contribute to positive solutions, would constitute exceptions to the Public Servants Act or the Public Sector Wage System Act. Therefore, it is necessary to transfer the content of the laws under consideration, I am talking about both of them, into the system laws that I have mentioned. These are also the Law on Public Agencies, the Law on Public Servants and the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System. Once again, it is not a matter of opposition to will and desire, as it is said at home, that these people would have more free breaths, in order to be better paid, to be more independent, to choose for themselves or to employ the number of people, if necessary. This is a violation or a non-systemic solution and the consequences of this non-systemic solution will, of course, be many more and similar, and the Public Servants Act and the Public Sector Wages Act will eventually collapse. In the Slovenian National Party for the reasons stated, we cannot and will not support the proposal for an insurance law for the time being.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Lipa Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! I agree with the speaker who said that in fact the government is hunting a rabbit that has almost escaped. Regardless of the fact that both of the laws that follow us are the result of a session that this Government has popularly called the "Takkun meeting" and that we are hunting for a rabbit that has long since taken away all those roots, and can also somehow be concealed in an illegal way. Today, we are waving holes that turned out to be the ones from which it was possible to dig roots. Believe me, anyone else will be anything else, if there's any left, but I know of some other companies that have remained in state property to take away, you'll be happy to see that this law is supported or not, this bunny will take it away. As regards the fact that the Insurance Supervisory Agency is given in quotations, some form of autonomy and sovereignty, since, in the context of determining the number of employees themselves, the extent of the funds within its financial framework, we must not forget that all these employees remain under the auspices of the Public Servants Act, while the Director is called "capo di ganga" of this agency, he enters into a contract directly with the Agency. At some point, the representative of the Government said that the Agency would also have more opportunities to obtain or request certain reports from now on. This law, as far as you have read it, shall enter into force the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal. One such report - why should Members and Members of the National Assembly not be familiar with the business of one of the companies called Paloma Sweet Top? Yes, because the administration, which is highly party-oriented, said it was a business secret. Despite the fact that this company is 71% state-owned. It is owned by me, you and the citizen and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And if we, as the highest representatives of the people, do not have the right to familiarize ourselves with the audit report of this company, I believe or guess, because I cannot be aware that there is a "hazard" in there, what this administration is doing there, which is client-oriented and comes from New Slovenia, I can only guess, because I cannot get acquainted with it. And how badly he manages the money of our citizens and citizens. On the basis of the adoption of this law, you have said that the Agency will be able or will have to inform or punish those who will not send these things to the Agency, I hope that this will happen as soon as the law enters into force, that the Agency will immediately start and act as it foresees by law to require that from Paloma and that all Slovenia will be aware of how it operates there. This week we received a letter that this is the secrecy of the two people who run this company, despite the fact that the company is 71% owned by the Republic of Slovenia. We will not oppose this law in the Lip Group. But I will be happy to wait next week and see the first step of this newly created independent and sovereign agency, whether it will require Paloma to do so. We know that Paloma has been targeting one of the ministers of this government for some time now and that his priority, his desire, even in narrations sometimes calls "my child" to destroy it before the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u117	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u118	Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u119	Procedural? Comrade Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My proposal is this, Mr Vice-President, meeting to watch the hall, not the floor, when your fellow Member discusses everything else, but not this law that we are considering today. That's the correctness you'd expect. And I would expect him, his fellow Member, and also all the others who will talk about everything else to cease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I apologize for allowing my fellow Member, Boštjan Zagorac, to speak in connection with Paloma with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by my colleague Srečko Hvauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to be brief, too, and I'm going to stick to the content of this agenda item. So, this amendment to the law before us, the amendment to the insurance law, has some four, five possible substantive changes, in particular in our Group of Members, to support those who are going in this direction in order to ensure more efficient and flexible action in order to ensure greater control in this area and to also determine how the data required by the Insurance Supervisory Agency is to be transmitted for decision-making. Of course, this possibility of transmission of data is of no real value unless sanctions are also imposed on those legal persons who do not provide or even repeat such infringements. And for this sanction, which amounts to up to €50,000 in the event of repeated rejection of this data, this sanction may also increase to 1% of the turnover of this legal person. We believe that such an arrangement is appropriate. So, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we will support these changes to the law. We note that they will reduce the possibility of abuse, increase efficiency in the area of insurance, greater orderliness and better supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u123	Thank you very much. My colleague Milan Petek will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! As most of us in this Chamber also in the LDS, we adopt or support the amendment of the Law on the Complementation of the Insurance Act because we believe that it provides a more appropriate legal framework for the functioning of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. We also believe that, in some basic principles, the market and the status of the supervisory authority are subordinated and supervised, and we therefore support the law as such, but we have some questions in this regard. We believe that, in principle, the political impact on the functioning of supervisory institutions should be avoided and, in our opinion, it would be reasonable to combine the Insurance Supervisory Agency, which we are talking about in this law, as well as the Securities Market Agency, as well as the part of the Bank of Slovenia, which everyone is overseeing in their own way the banking or insurance sector, and this would be a step towards real independence and in the proper control of this area, because the primary interest should be in reducing the impact of policy. As we attach ourselves to such solutions as the law provides for in the case of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, we are also naturally asked the question and, in fact, we are asking the Government why a similar solution does not apply in the case of the Competition Protection Office. In our view, a much more efficient functioning of the Competition Protection Office would also be achieved through the transformation into an agency, and it is obvious that one of the politicians, in this case Minister Vizjak, would not allow the transformation, as he would thus escape the leverage for political governance by both the Office directly and by some economic operators indirectly. Apparently, the current head of the office, Jani Soršak, also recognized this, felt political pressure, so he tried to change his organization, the government or the minister did not allow him to do so. And so this is a package that we should actually be talking about today in its entirety, not according to individual elements or individual measures. So this is actually how I wanted to bring the debate together and the position on both laws. We will support both marriages in the parliamentary group more because we believe that the minimum step forward is better than the situation now. However, we expect a comprehensive solution to this problem in the next term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Ciril Testen will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Vice President. A nice greeting to the representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! In New Slovenia, we welcome the Government's efforts to take the so-called anti-Tacunk extraordinary meeting seriously and to implement immediately some of the conclusions and tasks entrusted to Members. The proposal for a amendment to the Insurance Act thus entails the enforcement of the decision of the National Assembly, in order for the Government to propose urgent legislative changes that would further strengthen the role of supervisory institutions and reduce the possibility of abuse. The news comes not only from the conclusions of the National Assembly but also from the recommendations of the Committee of European Supervisors for Insurance and Occupational Pensions and from the conclusions of the Council of the European Union for Economic and Financial Affairs. The objective of the novelty is clear: the Agency for Insurance Supervisory must ensure independence. Independence from policy and economy in the decision-making of supervisory decisions, independence from the appointment of a member of the management bodies of the supervisory institution and financial independence which enables the supervisory institution and its experts to carry out appropriate work. In order to achieve this goal, the novelty brings the following key solutions. The Insurance Supervisory Agency shall be granted independence in employment and in deciding on the extent of the funding for specific projects. The aim is to involve independent experts and to stimulate them appropriately for work. In New Slovenia we support this solution, but note that the award must be proportionate to the quality and quantity of the professional work and that the agency's competence in employment and salary levels must not be produced and drained from control. The notice shall specify the method of transmission of the data required by the Agency for monitoring and decision-making. It also lays down sanctions where, at the request of the Agency, the legal person does not provide or transmits incorrect information. The data that the Agency may require include confidential information and business secrets, which is essential for the successful exercise of control. In Novi Slovenije we are convinced that the novelty follows the objective of ensuring the independence of the Agency for Insurance Controls, in an appropriate manner, so we will support it. However, we are aware that legislation is only the basis, but it does not solve the problem in itself. We therefore call on all those involved in the monitoring process to carry out their work in accordance with the legislation and, above all, in accordance with the principles of professionalism and ethics. We will also support the amendment of the law on the market in financial instruments, where the Securities Markets Agency is similarly regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik will present the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, Your Honor. Recently, some of the known concentrations of ownership and the inadmissibility of the coordinated operation of individuals in certain companies in Slovenia have occurred. We find that legislation is flawed. We have also argued this in this well-known, already mentioned extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly, but some ministers, especially economic ministers, have argued that we have very good legislation; but among other things, there is a lack of insurance law, which, despite four amendments and additions, needs new additions. The aim of the changes ahead is therefore to strengthen the Agency's supervisory powers, to introduce new supervisory measures and to consolidate the institutional independence of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The proposal for a law proposes that the Agency be granted independence in the employment and wage setting of employees. This does not mean that employees are excluded from the public sector wage system, but only an increased amount of funding is provided for specific projects requiring an increased level of work for employees working on these projects, which also allows for such a solution to the employment of external experts. Only then will it be possible to maintain the required level of quality staff and consequently quality decisions. However, supervisory powers and supervisory measures shall be strengthened by a provision which provides the entities with the obligation to provide the data necessary for the management of the Agency’s supervisory tasks and also for sanctions against infringements of those provisions. In line with our support for all the efforts made so far by the Government to better regulate the issue of ownership concentration, we will support the bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am also concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 1. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 27th B POINT OF THE DAY LINE, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the market of financial institutions. The bill was also submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, and this time I am also putting the word mag. Widespread for an introductory explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! As with the previous law, amendments and additions to the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments are mainly governed by the fact that the Securities Markets Agency will gain greater control, which means that supervisory powers will increase, take certain measures and, of course, strengthen the institutional independence of this Agency. As in the previous law, the Agency will also request certain information from legal persons in this regard, in particular in order to exercise more effective control. The fine of EUR 50,000 or up to 1% of annual turnover is at risk if the legal person does not implement the conclusions of the Securities Market Agency. In addition, the Agency's institutional independence is being strengthened, which means that an agency with its own funding resources can determine the number of employees, can also increase the number of employees and, of course, can manage employees' salaries more independently. Here, of course, wages increase, of course, depending on the size and quality of work. These are essentially the fundamental changes introduced by the Act in particular in the desire to regulate the negative effects brought by or brought by the concentration of capital in Slovenia, which were dealt with at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and, of course, this National Assembly also adopted Decision No 5 concerning the regulation of this area and thus the Government wants to regulate this area. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The Government proposes that the National Assembly adopt this proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, as a parent of the labour force, has considered the proposal of the law, so I would like to give the floor to my chairman, colleague Bojan Starman, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that again, Mr Vice President. That's a nice hello to you all. At its 39th urgent meeting on 20.6. and 24.6. below, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. This law shall be dealt with by means of an emergency procedure. We received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments on Articles 2, 5, 6, 10 and the transitional provisions of the Act. We have also received amendments from the Association of Investment Fund Management Companies on 19.6.2008 and amendments from the parliamentary groups: Slovenian Democratic Parties, New Slovenia, Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners, Articles 2, 5, 9 and 10, and new paragraphs 17a and 17b. I would like to say that we are talking about the increased powers of the Securities Market Agency, but we were talking earlier about the new greater powers of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. So, the content of these things is exactly the same. We have adopted the same articles, it is only two agencies that carry out - one supervision of the insurance market and one in the securities market. The Committee has adopted amendments and, in accordance with Article 133, has drawn up a supplementary proposal for a law that we propose to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We will move on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. In the course of the previous presentation, I think that they have presented the same position within the framework of the Group of Liberal Democrats, as well as within the framework of New Slovenia and within the framework of the party DeSUS. Thank you. Which means that the position of the delegation group can be taken by colleague Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! For the last time in this session. One more warning. The drafter of the law we are talking about clearly proposes that the Agency be given independence in the employment and wage setting of employees. One more time. There's nothing wrong if it's necessary if these people deserve it. It is wrong for this agency to belong to these employees in a single system called the public sector wage system. And the warning I'm talking about is, in this wage system in the public sector, there are many similar and few different institutions, and when this law is passed, I expect tomorrow, hypothetically, one other structure that is included in the system of public wages, the third, the fourth, the fifth, the sixth - they will all force, if they have the power, a law that we call a non-systemic law to change what it is - too bad that Minister Virant did not tell his opinion - Minister Virant built and built and praised everything. And a second time. The pure truth is that these two laws were created not because we heard basically because they were created because the agencies we're talking about are in an unequal position with other institutions that perform supervisory functions, for example with supervisory institutions in banks or with securities or others. They're not in an equal position, they're in a worse position, and through such a marriage over the 17th door, they've come up with this law to confess to them what they deserve. And if this law had already been approved, it would have been regulated by a single law for all institutions performing supervisory functions, and then there would have been no inequality, not in the Insurance Agency or financial instruments talking about how much worse, which is also clearly stated that professional workers in the agency - in the financial instruments market - are limited by a lower pay grade than other officials. It is not right, it is not fair, that in this way, through such laws, we correct the injustices that have occurred to some. Of course, with this law, we tear down the whole system. Once again, if the content of these two laws were to be incorporated into the system law, only this would have to be done, into the system law, and they would say that this and the agency are subject to this, and then this law could be adopted peacefully. Thus, we, the legislative branch that we are enacting, are essentially violating everything we did a year ago. And if we do not respect the laws that we accept, how can we expect others to do so? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u135	The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by colleague Boštjan Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u136	Thank you for your words, Madam President, I will follow the warning, I thank you for your procedural input, which gives the impression that the presentation of the position of the Lip Group in the previous law has been listened to, responded to, and thus proved that we have achieved the essence. As far as the law before us is concerned, I will not repeat the previous story, even though I believe that at least you who give procedurally would be happy to listen to it. It's that thing. It's just another time under another name. I can repeat the story of that rabbit that lived in the guest and three months of this government, which will have 18 articles of the law, and if I count down the articles that say when the law will enter into force and what law governs the concentration of capital in Slovenia. We will not be happy to oppose such a law in the Lip Group of Members, but the question arises to me: if this can be done by means of an urgent procedure with eighteen articles - what have you been waiting for four years? I mean, there was no need to make a major mental effort here, and this process is also necessary, so let's sort it all out in half an hour. Penalties ranging from one percent of the annual income to 50,000 euros, now that you will be able to prevent those who concentrate capital in any way from doing so, it seems to me that these penalties are more appropriate for you, given that capital will begin to concentrate primarily on the government's account. However, as far as control is concerned, I would only ask the government representatives once again, given that the law will enter into force on the first day following the publication, so that, if not otherwise, all Members of at least the e-mail will send an immediate result and one and the other agencies, what is going on in the area of Paloma, because this possibility is now the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u137	Thank you very much. My colleague, Bojan Starman, will also present the position of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that again. The Government amends this law in accordance with the adopted decision of the National Assembly at its 37th meeting, the purpose of the proposed legislative changes is to strengthen supervisory powers and also to introduce new supervisory measures and to consolidate the institutional independence of the Securities Market Agency. The Agency’s supervisory powers and supervisory measures shall be enhanced by a provision requiring the transmission of the data necessary for the performance of the Agency’s supervisory tasks and by legal standards only where the infringement is duly sanctioned. The proposed amendment therefore provides that all persons of public and civil law must, at the request of the Agency, transmit without delay all the documents and information they need for their work, including the information designated as business secrecy in accordance with Article 39 of the Company Act. The effectiveness of that legal norm shall be ensured by the provision of the submitted novelty relating to the provision of a fine in the event of failure to comply with that standard. These changes also increase the independence of the Securities Market Agency itself somewhere. I don't understand how this agency has worked so far. Clearly, it could not have worked very effectively because it could not obtain adequate documentation for its work. That's why it seems strange to me that only in front do we change this dictatorship in the law itself. The representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support this amendment of the law, as we have also very much supported the proposals in the debate at the 37th meeting, which should be followed in order to strengthen control in the securities market in all and in other institutions. This is one of the laws that improves this, so we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-27-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u139	Thank you very much. With your presentation, we have also concluded with the postponement of the positions of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am also concluding a second reading of the bill, which means that we can move on to a decision on the bill. Before that, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law, the proposal of the law due to amendments adopted on the labour force, would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, for 34, for 1. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. Before I conclude this agenda item, allow me to point out. Tomorrow is a football match between representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Croatian Parliament. All those who play are lucky and let's win. Thank you.
