ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, good morning. I begin with the continuation of the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed and inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Bogdan Barovič, Ljubo Germič, Ivan Grill by 12 noon, Ferry Horvat, Miran Jerič, Aurelio Juri, Dr. Marko Pavliha and Dr. Mitja Slavinec and mag. Franz Gniedarsich. On the basis of the agenda adopted, we are moving on to 2. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law to prevent restrictions on competition - within the framework of the ordinary procedure. I'm informing you that we have two hours and 10 minutes of time available for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members. Allow me to present briefly the proposal for a law to prevent restrictions on competition. The contents of the bill are restrictive practices of company concentration and government restrictions on competition. The regulation of restrictive conduct in the draft law is to bring regulation closer to the right community. Restrictive agreements between undertakings shall be prohibited and null and void. Cases of restrictive agreements and exceptions to the general prohibition are identified, agreements of minor importance and block exemption are defined. The abuse of a dominant position is also prohibited. The concept of dominant position is defined and examples of abuse of dominant position are listed. Let me rely on the essential innovations brought by the proposal to amend the law on the prevention of competition. The main novelty of the current applicable law is sanctioning. This means a fine of up to 10% of the company's annual turnover. As an offence, it is not only a violation of the legal provisions but also a violation of the provisions of the Office. Furthermore, an extension of the limitation period of 5 years also contributes decisively to effective sanctions. We know examples from today's practice, most of the cases that have been initiated before the Office and also where the Office has issued decisions, most of these cases have become obsolete within these deadlines. The new law also introduces the possibility of granting sanctions in the event of the cooperation of undertakings with the Office. We believe that this will contribute to further detection of alleged cartels, as companies will have the incentive to cooperate with the Office in order to avoid the prevailing fines. The new bill is also a cooperative duty. With regard to the effective functioning of the Office, the proposal for a law on the prevention of competition is first carefully regulated by the management of sector research, which the Office may carry out when the rigidity of prices or other circumstances indicates the likelihood of restricting or hiding competition in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In the context of undertaking research, the Office may address a request for the transmission of data by decision and in this case companies are obliged to provide the required data, otherwise they are at risk of a fine of up to EUR 50 000. If the company also refuses to cooperate with the Office in further procedures, the penalty may be increased to 1% of the company’s annual turnover achieved in the previous year. The news is also the beginning of proceedings before the Competition Protection Office, which is divided into two segments: restrictive behaviour and concentration. The proposal for a law on the prevention of restriction of competition explicitly states that the organiser does not have the position of a party, but has only the position of the client to which the process and the notification of the concentration is directed. The Office shall immediately initiate the procedure for the assessment of restrictive actions only on official duty. The second segment is the concentration. The Office shall initiate the procedure for concentrations on the basis of notification or on the basis of an official duty. However, the notification obligation arises when a two-step threshold is reached depending on the annual turnover of companies, meaning that annual turnover at the concentration of the companies involved together with the companies in the group in the previous business year on the market of the Republic of Slovenia has exceeded EUR 35 million. If, however, the annual turnover of the company taken over together with other companies in the group in the previous business year on the market of the Republic of Slovenia has exceeded EUR 1 million. The proposal for a law brings other innovations that will help to make it more effective and, consequently, will result in a smaller concentration on the market that does not reach certain proposals. And this threshold is also, I think, not mentioned earlier, a concentration of 60% of the market share on the market of the Republic of Slovenia. If the Office finds that an undertaking or group of undertakings exceeds such a percentage of market share, the Office shall invite undertakings to notify the concentration on an official basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the Vice-President, Mr Willy Rezman, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! At this time's 42nd meeting of the home labour force in this area, i.e. the Committee on the Economy, we dealt with the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act. The law has been drafted by the Government, which, as you know, has also withdrawn within a certain period of time, so that someone else can also be adopted, another law has been drawn up again, the Law on Offences, which is also bound to this area and has later reclassified it. The Law-Legal Service was the only one who, at least after the materials we received, reviewed this bill in detail, submitted a number of opinions on it, opinions on individual articles, which were mainly taken into account by amendments proposed by members of the coalition parties after its assessment on the working body. There were no other materials to be discussed. However, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise and, of course, representatives of the Ministry, who were in fact the only ones to participate more actively in the debate, participated. There was also so much debate, there were more explanations on the basis of which we talked about certain areas defined by law. The representative of the Government said that it was a categorical apparatus in the introduction, that it was a restrictive act, concentration processes, tasks, competences of the Office, procedures run by the Office and led by other bodies such as the Court. And there was also talk about the restrictive activities of the authorities. Of course, there was also a speech on sanctions at the end. The amendments submitted were adopted by approximately 25 of them. The three amendments were also adopted on a proposal from the Committee. And so, with the amendments supplemented by the bill, the Committee on the Economy has accompanied it on its way to the National Assembly, where we will discuss it today and I believe we will also adopt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of individual parliamentary groups. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Mr Martin Mikolič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Well-known, distinguished Secretary of State with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! During last year, we witnessed drastic food stimulation. If we compare them with auctions in other Member States of the European Union, we can see that prices in Slovenia have increased twice as fast as in these countries. There must have been a number of reasons for this, but even clean laymen can be found that competition does not work well enough. The small market, the low elasticity of consumers and the strong chains of merchants already at first sight show that competition in the field of food providers is clearly not working. The president of the "best neighbor" board, however, claims that consumers are mobile, is also mobile goods; any consumer can drive to shopping centres in Trst, Gorica, Celovec, Gradec and so on. Whether all consumers are really so mobile that for every litre of milk they drive to cross-border shops, we can ask questions. Here we are not asking ourselves what is the probability of the consumer doing it, but we are wondering if it really does. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the statements made by the President of the Board are the "best neighbour", which is tossing sand in the eyes of consumers. According to research, the three largest traders control 82% of the Slovenian market, which is worrying. Under the rules of competition, the dominant position itself represents a high potential for abuse, combined with concerted behaviour, which means even more serious distortions of competition. The Office for the Protection of Competition may not have imposed an unwarranted infringement procedure this January of Article 10 of the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act and Article 82 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. Mercator is intended to abuse its supposed dominant position on the market by requiring the signing of a contract with its suppliers of products for everyday use to require a number of unjustified contractual ratings that are not included in the calculation of retail prices and high discounts which are not expected to be justified by normal operating conditions. As the story ends, it will depend primarily on the management of the Office's procedure, and it is important that the procedure itself has started, as this has already warned all other potential offenders. This is just one of the cases where it is very questionable or competition even works. Competition is one of the foundations of European Community law, since only four fundamental freedoms can be realized through the full functioning of competition: free movement of goods, services, movement of workers and movement of capital. The 81st and 82nd Articles of the Treaty establishing the European Community are articles which are mostly used directly by all articles of the Treaty and which are also given their weight by a specific Directorate within the framework of the European Commission and the European Commissioner for Competitiveness. Since its adoption, the Competition Prevention Act has first followed comparable arrangements and has provided its content to the Competition Protection Office with a suitable basis for assessing the concentration of the company and the restrictive practices, and despite the fact that certain shortcomings that have led to the amendment of this law have certainly led to a long-term process, severe evidence and low fines have been encouraged by violators, the likelihood that they will receive me, the fines are low, and the penalty is, therefore, still worth violating. That's what they did to you. For this reason, it has also been repeatedly reported to the office that it is just a toothless tiger. Now the proposed fines are inadequately higher and are also determined by the percentage of annual turnover, which can be a very severe blow to an already successful company. The procedure will begin only after the official duty, and the parties shall be required to cooperate with an office which is able to impose fines in the event of non-cooperation. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the new anti-competitive law provides appropriate solutions to create competition that benefits both consumers and other economic operators. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The law has been upheld. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Member of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr. Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! In Slovenia, the economic initiative is free. This postulate is also recorded in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Free economic initiatives also do not show restraint, but appropriate frameworks must be drawn up so that such initiatives are not misused at the expense of competition, competitors and consumers in the first place. Effective competition is one of the basic conditions for the normal functioning of the market economy, which does not mean that companies on the market have the best possible position, both financial and market terms, on the contrary. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we welcome and support the proposal for a law to prevent the restriction of competition, which is before us today. This is a new law that we have adopted in Slovenia in the content that has been in force since 1999. Since competition law is faced with daily changes and with its new facts and market conditions, it is right to adopt the amendment of this law after almost ten years and to further align it with European Union legislation. The content of the bill is restrictive behaviour, concentration of companies and the competition authority. In our view, and we believe that the section's opinion, on a proposal for a law in the present procedure, has not been made much more relevant, the law will in particular increase the efficiency of the competition office and thus ensure that the purpose of the law is also in practice achieved. Without reservation, we support the law's solutions to mention only some; the extension of the limitation period, fines, certain percentages of annual traffic, the introduction of a cooperative duty, the ability to cooperate or assist the police, and sanctions for the non-cooperation of companies. The law allows an investigation to be carried out in other specialised organisations and so on. In short, it is clear from the debate itself at the committee and the responses or the lack of expert responses to the target public that the amendment is well prepared and that it will also provide the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and also businesses with effective competition, which is ultimately reflected in the well-being of all of us. That is why we believe in the parliamentary group that the law is good and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u10	Thanks again. When we talk about the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act, we need to take stock of the fact that we are talking about an economy based on capital and other institutions directly linked to it, namely the market, competition, competition on the market, great ambitions on profit motives and so on. All of this is related, I would say, to the interests of individual economic operators, who seek within this environment, we call it that, too, the privileges. We in the DeSUS Group are trying to strengthen the role of anti-competitiveness, which we are very often witnessing, so we are putting ourselves in a position to support this bill. We believe that, while it is necessary to establish competition, it must also be properly supported by regulation, but we also know that this competition cannot be completely free, but that it must be regulated, in particular it is noticeable now at the last moment, in the last period, even after major financial distortions in different markets where individual economic operators have been looking only for a purely individualised motive for maximising profits, it does not look at anything else, which is also related to this. The reason why this law has been submitted for consideration, as the applicant states, is further coordination with European regulation and also in an attempt to eliminate inefficiencies in this area, in particular inefficiencies as we have witnessed so far in relation to the Office for the Protection of Competition. And if we looked at the graph that talked about what this effectiveness was, we could see that in the last period since it was monitored, barely a weak 20% of the sanctions reported and of that only 7% of those who have suffered monetary sanctions. However, I do not know if there is much that these entities give, even on monetary sanctions, due to relatively low sanctions of this kind. This is slightly different in the European Union. The bill seeks to remedy some of the weaknesses that would benefit both consumers and fair competition, i.e. businesses, and ultimately the countries that would thus ensure the rule of law and consequently the elements of the social state. DeSUS is aware of the situation we have now. It is aware that we have a number of such competitive conditions that could be called agreed competition, we are aware of the oligopolistic, cartel or situation. We are aware that because of this, we are hit hard by high prices and negative consequences for consumers in the short term, and this is likely to be detrimental to economic development, technological, technical and other training in the long term. We therefore support competition policy in such a way as to liberalise monopolies, in such a way as to control the merger of enterprises and the concentration of power, in order to eliminate agreements concerning the restriction of competition and the abuse of a dominant position, as well as to monitor State aid control. Let me mention, by the way, this will now be repeated that we have already protested against another law, the Public Procurement Act 2, which was adopted on another committee proposed by the other ministry, which is probably against what we are adopting today. It speaks of what we should prefer, what we should give priority to public procurement by favouring local products, local producers, and thus somehow driving out competition from the domestic market. It is also not right, we consider, to favour a particular way of production, but if it is free competition, which is regulated, then every protectionism of domestic producers is over. So, for the reasons we listed earlier, because in the DeSUS Group we are counting on this law to bring more restrictions on competition, more fair competition, we will also support the proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u11	Thank you very much. My colleague, Happy Friend, will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. I believe that today we will hear several more formal claims, how necessary it is to accept that we also follow the directives of the European Union and so on. But let's take a little look, given the work of the Office for the Protection of Competition so far, what was done and what might not have been done. Thirteen years of operation is recorded by the Office for the Protection of Competition, and in those thirteen years, it has imposed only EUR 8,500 of mandatory penalties. You know, it's almost nothing if, of course, the data on the website is correct. I would also like to see a report, a more serious report from this office, and unfortunately it is not to be traced. And where are the infringements of the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act detected, I wonder. Data are not available. What was the epilogue like in all these cases, which went to the detriment of consumers and increased significant inflation in the Republic of Slovenia. Look, the banks have been charging fees unsupervised. NBB, Bank of Celje, New KBM, Bank of Vipa. It's electrical stimulation. No one reacted to that. Agreement on an increase in the prices of bakery products. Here we had cartel arrangements, grain, millet, classes, Ptuj bakery. The suspicion of harmonisation of the dairy and milk-processing industries, and no one reacted, no one. Who paid the price? Consumers. Who insured them? Nobody. Nobody. Your mouth is full of you. I just don't believe that. Given that the law contains a number of necessary amendments, and also this law is good in this sense, the country will be able to detect in a more transparent way, as you say, such arrangements and such frauds, which are particularly detrimental to users, especially those you have not cared about so far. For God's sake, we just woke up this year. I hope that sanctions will also improve. In particular, this attribute will also be used to repeal the decisions already made. It also offers this law, repealing the decisions already issued. It is true that the fines will be higher, in fact, that the office will also make a Senate decision. Today, we know that this is not so that the Director will have to appoint two more members and will be given a Senate sentence. In order to measure the penalty up to 10% of the profits in the company and, of course, in view of what is happening today, it will be possible to extend the statutes of limitations to a period of five years. All of this is true, we welcome this in the Slovenian National Party. But if there's no control and there's no more pressure on the office, because we suspect that the office is also dealing with capital. You know, all I've said before is one big capital. However, sometimes the interests of capital are also above the interests of consumers and unfortunately they pay you the whole difference. And it's free to make good laws. I think this law actually gives the tiger those teeth and the sharpness to be able to bite, but I'm afraid if this tiger is hungry enough to bite. It is likely that others will fill it with envelopes earlier, and in this case too, we think that it is in the office's work to date, that it is a corrupt act, that it is a bribery of this office, and that it does not result in persecution or that there is no competition on the market. But if there is competition, they offer us a third-rate product on the markets and we can get some food from America, which is either harmful or from other European countries with deadlines, which is obviously good for someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u14	Respectable present. Allow me to point out a thought or a theory in which we believe that without a successful economy there is no successful Slovenia, there is no successful or just social policy. The budget of the Republic of Slovenia is made up of more than 93% of tax revenue and the left share of tax revenue comes from companies. That is why I think the last period of the so-called fight against the Slovenian economy by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is a very courty sword. As far as the law before us today is concerned, the representative of the Government said, "The essential novelty is the sanctioning, restriction of economic operators within our country of the Republic of Slovenia." The market or market legality within the Republic of Slovenia represents an extremely small share within the new market of the European Union and if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is strictly and always committed to creating the smallness of Slovenian companies, Slovenian economic operators already within the Republic of Slovenia, then this will be more than micro enterprises within the European Union. We therefore aim to ensure that our companies are completely uncompetitive within the European Union. Given that we have not been exposed many times to the fact that the future of Slovenian companies is on European, global markets, we must therefore ask ourselves why restricting and sanctioning the size of Slovenian companies, whether vertical or horizontal integration, would be controversial if we pursue that global logic, so that without a successful economy, the Republic of Slovenia is not successful in all areas, whether culture, education, social or any other element which, unfortunately, is fashionably neglected in recent moments, financed from the economy or from tax policy. The Office for the Protection of Competition is given certain new powers on the basis of the new provisions of this Act, and they all go in the form of two dimensions or directions. First, exclusive restriction and second time sanctioning. From this title, it would be reasonable to ask in whose jurisdiction the Competition Protection Office operates, what procedures are under the Competition Protection Office and whether we have not witnessed in the past that the Competition Protection Office, regardless of what the new or the amendment of the law says, was exclusively one of those media authorities that are not intended or intentional, and I will be naive and I will hope that this is the intention to issue data during the process itself or during the decision-making process on individual matters. According to the Lipa Group, the creation of a small Slovenian economy will also translate into a small amount of expenditure for sport, culture, social and other elements that promote and enrich our country. However, I would like to point out very much, given that we have regrettably, under our Rules of Procedure a time limit of five minutes to at least our assessment, i.e., according to the assessment of the Lip Group of Members, in order to pursue those objectives which, at some declaration level, all speakers have expressed before me, for the Slovenian economy and thus for the Slovenian State, to introduce protective legislation. Legislation that will encourage, but not destroy, economic operators. Legislation that clearly indicates that Slovenia, the Slovenian Government, the Slovenian executive and legislative authorities want successful and quality companies, especially if we are looking at the future, especially if we are looking at a much wider than just a momentary political action, that is, attacking economic operators, that we also want successful and quality companies in the context of the new markets of the European Union that will be able to do more than just find minimum market niche. And if the answer is yes, then we wonder what the purpose of the law before us today is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Stane Pajk has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u16	Your Honors are here! The adoption of a new anti-competitive act is essential, particularly in order to harmonise Slovenian legislation with European Community legislation. This is mainly the case with Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. The content of the bill is limited by the conduct of company concentration and the restriction of competition. In addition, the draft law regulates the competence of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to protect competition, procedures and defines fundamental concepts. Restrictive agreements between undertakings shall be prohibited and null and void. The abuse of a dominant position is also prohibited. The concept of dominant position is also defined. However, these are examples of abuse of the dominant position. The draft law defines the functions and competences of the Office and confers a decision on individual matters within the competence of the individual non-permanent Chamber of Decisions. The decisions of the Office shall be final, and judicial protection shall be provided before the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law clearly specifies who has the position of the party in the proceedings. The draft law also authorises the Office to carry out sector surveys or individual types of agreements. On the basis of the findings of the surveys, the Office may initiate a procedure for assessing infringements of the laws. During the course of the investigation procedure, the Office may address to undertakings or certain persons requests for data transmission and carry out an investigation. If the undertaking and other persons involved do not cooperate, the Office may impose a fine. The draft law also clearly lays down the powers of investigators and the conduct of the investigation. This shall be initiated on the basis of an investigation decision and concluded with an investigation report. The draft law also defines how the Office is involved in investigations carried out by the European Commission or the competition authority of another Member State of the European Union. The draft law also regulates criminal provisions which provide for a fine of 10% of the company's annual turnover and a 5 year limitation period. Furthermore, it also introduces the possibility of suspension of sanctions. The proposal specifies exactly who has an obligation to notify competition and within what time frame. It shall be 30 days from the conclusion of the contract, the publication of a public tender or the acquisition of control. Concentrations are also subject to a 10% annual traffic fine, which is due to non-agreement of the implementation of the concentration in contravention of the law, failure to comply with corrective measures and obligations. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that such a proposal is urgently needed, as we can expect fewer irregularities on the market from its adoption and thus better the functioning of the market, so we will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Milan Cvikl on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u18	Good day, Mr President, thank you for your word. Greetings to the representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law on the prevention of restrictions on competition. This is a rather extensive law that follows European normative trends and, in particular, the new richer practice of the European Commission and the courts in the field of anti-competitiveness. However, it is necessary to modernise concentration control also through new measures to help more effectively detect and prosecute distortions of competition on the European Union market, and it is right to follow more modern guidelines in this area in Slovenia. In principle, we can therefore agree with the new law's proponents that the existing law of the same name is now somewhat outdated because the provisions are too general and do not provide sufficient levels of legal certainty, since it does not specify the rights, obligations and not the powers that the Competition Protection Office has in legal proceedings. It is good that the new law gives the Office significant powers to detect and prevent the so-called cartel agreement between companies and the prohibited conduct of taking ownership in companies of the so-called concentration. This does not mean, however, that, under the current law, the Office for the Protection of Competition would not have been able to do its work better in the past period, particularly when there was a suspicion of these prohibited practices. It is known that the consequences of this on the one hand are borne by consumers buying more expensive goods and services and small shareholders who have often brought a shorter end to the changes in the ownership structure in companies at the expense of large owners. Social Democrats welcome the current involvement of the Office for the Protection of Competition in detecting and preventing the various practices that accompany competition on the market. We believe that the Office will use exclusively professional and not any other criteria in its work, and we closely monitor its work. The role of the Office will be even more important in the future, as in many of its decisions it will have to take into account the so-called criteria of greater benefit for consumers. It is probably not necessary to emphasise how certain decisions of the Office, in particular in the economic situation of higher inflation, may affect the situation of the most socially disadvantaged. An important novelty in the proposed new regulation, which seeks to follow the proposal of the law, is the economic approach highlighted if you want to be aware of the importance of economic knowledge in deciding on competitive and legal matters. And these economic knowledge, which has so far not been sufficiently represented, is becoming the basis of decisions in complex competitive cases. Lawyers work more closely with economists specialised in market definition, market power and analysis of specific types of business practices. It can be found that the mere application of the law, the legal rules for the assessment of anti-competitive practices is insufficient and can lead to wrong, incomplete decisions or not to a decision at all. And these may be fatal for a particular market or participant in it. I cannot help but mention here that it is the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Ministry of Economy, in its communication with the European Commission on the Mercator case, that has misinformed the European Commission and that the decision of the European Commission has been at least indecisive or incomplete. So there is a big change ahead of us in preventing the restriction of competition. And if it is already possible to judge that, under this law, the Office for the Protection of Competition will address new challenges, we are much more concerned about the willingness and expertise of Slovenian courts to decide on competitive administrative matters. There is nothing to help if we get some legal proposals for judicial decisions if the Slovenian courts are not prepared to do so. And these days in the National Assembly we are very much discussing these issues, but without discussion on how to better prepare Slovenian courts for this. We will support the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u19	Mr Milan Friday has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u20	Nice greeting to a colleague, a colleague, a representative of the Ministry! Today we are talking about a law that is almost unheard of by great reservations about not accepting it. And also in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are aware that the adoption of a new anti-competitive law is necessary both to harmonise Slovenian legislation with European legislation, but also to rationalise the procedure before the Office of Competition Protection, as well as to further proceedings against its decisions. The law also regulates restrictive conduct, which is approximate to the law of the community. Restrictive agreements between undertakings shall be prohibited and null and void. Cases of restrictive agreements and exceptions to general prohibitions are identified. They are defined by a small-value agreement and group exemption. The abuse of a dominant position is also prohibited, the concept of a dominant position is defined and there are also examples of abuses of a dominant position to be coordinated. In our view, too, the law is needed because it allows for a more effective system of control, detection and sanctioning of infringements. The proposal for a law on the prevention of competition extends the powers of the Office for the Protection of Competition, increased fines and extended the limitation deadlines for offences. Hence, a number of things can be listed and could still be listed as giving the marriage an important role. Today, however, we ask or ask the Government why it did not come about earlier with such changes. Clearly, something must always happen that the government is beginning to realize that there is nothing to be done. And in this case, inflation had to happen to the government and its authorities to collapse. The government has given the law an important role, as stated, to the Office for the Protection of Competition for Combating High Inflation. In our view, this role of the Competition Protection Authority is overestimated in limiting inflation. It is true that, in the absence of anti-inflation measures, the potential role of the Office in this case is also welcome. And at current events, we ask ourselves whether the actual office in such a role and such a situation is not a toothless tiger. The current action taken by the Office against coordinated action to date does not, at least, feel that it would have any effects on the reduction of prices or on the reduction of inflation. Despite the fact that the Office has brought anti-trafficking proceedings against the dairy industry, against certain suppliers, against electricity distributors, nothing has actually happened. They are prices and continue to rise, inflation has increased and on an annual basis is increasing. This clearly confirms the fact that the primary role of the Office for the Protection of Competition is to strengthen the competitiveness of the non-changing sector. Of course, this function is of a longer-term nature and cannot have immediate effects, so we believe that this is an essential element of the legislation put forward in the process. Therefore, despite the fact that the Office has failed at this point against inflation, despite the fact that the Government has not actually found the prescriptions for this and has in fact put the Office in an unappreciative role, we believe that the purpose of the law is good, that the role of the Anti-Coordinated Functioning Authority in the law is also well defined, and all of these are stronger reasons than the reasons for doubting the efficiency of the Office in combating inflation, and that is why we will support the Prevention of Competition Act in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 26.3.2008. We have two amendments in the amendment review, namely Articles 45 and 81. I ask all debaters to stick to the content of the amendments as prescribed in the Rules of Procedure. As stated in the debate, I am putting forward Article 45 and the amendment of the SDS and NSI groups of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Janez Petty Officer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u22	Thank you very much. This amendment refers, therefore, to ensuring that the Office is empowered to intervene and act, although these conclusions are not yet legally binding. I think that this is necessary in order to be able to understand from all the procedures of the state institutions that this office will not only be a paper tiger, as mentioned earlier, but that it will also be effective. But what is it that actually occurs in all these procedures? That the office intervened at the office, but there was always a question of what these effects were. And these effects are unfortunately negative in Slovenia, at least what has been shown so far, and therefore these changes, which are in the law and also in this article, are important for its effectiveness. However, it should also be stressed that the work of the Office will not be effective if the thought in Slovenia does not change, that the foundation of our society, the basis of economic activity, however, is freedom, the freedom ahead of others, I do not rule out other values, but that is the basis and this must also be a message from this law. In particular, there are monopolies, various connections, backstage games, including quasi national interests, which are just a pretext for looted civilian pockets. All negotiations, and then not least, how should state institutions then intervene, when on the other hand we also have the creation of chambers, an association based on obligations. These are then the basis of this inappropriate integration and pressure and blackmailing of higher prices, either - just yesterday we had an interview in relation to the Chamber, the Bar - as if the Bar would be the one who must have the key word in these matters, quite the opposite. A country that enforces such a system, a corporate system, has problems with monopolies, with connections, with concentration of capital. Finally, we see that this capital, which can have good effects on the development of social policy, for the development of economic growth and prosperity, but also because it is not, and this we have a number of cases where capital has passed these fundamental frameworks and becomes a fundamental tool for people's control, for raising prices, for instigating and more. The law itself, and I also support this amendment, because it gives greater efficiency, and this has been the question so far - whether we will have a serious institution to achieve free economic activity, freedom and, on this basis, equality, or whether we will continue what we have unfortunately seen in the past. So the amendment is appropriate, and I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I see there's still a desire to discuss it. Anyone else besides my colleague Lucky Friend? No, no, no. My friend Lucky Friend, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, indeed, this amendment gives power to the office immediately and can, in fact, act in some way as soon as it detects irregularities. Oh, yeah. Look. Honey, inflation, which is also a generator of poverty, which is at least 25% -- at least statistics show that the reasons for all of this are also hidden in these cartel arrangements, in the fact that the office has not done its duty so far as I should have said before. And of course, even in what we all find, but the reason we are changing the law today is to follow a European directive, a European standard. In particular, the competition rules enshrined in Articles 81 and 82 of the Treaty on the Constitution of the European Community. A long time ago, it has been shown that the law in force offers the guardians of competition too weak support for effective work. He's too determined, he's too strict, the office that carries out the statutory tasks doesn't have enough authority - all of this is true, but who will supervise this office with more powers tomorrow? This law will undoubtedly experience the necessary support today and so is so, but I wonder if this weight of citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia will not continue at the same pace. For we know that at the end of the day the account comes to the one who has the least purchasing power, because there are agreements in the background and, of course, there are no competing products on the trade shelves, prices are harmonised, the minimum differences are, in short, a kind of crime that no one wants to see because it is the middle of a big capital game. And I would like to ask the government representatives whether this time it will be better, we will have a quality marriage, but there can be even greater consequences. Because if this policy continues as it is to this day, that the successful are big, that unites into even greater ones, and they do not change and combine brands, but just coordinate prices, then this will increase the pressure of our citizens and citizens tomorrow. The government is going to say, and you're going to do a Pilate wash of your hands, "yes, we've adopted a good marriage, and now we're going to do it tomorrow, the day after tomorrow." I want to know what will be the control of this office, we know that decision-making will be collective, that the Director will have to have two more members of the Commission to determine the legality and correctness of the decision-making and other procedures, but that is not enough to guarantee that we can claim that there will be some real efficiency here. And that is why I would really like to hear from the representatives or the proponents today the argument that this control will be carried out transparently and legally, because it is the office that essentially makes me feel that something is wrong with it, because it has not done its job to date as it should. I have said before, it is embarrassing to see other organisations of this kind around the world, that in the 13 years of their operation, respected colleagues and colleagues, the office only goes down 8,500 euros, elsewhere in the world, these amounts are millions, reaching hundreds of millions, companies are closing down because they have violated the basic principle, this is the principle of competitiveness. It seems to us that it is a sacred rule that we negotiate for electricity, for bread, for milk, for the price of petrol and everything else that is out there in some inn, and it is then billed to citizens and citizens. However, the total amount is expressed in poverty. 41% of citizens and citizens depend on social transfers. Isn't that a disgrace to Slovenia? I think so. And if that percentage goes up, then I don't believe in this marriage, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u25	Thank you. Once again, in the context of the debate on Article 45, these are not my rules, the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been adopted by you. Please, Members, hold on to this. Can we move on to another article? You want a word? I give the government my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to briefly answer the question raised. True, although the figures speak slightly differently, so far a very low value of fines has been imposed for restrictive conduct and enforcement of competition, but this is also due to the existing law that the existing law did not give the Office the right to impose fines itself, the fines have been handed down by the courts. And as I said in the introductions, the proceedings before the court were long and many, many cases, most of the cases that the Office had already dealt with, issued, were obsolete. This law introduces new rules of the game - if I may say so - which should be followed by all economic operators in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. I am pleased that I have actually heard from all the members of this group a positive attitude towards this law. It is true, however, that this law - I believe it will be adopted today - will then also be implemented in practice and implemented expeditiously. I believe that the Office for the Protection of Competition, like any other office, is also dependent on the staff. We all see, we feel that under the new leadership, the office has grasped more forcefully into its hands. Certain investigations into restrictive actions are carried out in the commercial segment of suppliers of bakery products, electricity distributors and similar matters. And we believe that this law, which is a modern law that is a competitive law to the other Member States of the European Union, will bring what can accelerate the prevention of restrictive acts in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Before that, the word "sanctioning" was mentioned. That's right. However, acts that are proven by the Office to certain economic operators or connected persons shall be sanctioned. And that is why it was also expressed, as you yourself said, a low value of fines in current practice. The highest possible fine for infringements of the worst cases of restriction of competition has so far been €375,000. It is said that it is very negligible for economic operators reaching out to 100 million annual turnover. I'm talking in euros. I believe that the implementation of this law will put competition in Slovenia and the competitiveness of restrictive actions in the right place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I would like to reiterate my invitation to Comrade Drobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that I can explain in these few seconds. Yeah, then who's supposed to be in charge of this office? I think that no one should control it, that it has to have its status and that it adheres primarily to legislation. God does not let it be directed by the government or anything like that to happen to what was happening. And once again, the Office will carry out its duties and obligations and its mission only if the whole country behaves that way. That she will not see in those national monopolies as something good that is in the national interest. But to see that this is a danger to the citizens. And that all citizens will also understand that, I don't know, 80% of the property of a Slovenian country is owned by a company, that it is in the national interest. No, because it's not in the citizens' interest. Because it's the basis for a monopoly. Of course, the key interest is to have a free country and, on this basis, of course also equality of opportunity. And that's why this office has to have an independent position.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 45. I am putting to the debate Article 81 and the amendment of the SDS and NSI groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.45. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government for their participation and for their answers. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL FOR A LEGISLATION OF A DEFINITIONS REFERRED TO IN THE FIELD OF THE REPRESENTATIVE PROCEDURE. I'd like to inform you that we have two hours and 10 minutes of time available for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In view of the fact that I've seen two procedural claims before, I'm asking before the explanation, three. It means we're going in order. The first has the word, procedurally, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, on behalf of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. The whole complication or the unresistance of provincial legislation has reached its peak. I will also say in the vote on the agenda of this sitting. At that time, Members of the Lip Group also contributed their three signatures to the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda. If you allow, just briefly, why am I making a procedural proposal, which is that Members of the Lip Group will announce obstruction of handling this item on the agenda. The fact is that laws that touch the provincial legislation or division of Slovenia into so many and so many provinces are bad laws or completely unreal in their content. Today we have on our agenda a second reading of the proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks under the jurisdiction of the provinces. Although today we do not know how many provinces our country will be fundamentally divided into. How, then, can we talk about the transfer of tasks to the provinces when, at the first reading of this same law, which was carried out at the January meeting, we clearly and loudly say that we have no idea what the provinces are actually going to do? We don't know what tasks. We don't even know what social funding will be. So, social tasks that are supposed to move from country to country. We do not know how public health will be financed and which public health tasks will be carried out by the provinces on behalf of the country or on behalf of the inhabitants of a province. That's bad. That's a sick move. Weaker so much because you don't want to listen to serious substantive warnings. What we should take into account when we talk about provinces or provincial legislation is a priority. The priority of importance is undoubtedly a law that speaks of the number of provinces. When we have a clear definition of how many provinces we want in our country, or if it makes sense to have them, then we will also be able to talk about the transfer of tasks to individual provinces. Therefore, as has already been said, on behalf of the Lip Group, I am announcing obstruction in the handling of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Taken to behavior. My friend Lucky Friend is also procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is a scandalous continuation of this agenda item, ladies and gentlemen. Given that you will, of course, continue this debate today by means of a law that regulates this jurisdiction by law and amends twenty-five regional laws and has already tabled one hundred and fifty amendments, which shows the great unreality of the applicants. Therefore, we will not participate in the Slovenian National Party this time as well. We're predicting obstruction. Otherwise, until now, we have not really wanted to participate in this mess, which will be in fact once again if it is put on the account of citizens and citizens. Look at the chapter that defines the financing of the landscapes. You'll see there's a great deal of unreality there. 10% of all funds are earmarked for financing the landscapes. The transfer takes place on the roads to the provinces, public institutions, health care, hospitals, education, kindergartens and so on. [[...]] Who's gonna pay for all this? Once again, the government will laugh nicely and wash their hands Pilately. The budget will remain in Ljubljana, but in fact the provinces will deal with themselves. If you accept them, of course, they will have to deal with all the problems themselves. In short, scandalous and piggybacking is to continue with this reception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u33	Thank you, too. Your procedural proposal has also been taken into account. Third under the procedural proposal. Comrade Run for SD, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Members and Members will not participate in this agenda item. We are convinced that the way we deal with provincial legislation is no longer funny, but it is becoming a big deal. The ruling coalition, when it is aware that it has no support for the opposition and that it is aware that at least one law is in place, is the Law on the Establishment of the Provinces required by a two-thirds majority of the Members present, believes that it will solve what by enacting the law. Not your honor, I suppose, because it's nonsense. There's probably no such thing as a meaningful solution. Because we all know that at least three laws are substantively linked to represent the whole. This is the establishment of landscapes, which means their size, their territory, their number. This is a way of financing, which means that we will respect the principles of self-financing. This level of local communities, too, or not. And this is a question of jurisdiction that certainly depends on what the province will be. Because it depends on how it is financed and what it can do. There is no common discussion on these issues. But every time he tries to re-admit just one marriage and expect it to be like we've done something great. Perhaps even with the promise made in half, because we are open to debate. Yesterday, under criminal law, we listened to nice speeches by members of the coalition about how they would like to make amendments for impossible solutions, because they will accept everything we propose, provided that it is wise to judge them. It's similar to what's happening here. I think it's about time. Unfortunately, we have to say this more than once. But it has been a while since the coalition has come to its senses and it is possible to find a solution for the green table by formally asserting the number power that the coalition has, but certainly not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Procedurally on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, Milan Petek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Vice President. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will say nothing new than that it is in such a way to adopt such important legislation not only as farce, but already tragically. In all of this, the position of minister is also tragic, who, in my opinion, is doing his job honestly. However, today or at this point, more so by the direction and command of the President of the Government than by his own belief that it is appropriate to continue to deal with this legislation. We have experienced that a key law fell at the February session. This is the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes. With this fall of the key law, we already said that day that it was pointless to continue to discuss all the other laws directly linked to this key law. We're doing it again today. It is a fact that until we know and have an adopted law that will specify exactly the number of provinces that will determine the boundaries of these provinces, which will of course determine the number of inhabitants in these provinces, it is pointless to continue any discussion or any consideration of the law, such as that which today the members of the coalition, headed by Minister Žagar, wish to continue the debate. Especially this law, which we know interferes with twenty-five regional laws. For which the Legislative and Legal Service, in its opinion, found that it was pointless, that it was nomotechnically questionable, that it was inconsistent, indicating that ministries had written content in various ways. We simply do not intend or want to cooperate in such a farce. For this reason, I repeat many times in this consideration the statement made. The LDS will obstruct the session from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u37	Buddy Friday, is it just this point or is it even a session? Just that point. And my friend Lakhovnik. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Also in the Group of Members, we are really predicting obstruction at this point of the agenda. In particular, because the arguments of the profession, rather than the opposition, have not been taken into account in the discussions so far. The best example of this is that, in fact, solutions are still not fully clear in specific areas today, if we look at them. Let's talk about a health sector where it's not clear what that means for a network of public hospitals. However, this should be an area of funding where we would have landscapes, but we would not have provided them with autonomous sources of funding. So the solutions you are offering are bad - and we have repeatedly warned that there is a need to exchange expert opinions on this. That didn't happen. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which I myself have seen, respected Mr Minister, is one of the most extensive opinions I have seen in the last period - and they point to a whole range of illogical solutions. They caution that these 50 laws, which are changing as a large package, are being amended so that they are already at odds with each other. Simply because the solutions you offered for one day, then the second day you changed again. And it all reminded me of some kind, even though Christmas is already over, as if we had some Christmas tree, where everyone hangs the ornament where he wants it. And then you get one written thing that someone might like, not another. But in such a serious matter as the introduction of landscapes, it can be very dangerous because solutions are inconsistent. And whether you like it or not, the Law-Legal Service also warns. And last but not least, until the size and number of landscapes are known, it is also difficult to talk about the jurisdiction of the provinces. I hear that's clear to everyone. Therefore, these laws should be dealt with in a related way. Which is what we have always warned about in the Group of the Messengers. But it didn't happen. Because this project is political prestige. It is simply forgotten that when we introduce the provinces, we will introduce them in the long term, not in the short term. It is therefore very important that the solutions we are about to introduce be carefully reconsidered. That is why, as I said, we are predicting obstruction at this point in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u39	Thank you, too. My colleague, Willy Rezman, on behalf of DeSUS, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, since it is not merely rhetorical, so that there is no need to answer, they ask two questions: Who will deserve it or who will be guilty? Who will be responsible for the adoption or not for this provincial legislation? Let me once again say our position, because some - they are sounding down now with benches, it is still not clear - they are convinced that they know more about our position than we do. But they're probably wrong about that. When it comes to decentralising the country, when it comes to faster development of less developed parts of our country, and so on, there is probably no one in the National Assembly who hopes to oppose it. While we are committed to decentralisation for the vertical division of power, for faster regional development, it does not mean that the path chosen is such that it can be supported by all. We see that in recent months Parliament has been divided into half. That half of Parliament opposes the adoption of this legislation, that half of Parliament is inexorable when it is adopted in every way. However, our parliamentary group has always tried to fail - and this is going badly - to ensure that, with its presence at the meetings, at least so that the negotiations can continue. This, therefore, is not a successful continuation of the negotiations. Now, as we can see, there is only a conclusion that - not a coalition, as some say wrong - whether representatives of the three coalition parties will be able to ensure that no one will be sick in their vote, that no one will be on the road, and that they will be able to obtain any more of the minority Members. Otherwise, this and such legislation cannot be adopted. So when it comes to nailing this kind of legislation, it's kind of pointless to insist on it. To divide Slovenia into provinces with such great opposition and possibly to achieve this by one majority vote in Parliament. That doesn't make any sense. Even so, this will not happen later in the marriage when the two-thirds majority has to be assured. But even there, voting technology could make anyone else happy. But also the DeSUS Group, which has so far provided the quorum of this, has no purpose anymore. We hope this won't hurt us. We hope that our coalition colleagues will understand this as another warning to make mistakes. And if they can win with one vote, let them know that this is a great defeat.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u41	Thank you. Then I'll repeat it for the record. So colleague Willi Rezman also announced obstruction on behalf of the DeSUS Group. This means that we have witnessed the obstruction of the Lip Group, by the SNS Group of Ambassadors, by the SD Group of Ambassadors, by the LDS Group of Ambassadors, by the Zares Group and by the Desus Group of Ambassadors, which means 6 of the 9 groups sent. I propose to suspend or suspend the meeting at this time, to convene a consultation with the leaders of the groups of Members. The Rules of Procedure give me that option. However, I call on everything to be able to do so much wisdom and to put forth so much effort to try to find a way forward in the work world. The office will be in room 217 at 10:25. Mr. Secretary, please, if you'll join us. Thank you very much. Until then, I'm adjourning the session, which we'll continue at 10.45.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u42	Messengers and Members! We continue with the earlier adjourned meeting for consultation with the leaders or representatives of the groups of Members. In view of the fact that the amendment has not been decided within the framework of the working meeting, we shall continue the meeting as envisaged and adopted at the time of consideration of the agenda. As previously said, the draft law was submitted to the Council by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Ivan Žagar, Minister without a passport in charge of local self-government and regional policy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First, I would touch the entire package of legislation with two sentences, which I believe is still present. He's in, too. This whole package consists of two parts. One part is this substantive part, represented by three basic laws. This Thursday is an upgrade to basic laws and other two laws, which are the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes and the Law on Election Units. With regard to the substantive part of this legislation, I must say that this legislation has been prepared for more than two years, that the professional public participated in this preparation, that, through a debate that has also been conducted by the opposition, as long as it has participated in this debate, a number of issues have been cleared up so that a number of solutions have been found. However, some questions remained open. If it is political will, it is also possible to close these issues in this mandate. However, I certainly believe that this substantive part of the legislation is meaningful and necessary for this mandate to be adopted. Otherwise, it may also occur to indications that the degree of decentralisation appears to be decreasing significantly downwards and that the whole process needs to be relaunched. Which may mean that the following mandates will not reach the provinces which Slovenia urgently needs. As for the law before you. This law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces is second-hand. In opening, I would like to point out that its content on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Policy has been complemented. Also on the basis of the opinions given by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. However, the comments of the local communities and those who took part in the debate are also summarised. The complementary text of the law is, in my opinion, the right path that leads us to the goal. This is to determine the content of the operations of the provinces, which is at the same time the basis for the financial decentralisation of Slovenia. This is what we urgently need in Slovenia in terms of faster development. By defining the tasks of the provinces, we will place the provinces in the Slovenian legal system, although the legislative process to establish the provinces has been partially completed. I agree with the argument that the definition of the tasks of the provinces and their transfer to the jurisdiction of the provinces and the establishment of the provinces are substantively linked. However, I do not agree with the claim that the early integration of the landscapes into the legal system could occur. In order not to dispute this in terms of the principle of legal certainty and the rule of law, the amendment was adopted by the Committee to determine the transitional period by which it will be ensured that the tasks delegated to the provinces will also be carried out in the event of their subsequent establishment. Although I think it would make sense for the provinces to be established already in this mandate and that this political will of all parties is to be found. Last but not least, when the Constitution was changed, they also promised those who needed the most. These are the inhabitants and inhabitants of Slovenia. For I do not think it is possible to assume that the provinces in Slovenia will not be established. When I further substantiate these solutions, I would like to recall a number of laws that already deal with the area of provincial tasks. Like, for example, some laws. For example, the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and Others. The law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces is a special law, part of which is certainly an infringement of the applicable sectoral laws. In order to follow the guidance set by the Constitutional Court when it assessed the constitutionality of the Act on the takeover of State functions carried out by the authorities of the municipalities by 31.12.1994. When he stressed that the way in which this law took over the tasks of previous municipal administrations was not appropriate. However, one or more laws should distinguish the tasks of municipalities and state authorities. The law on the transfer of tasks under the jurisdiction of the provinces will therefore carry out such a delimitation of tasks. The border will not only be between the country and the provinces but also between the provinces and the congregations. Our primary starting point was not to interfere with the existing task of the congregations. I would like to point out that the Law on the Transfer of Orders under the jurisdiction of the Provinces cannot be considered as a set of novel laws, but its content is broader. I believe that only such a law can ensure a simultaneous and balanced transfer of powers to the provinces, the transfer of real and financial assets intended to carry out delegated tasks, and the acquisition of public servants. Otherwise, they would have been in the same situation as they were 13 years ago when the congregations were established. However, we did not have jurisdiction under the laws of the field. Therefore, it was not clear what their property was and whether they were and what kind of work the legal heirs of the former congregations or countries were. The content of the law was, on the basis of the amendments adopted by the committee, supplemented by a nomotechnical addition to the obvious that the law is nomotechnically prepared and that it has been prepared by individual ministries responsible for amending and supplementing the laws contained in the proposed law. That's a fact. It is essential that the competent ministries are responsible for carrying out the tasks which are the content of the law. In this regard, the comments of the Legal and Legislative Services were also welcome. Dear Members and Members! I suggest you adopt a law on the transfer of tasks under the jurisdiction of the provinces to the second reading. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. In the framework of the parliamentary procedure, the law treated the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee to Ambassador Franz Jazbec for presentation of the report of the Committee. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u45	Thank you very much. At its 16th regular meeting, on 11.3.2008, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and acceptance. Meetings of the Committee were attended: representatives of the Government as law-makers, representatives of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia and representatives from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Committee was informed of: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the opinion of the Commission on Nationalities and the opinion of the Coastal Self-Governmental Communities of the Italian Nationality, the opinion of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the Committee of the National Self-Government and Regional Development of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the municipalities of Bohinj, Žirovnica, Ljutomer, Tolmin, Kostel, Ribnica, the Municipal Municipality of Slovenj Gradec and the Municipality of Ljubljana and the opinion of the Association of Slovenia. The Committee was also briefed on the amendments of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI and SLS, the amendments of the MEP Kristjan Janca, the amendments of the Italian and Hungarian Group of Nationalities and the amendments of the Commission for Community Nationality. In an additional explanation for the articles, the representative of the Government, Dr Ivan Žagar, initially explained the previous procedures concerning the coordination of the provincial legislation, which included the opposition party. He expressed regret at the unwillingness of the opposition parliamentary groups to participate in the consideration of the bill. He stressed that he could not agree in any way to the assessment that the proposed provincial legislation was not suitable for further consideration, as the first part of the provincial legislation package had received adequate support in Parliament months ago. Also on the part of opposition parliamentary groups. He pointed out that it was reasonable to continue to examine the provincial legislation, despite the legislative and legal service's concerns on the linkage of the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes with other proposed provincial laws - in particular the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of Landscapes, which he could not agree with in any way. With regard to the design of the proposed law, he stressed the need to amend and supplement the sectoral legislation in terms of transferring tasks from ministries to the provinces at once rather than amending 52 sectoral laws. The creation of landscapes also seeks to unify sectoral policies at the regional level. Regarding the concerns of the Legislative and Legal Service regarding the nomotechnical non-conformity of the bill, he pointed out that it was a transfer of tasks from more than 50 laws, since it was necessary to be aware that these laws were written in different periods of time, different periods, different departments. It is therefore logical that they are not prepared in a uniform way and that their diversity is reflected in the bill itself. He assessed that the proposed amendments were trying to fully follow the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. In its opening presentation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service made some general comments relating to the whole law. It drew attention to the substantive linkage of the Law on the Transfer of Orders and Competences of the Provinces and the Law, which would constitute the legal basis for the establishment of the Provinces. In this regard, it also makes sense to examine both laws in a coordinated manner. The proposed law lays down or transfers powers at the same time as real and financial property and regulates the acquisition of public servants to the provinces. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee moved on to a discussion on the articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled below. The Committee adopted all amendments other than the amendment to Article 87 of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups, the Commission for Nationality Communities to Articles 6 and 9, the Italian and Hungarian Nationalities Group, at Article 6. The Committee did not adopt the following amendments by SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 87, the Italian and Hungarian Nationalities Group, to Article 9, the Member of the Christian Janca, Article 70. With the adoption of those amendments, the following amendments have become irrelevant: Member of the Committee of the Regions, Mr Janca, at 72., 73., 74., 75., 77., 78. and 387. The Committee adopted the following amendments: Articles 87, 212 and 406.b and amendments to the amendments to Articles 9, 32, 86, 88, 288, 346 and 352. The Committee continued its consideration of the articles to which no amendments had been tabled. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee, pursuant to Article 133, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the Committee, decided on the text of the supplementary proposal of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u46	My friend Jazbec, thank you very much. Since the assembly held its 35th meeting on the first reading of the bill, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, dated 26.3. So I am putting to the debate article 406.b and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS sent groups. At the same time, I ask that, as far as the debate is concerned, the text of the amendment is exclusively mentioned. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. And we're moving on to 5. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE COURT IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. I'd like to inform you that we have two hours and 40 minutes of time available for this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Robert Marolt, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, for an introductory explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u47	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. With the proposed amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, it is possible for courts to obtain the information they need in order to establish the facts concerning the management of procedures in the official registers and public books, which are kept in computerised form. In this way, courts are allowed to proceed more efficiently, simpler and faster in individual cases. As is the case with the courts, the proposed amendments also allow a judicial expert, who has a very important and decisive impact on the decision-making process in court proceedings, to directly obtain the information they need in order to draw up an executive opinion on a specific judicial procedure. They will be able to obtain data for the production of opinions from official records and also from the private sector. This includes, in particular, the acquisition of data from various insurance companies and other participants involved in judicial proceedings. This will ensure a higher speed of judicial proceedings. Finally, the court, the individual judges, who are now required to obtain relevant information under the current system of judicial experts, will also be relieved. Of course, the forensic experts will only obtain such information on the basis of the accompanying order or decision of the court to draw up an opinion. In addition, the proposed amendment allows the parties to obtain, in order to facilitate the exercise of their rights by the court, the necessary court judgements and other decisions of the administrative authorities to which the parties refer or refer to them. It also simplifies the procedure for appointing members of the Judicial Council from among the types of Judges if a member of the Judicial Council of the types of Judges ends his term of office prematurely. At the same time, with a view to ensuring the continuity of the work of the Judicial Council, it is stipulated that a partial replacement of members of the Judicial Council shall be made every three years. This system or system in practice is in force or already known by international courts. Similarly, our constitutional court is also established in practice - we can say the same - meaning. It is further laid down that in the largest courts, which unfortunately also have the highest number of pending cases and also the highest number of judicial delays, it allows the appointment of two or even three vice-presidents of the courts with a view to more efficient management of the courts, more efficient administration of the courts, and also with a view to remedying judicial backlogs and ensuring the right to a trial within a reasonable time. This is the largest courts in Slovenia, such as the District or District Court in Ljubljana and the Higher Court in Ljubljana. They are also being re-coordinated to determine the areas of the courts with the cadastral municipalities. As a result of the fact that in the past, since the Law on Courts, several new congregations have been established or the congregations have been divided into a larger number of congregations. As a result, we should change the law on courts every time. That's why we're coordinating the area. It is said that the area of local jurisdiction of the courts in the area of the cadastral municipalities. Because that makes more sense. What is very important is also the permanent and immovable determination of the area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Drag Koren, to present the views and conclusions of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u49	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Good day to Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, the representative of the Ministry and our young visitors to the Tribunal! Good afternoon! Welcome to the temple of Slovenian democracy. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice is at its 48th emergency meeting. 3. 2008 examined the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a regular procedure. The National Assembly held a general debate on the draft law at its 36th regular session and adopted the conclusion that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. No further explanation was added by the representative of the proposed bill on the committee itself. However, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mr Božo Strle, said that the comments from their written opinion were largely taken into account by amendments to the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS coalition groups. He therefore specifically pointed out only an unheeded comment to Article 1 of the draft law, namely the proposed provision of Article 13, paragraph 5, of the law, which states: "Other judicial personnel shall examine from the point of view of a more precise definition of the judicial staff who, on the basis of their powers, may carry out the acts referred to in that provision." The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Council of Justice of 17.1.2008, which drew up comments on Articles 5, 9, 11, 12 and 21. In the debate, the members of the Committee drew attention to the Council's comments on the proposal for a law and, in this regard, asked the representative of the proposers what his relation to those comments was. The amendments of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Articles 1, 2, 12, 13 and 21 were specifically presented in the debate on individual amendments. The amendment to Article 12 was later adopted from these amendments. So, the amendment of the Liberal Democracy. All amendments to the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS coalition groups were also adopted. The other amendments of the Liberal Democracy were not accepted. The coalition parliamentary groups withdrew the amendment to Article 12, which was tabled on 11.3.2008. As its committee, it adopted the amendment to Articles 2 and 25. All the amendments adopted are included in the amended bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u50	Thank you very much. At its 36th meeting, the assembly held its first reading of the bill. Therefore, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments of 26.3.2008. We will discuss Article 2, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 5, the amendment of the Liberal Democracy and SD Group to Article 11, the amendment of the Lip Group of Ambassadors, the two amendments to Article 11, to Article 23 of the amendment of the LDS Group of Ambassadors and SD and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors to Article 26. We will discuss each amendment separately. First, I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking you to sign up. I conclude the debate envisaged. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the LDS and SD parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to discuss Article 5? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate. I am putting an amendment to Article 11 and the amendment of the Lip Group of Ambassadors in a possible debate. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] I'm opening the application procedure. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u51	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, both amendments under Article 11 are more or less editorial in nature. I must say, we have prepared them in cooperation with the judiciary in the Lipa Group. However, if I touch first the first amendment, under first paragraph 73.c of Article, which says that part of the text is deleted. In particular, that part of the text is deleted, which additionally and unnecessarily burdens the content of a specific legal norm. The fact is that it is already, in principle, or on the ground, clear that the Presidents of the courts or individual courts are competent and, at the same time, empowered to administer the judicial administration. What makes sense within the framework of this first paragraph of Article 73.c is to write down only an introduction to ensure additional security. On the basis of this brief explanation, which I believe is also clear to the representatives of the Ministry, I propose that this amendment be adopted under Article 73c or paragraph 1. Accordingly, if you allow me to touch another amendment, which relates to the fifth paragraph of Article 11, which, I will say, is more precise or determined in the content itself, who is the responsible person who is in charge and, at the same time, is solely responsible for informing the other officials and employees of the measures. For the fifth paragraph of the proposed content is not clear whether the President of the Court is that person or someone else. In view of the practice and also the warnings given by individual judges or representatives and also the Presidents of the Courts, I propose that this supplement be taken into account in the context of Article 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Secretary of State. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. We also believe that the proposed amendments make sense at the Ministry of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u54	Thank you very much. And I conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 11. In any event, however, I am putting forward Article 23 and the amendment of the LDS and SD parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I therefore put Article 26 and the amendments of the SDS Group into a possible debate. Would anyone like to discuss this article and the amendment? Nobody. And since no one wants to discuss the amendments tabled anymore, I also conclude the debate on amendments and articles. However, the amendments will be decided on in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed bill on legal fees - within the framework of the ordinary procedure. I would like to inform you that we have two hours and five minutes to discuss this. The draft law was also submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I therefore give the floor again to the Secretary of State, Mr Marolt, for the introduction of the bill. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. The proposal for the Law on Judicial Fees is based on the example of the German Law on Judicial Costs of 2004 and at the same time on the same basic principles as the Austrian and Portuguese system of judicial fees. In addition, the draft law is in line with the current procedural rules in force and with the regulation of certain other legislative proposals. For example, as was yesterday here, in the National Assembly, a general debate on the Law on Lawyers, thereby fully coordinating the proposed Law on Judicial Fees. The most important novelty of the bill is that a single fee is paid for the individual procedure, including the decision given by the court in this proceeding. This fee replaces the previous charges for the action, the response to the action, the fee for the judgment. In most cases, it must be paid at the beginning of the proceedings when the action, the application for initiation of the proceedings or the remedy is brought. For example: complaints, objections or other exceptional remedies. The taxable person to pay this fee shall be the applicant of the said applications. In doing so, it is particularly important to point out that, in the event of an early conclusion of the proceedings, such as the conclusion of a judicial settlement, a large part of the fees already paid shall be reimbursed. In particular, at the first stage two thirds shall be returned, at the second stage one half and at the third stage one third of the fee paid. The parties are therefore encouraged to close the dispute as soon as possible and consequently to shorten the proceedings. In criminal proceedings in a criminal offence prosecuted under official responsibility, and in the case of offences, fees shall be imposed instead of the averages. Further news is that the bill no longer contains a system of points. Therefore, all fees are fixed in euro. The draft law no longer provides for the maximum amounts of fees for individual procedures. It contains only a general provision that the value of the disputed item is not more than EUR 30 million and the value of the case in unfair proceedings is not more than EUR 60 million. This means that the highest fee is one in disputed procedures of €60,975 and unfair procedures of €18,536. In comparison, the previous law, or the law now in force as the highest tax in a fair procedure, provides for a tax of 20,000 points, or only 1,642 euros, to be multiplied by an appropriate factor. Taxes, as proposed by law, are on average as high in individual types of proceedings as in the case in the previous or existing law as in the current law. However, there is an increasing increase in the value of the subject matter. Therefore, these comparisons, of course, cannot be accurately analytically produced. The tariff section of the law is divided into tables. Each type of procedure has its own table. The proposal also expressly states that after payment of the court fee has been made, no evidence of payment has to be provided to the courts. Such an arrangement also means the implementation of a government measure to remove administrative barriers to the simplification of the payment of court fees. A key novelty in the section on the exemption of payment of court fees is that a party must make a written statement to the Court of Justice concerning its property, which he submits under criminal and material liability, that the data are true. However, in case of doubt as to the reality of the allegations in this declaration, the Court only obtains the relevant information. In part, the draft law regulates the section on the recovery of unpaid fees. If the customer does not pay a court fee at the time of the occurrence of such obligation, the court shall send a payment order to pay the debt fee within the specified time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u56	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Drago Koren, to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to the Members of Parliament, to the representatives of the Ministry. At its 42nd meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the Proposal for a Law on Judicial Fees submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a regular procedure. Mr Lovro Šturm, representative of the proposer, provided a supplementary explanation to the bill, stating that the applicable Law on Judicial Fees had already entered into force in 1979 and had been amended ten times by now. Since the Republic of Slovenia has become a independent State since its entry into force, it is appropriate to prepare a new system law as a rule of the new State. The proposal for a law is based on the example of German and Austrian judicial fees. It also means aligning it with existing legislation. He then gave the most important principles followed by the proposal of the law. This is the principle of a single unit fee for a level-by-step procedure, including a decision issued by a court in this proceeding. The principle under which a fee for a proceeding is paid by the applicant at the beginning of the procedure, the principle that the fee payer does not need to prove the payment of the fee, the principle of speeding up the procedure, the principle of the return of the overpaid fee on an official basis. He stated as the objectives of the new regime: to promote a more rational initiation of judicial proceedings, taking into account the principle that court fees must be established within such limits in order not to deter individuals from exercising judicial protection. Promoting faster and more up-to-date data of judicial proceedings, encouraging parties to enter into judicial proceedings and other forms of early conclusion of judicial proceedings, simplifying the payment of court fees by abolishing the obligation to prove the fee paid by the taxpayer. The achievement of these objectives, according to the proposaler, will help to reduce judicial backlogs, one of the main objectives of a number of legislative changes over the past two years. Then the minister listed the main solutions that this marriage brings. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service further said that their extensive written comments had been taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups and the amendments proposed by the Committee to the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. With regard to the resolution in article 42 of the law amending the law on enforcement and insurance, she pointed out that it meant amending the law with another law, instead of its amendment, interfering with the legal system and thereby with the principle of legal certainty and the rule of law. The members of the committee did not discuss the law, but adopted all the proposed amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. As its committee, it adopted the amendment to the amendment to Articles 34 and 35. All the amendments adopted are included in the amended bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u58	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Secretary of State with co-workers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. We support the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group because we believe that it is high time to prepare a new system-wide, more modern law on judicial fees, and that the law in force since 1979 has been revised 10 times. We also see this law as a function of speeding up, shortening and more efficient judicial proceedings and also as a need to comply with our other existing legislation. We therefore support the principles and objectives set out by the proposer in the drafting of the new Law on Judicial Fees and, of course, also the design innovations that are mainly found in the tariff section of the bill. The regulation of fees will be much more transparent and easier to use, as the bill no longer sets out with points but in amounts. We will support all amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and the parent committee, which also take into account most of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. Recipes to shorten trials for a reasonable period of time - as we know so far - have not been successful in us and it is right to try to do so with laws such as those before us to have an impact on the acceleration of proceedings, so in our view it is permissible to follow the example of finding solutions through comparable systems of European countries. We believe that the proceedings will be initiated more carefully if a single fee for the procedure is fixed at each stage, including a decision issued by the court in this proceeding and no more specific fees for applications and special fees for judicial decisions. For these reasons, which, in our view, means a more transparent and simpler way of charging users, we will support the law in the SLS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Let me say the introduction that the position of the DeSUS Group is favourable to the adoption of this law, that this is a law that has not been very strong, but that in everyday life it improves the procedures and actions that make life easier. In everyday life, though, people are not most impressed when faced with administration or bureaucracy, as they say, especially when it comes to congregational, national, or possibly even judicial matters. However, it is also an integral part of our lives and the fees are a certain compensation for the work done or for the costs of the services provided by these authorities. That this is unattractive for the population, it's probably not surprising. It is not surprising, however, that it was not attractive for political parties, because there was no response to this proposal, probably because the law itself does not have any political or client charge to which something could be hung during this pre-election period. However, what has been said today is that the law is relatively old, that it is right to replace it, that it has been amended many times. And maybe even for this marriage we could repeat what Oscar Wilde wrote about fashion, that something so ugly that every six months it is necessary to change it. This is what happens to this law, not every six months, but every two years. With regard to the comments, only the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service should be mentioned and these were very extensive. And while the Legislative and Legal Service has agreed that the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups are correcting weaknesses, perhaps there is no need to say that they would be more pleased if the law were so prepared that the comments and later amendments would be significantly less. Otherwise, the bill is based, as the proposaler says, on the following two ambitions. For the first time, this is the law at the "Lukenda" job, if you don't mind. It is an attempt to further reduce judicial backlogs and it is a matter of coordinating with many others in life very important laws, if we mention the Law on Enforcement and Insurance or the Law on Financial Transactions, i.e. bankruptcys and other procedures concerning economic operators when they are in an insolvent or insolvent situation. Radical changes, as we say, are not, but there are many minor changes that achieve some of the desired goals. Therefore, it is an attempt to reduce the number of procedures, including by a new tariff which should not be prevented from being applied for. It is a matter of trying to encourage the parties to complete as many procedures as possible on an out-of-court basis or to conclude prematurely. It is a matter of introducing, in certain cases, a requirement for payment of a fee in advance, so that it does not follow so many recoverys, defaults and that certain fees are paid, in particular in those procedures which are carried out on official duty, after the judgment has been delivered or when it is legally binding. If this is about speeding up procedures, and if, as the bill's proposal says, it is also neutral or better said for positive financial effects for the budget, and if cumulatively, we can say that there are fewer procedures, fewer judicial backlogs, better financial consequences for the state budget and for a fairer tariff, as it decreases and increases higher, then there are sufficient reasons for the DeSUS Group to be able to support this proposal, which the Government has drawn up.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u62	Thank you very much. My colleague, Happy Friend, will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The assessment and opinion of the Slovenian National Party is that it is essentially a good law and we support it. The law in force today was written in 1979 and has been revised 10 times so far and the adoption of this new law will also change the system's regulation of court fees. Promoting a more rational launch of judicial proceedings is the basic objective followed by the law, and it is also, of course, encouraging faster and more ongoing judicial proceedings, encouraging parties to conclude out-of-court settlements, which is essentially a positive element in the fact that waiting types in the courts are reduced and, of course, simplifying the payment of court fees, which is also now regulated by this law. The achievement of these objectives would be an essential positive element and would also help to reduce judicial backlogs, which is one of the basic objectives and also the basic problem of the judiciary. If we follow this problem, we can see that many have been waiting for their right for more than a decade. The principle of a single, uniform fee for a particular procedure is certainly also fair somewhere, because we know that so far it has been pointed out, from now on it will be paid in euros and also the principle of the return of overpaid fees covers the main solution of this law. As far as the Slovenian National Party is concerned, it is worth noting that we have always been clear critics, and we have loudly pointed out that the courts - for the first time, are working too slowly in our opinion that judges, even in this place, are called permanent mandates, and that it is also a result of nonchalantness, sometimes knowingly concealing the facts or simply putting the judicial files under the table that we have witnessed in the past. And such corrections that we have today in the National Assembly with judicial proceedings are welcome. One of these is the one we welcome and, as has already been said, in the Slovenian National Party, we will also support this law on judicial fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Lipa Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that again. I have, on behalf of the Lip Group of Members, a proposal for a law that we are considering today, certain concerns, concerns that also extend to the content of work or to judicial backlogs in our case law. What I think is controversial is that backlogs are being reduced or that we are going into the system to fight backlogs at the expense of making access to the courts more difficult. At the very least, it is possible to conclude on the basis of the explanations that we have already witnessed today by the Ministry's representative. Finally, even in the very explanation of the law between the financial consequences of the bill's proposal to the state budget, it is stated that some new taxes are being laid down under the proposed law, which will further increase the inflow to the state budget. In other words, this means that taxes are being raised or auctioned, and that people who cannot handle this financial burden will simply say no, and they will not choose to do so if you want to, the protection of legality. In the Lipa Group, we are of the view that, while it is necessary, yes, of course, because of complications, because of judicial proceedings, because of so many and so many outstanding cases within our country, which undoubtedly also raise disputes before the European Court of Human Rights, because this is a violation of an important constitutional principle, this is a trial within a reasonable time period that more rational use of judicial proceedings is needed, but not at the expense of restricting accessibility, as has already been said, for those who do not have sufficient financial resources. Last but not least, yesterday in the National Assembly we discussed the proposal for a law on legal tariffs. There we spoke on the big mouth about the importance of reducing legal tariffs because it would make it easier for people to access or serve lawyers or, more recently, legal proceedings. Today, as has already been said, we are raising tariffs in another area. It's like that story about the root and the stick. When you put something in one area, you get hit by a stick on the other side of your pocket. I would like to make another point, as set out in Article 23, in the framework of today's proposal for a law. These are legal maintenance disputes. You know, the practice in our country has shown that people who decide on such procedures are said to recover their livelihoods, placed before a great dilemma, and this dilemma is called more than 300 euros. I'll take a new one. But these women, usually women from the single parent family, who face the greatest poverty, often fail to do so, and therefore also rent credits, because because of the very low censorship they are not entitled to free legal aid or, in other words, if the system of disposal of subsistence in our country were to function as it should be, it would not be a problem. But like I said. That area remains open, remains intact, and today we raise court fees. In this context, I would like to draw attention to another weakness which also leads to long-term cases and too long-term judicial backlogs. This is a lack of specialised courts. I am specifically talking about family courts. There are none in our country. The section that we have in the District Court in Ljubljana - the Family Department - is also facing a lack of expertise between the staff and, finally, the judges themselves point to this. This is the area that should be prioritized. But not to increase court fees in order to fill the state budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. Respectable. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a bill on judicial fees. They supported the fact that the old law, which has been in force for 29 years, is almost 30 years, although it has been amended several times, simply does not follow all the changes in this area. That is why we need one law that will follow modern guidelines in the field of judicial fees. We are also convinced that the amendment of the existing law is simply not possible to meet all these new circumstances, and therefore we support that this is actually a completely new law. To be rational in spending time, I will not repeat all the solutions offered by this law, but I would point out two or three. The most important thing is that a one-off fee is paid at an individual stage of the procedure. I think it's one of the most important improvements. Secondly, I would point out that the law does not increase, on average, judicial fees. On average, the charges will remain the same. What is important is that these fees will somehow be distributed more fairly according to the value of the case in a fair trial. Thus, for example, in the five lowest values in the fair procedure, the tax will on average be reduced by 30%, the lowest will be even 50% lower than so far. Some fees for lower value items in legacy proceedings will on average be 17% lower than in the applicable law. So I think it is true that there is an improvement in this area and greater justice, but we cannot agree in any way that we will additionally fill the budget with these fees. Perhaps he would also mention that the law also follows the general principle of this government, namely that it tries to overcome administrative obstacles as much as possible with new legislation. For example, if a court fee has been paid with an appropriate reference number, such a person is no longer obliged to provide the court with any evidence of payment or to return the overpaid fee on official duty. These may be minor changes, but all of this only contributes to making this matter easier and shorter for the user in these court proceedings. To conclude, in our view, it is a modern law that follows the general principle of removing administrative barriers, harmonisation with other laws and is also in the function of remedying judicial backlogs. That is why we will support him in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Comrade Aleš Gulic. [[He's not here.]] Ms Majda Zupan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-known, distinguished Vice President, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said, so far, the amended Law on Judicial Fees, which has been in force since 1979, has also been created by the Republic of Slovenia as a stand-alone state, calling for amendments and additions, which would also mean aligning such legislation with existing legislation, both in the field of judicial procedure, administrative dispute, court registry, in the area of financial transactions, in insolvency proceedings and forcible termination in the field of enforcement and insurance, and in the land book. The amendments and additions are so extensive that it is more prudent to adopt a new law, which is also supposed to be the fastest and most effective implementation of the joint state project, the abolition of judicial backlogs, which is also the "Lundand Project". Therefore, it constitutes an important novelty of the law, inter alia, a one-off fee for the individual stage procedure, which means a reduction in the number of payment and pre-payment procedures paid, thereby speeding up procedures and encouraging a more rational initiation of procedures. The proposal for a new law follows modern guidelines on court fees and is difficult to compare with the current system. The comparison can only be made at the level of wages which remain on average the same high, and in some cases they decrease in the higher values of the objects of the process where they grow degressively and the levels of the fixed fees remain unchanged. However, the method of payment of court fees has been changed, and it is particularly important that the customer no longer has to prove it after payment has been made. There has also been a change in the procedure for the enforcement of tax exemptions, the procedure for recovery of unpaid fees and the procedure for reimbursement of fees. The bill allows for a court fee to be paid by electronic means or other applicable means of payment. Among other things, there is a single single fee for the individual stage procedure which the applicant will have to pay at the time of the application or the action for the initiation of the procedure or the remedy. Taxes are also laid down in the criminal procedure for a criminal offence which is prosecuted on an official basis and in an offence procedure. However, there is no longer a system of points, but the fees are set in euros. Alternatively, a different system for calculating court fees is laid down, using the coefficients. It must be acknowledged, however, that in its opinion on the basic text, the Legislative and Legal Service has had quite a few comments, which have also been taken into account through a number of amendments to the Committee. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a new law on judicial fees because we believe that, with the objectives that the law takes into account, it is a good legal basis to help reduce judicial backlogs, which is one of the main objectives of a number of legislative changes over the past two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u70	Thank you very much. We are finished with the presentation of the views of the groups. Before we go to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, allow me to welcome the visitors to the Trbovlje Elementary School. Welcome. So, as we say, we are going to discuss the article and the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 26. 3 I am putting to the debate Article 34 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups of Members. [[..]] Anybody want to talk? Nobody, then I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. And we're moving on to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE EXPLOSIVES AND PYROtechnic PRODUCTS LAW, IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. I inform you that we have two hours and forty minutes for this item. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mag. Mr Zinrajhu, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Interior, for an introductory explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Members, Members, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. The scope of explosives and pyrotechnic articles is currently governed by the 2002 Explosives Act. This law is already in line with the Directive of the European Union governing the placing on the market of explosives for civil use. In 2007, a Directive of the European Union on the placing of pyrotechnic articles on the market was adopted. The transposition of this Directive into the Slovenian legal order was not only possible through amendments and additions to this existing law, but it was necessary to prepare a new law on explosive and pyrotechnic articles applying the provisions of these two Directives. In the field of explosives, the proposal for a law does not differ significantly from the law now in force. The new conduct of legal persons and undertakings is determined when explosives need to be destroyed. Since it is an activity that may be hazardous to human life, health and environmental protection, the Government has been given the power to specify in more detail the safety and other measures to be taken in the course of destruction. In the case of pyrotechnics, the draft law mainly transposes those provisions of Directives of the European Union which, in view of the need to improve general protection and consumer safety, also require effective control and, in the event of a breach, of course, also appropriate penalties. The age limits for the sale of pyrotechnic articles to natural persons are higher than those laid down in the Directive. The proposal restricts the sale of category 1 fireworks to fourteen years. The directive is more liberal, it takes 12 years. So this is where we set the sharper criteria. Category 2 defines the same age as the Directive, which is to say 16 years. More stringent than in the Directive is the restriction on category 3 fireworks since only a legal person and an entrepreneur authorised to trade pyrotechnic articles can buy and use them. The exception is set for two products which, according to our assessment, are the safest. These are batteries, categories 3 to 1000 g net mass of explosive and fountains of category 3, up to 759 g net mass of explosive substances. These products will be available for purchase, possession and use by individuals at least eighteen years of age. The novelty is a complete ban on the sale and use of category 2 and category 3 fireworks, the main effect of which is pok. However, the sale and use of such products has so far been limited. In view of the possibility of effective additional restrictions on the sale of pyrotechnics, the proposal empowers the Government to prohibit or restrict the purchase of property, use, introduction and import of certain types of explosives, of course in cases of human security and property insecurity and of course the area of public policy. In order to fully implement the law or transpose the Directives, it will be necessary to adopt at least three other sub-legislative acts within six months of the entry into force of the law, in addition to the two government provisions already mentioned. Respected Members and Members, by doing so and by other requirements of the law relating to the production and transport of explosives and pyrotechnic articles and their transfer, import, export, transit, as well as to the rules of control exercised by the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Home Affairs, the police, the competent customs service and the market inspectorate, and the relevant sanctions for infringements will also ensure the purpose of the law and the directives. This is the protection of life and human health, the protection of property, the protection of the environment and public order on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the unhindered movement of goods and services in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u72	Thank you very much. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law was also regarded by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Koren, to present the report or position of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u73	Have a good day again for everyone in this hall! At its 42nd regular meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft law on explosive and pyrotechnic articles submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly on a regular basis. In its supplementary explanation, the representative said that a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the placing of pyrotechnic articles on the market had been adopted in 2007. The transposition of this Directive cannot only be carried out by supplementing the existing Explosives Act and a new law has to be drawn up, among other things. The proposal for a law in accordance with the Directive also regulates the transfer of ammunition between the Member States of the European Union, and particular arrangements are made for the purchase of parts of ammunition for certain natural persons. The main solutions and innovations presented by the law can be divided into two areas: explosives and pyrotechnics. In the field of explosives, the basic novelty is that the law distinguishes the concept of production and transport with explosives, including trade, use, handling, storage, preparation of explosives at the site and destruction of explosives. Both production and marketing authorisation is required. In the field of pyrotechnics, the draft law mainly transposes those provisions of the Directive which, in view of the need to improve general protection and consumer safety, also require effective control and, in the case of infringements, appropriate punishment. In the case of age restrictions on the purchase of pyrotechnic articles, the proposal introduces stricter criteria than laid down in the Directive itself. In its opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the Legislative and Legal Service had first proposed certain more appropriate definitions or improvements. From a substantive point of view, it highlighted some exclusionary definitions that could lead to internal inconsistencies in the law, in particular with regard to the transport of explosives and to insufficiently clear provisions which do not show a distinction between individual traffic regulations, in particular in the definition of explosives and pyrotechnic articles. Those shortcomings shall be corrected by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The Committee also took note of the Commission's opinion on the State Council's regulation, which supported the proposal for a law. In the debate on individual amendments, the amendment of the Ambassador of the Cvetka Zalokar Orazam was presented to Article 24 of the bill, under which all pyrotechnic articles of categories 1, 2 and P1 should also have warnings on the danger of use on the packaging, with the amendment proposing the contents of this warning. In relation to this amendment, the representative of the applicant explained that the proposal for a law merely provides in a framework for the labelling of the pyrotechnic article, so that it must contain the label and that it must be at a specific location. However, a more detailed content and scope of the indication on the pyrotechnic article will be determined by the Minister with the Regulation. He pointed out that pyrotechnic products have different effects and therefore such general warnings in the law would not be appropriate. The following amendments were adopted by the Committee: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. However, he did not accept the amendment of the Ambassador of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem. As its committee, it adopted the amendment to Article 37. All the amendments adopted are included in the amended bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u74	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Zares Group. [[It won't, it won't.]] Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of Mr DeSUS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Members of the DeSUS will be supported by the Explosives and Pyrotechnic Products Act. We will support it because we believe that this area needs a more recent regulation that is in line with the requirements of the European Union, which will meet all the necessary safety criteria for safe handling of these dangerous products that still cause a lot of bodily harm. On this basic objective of improving general consumer protection, we have doubts in the parliamentary group regarding the age criterion, which, under the law in force, has been reduced in the sense that the condition of the age achieved is reduced by one year for the sale and use of pyrotechnic articles to minors of the 1st and 2nd categories. For most accidents that occur during major holidays, such as the transition to the new year, the big night, and the holiday work, are the most frequently damaged children. Although the proposal for a law in this part is more restrictive than the directive, we believe that it would be more responsible to maintain the prescribed age of 15 years following the regulation in force and that it does not allow the use of persons under the age of 15 years if they are not accompanied by parents or guardians. However, given that the proposal has so decided and will fall into the middle class in terms of comparison with the other Member States of the European Union, the proposed solution is also acceptable to us, because we believe that the level of labelling in the real use of these hazardous substances, in terms of preventing possible bodily harm, is appropriate for us. It is also true that even more restrictive restrictions will not directly help prevent future disasters from happening. One of the objectives of the law following the provisions of the Directive is to ensure the free movement of explosives and pyrotechnics between Member States. It is important that, before these products are launched on the market, all the necessary tests are carried out to confirm safety for further consumer and economic use. All safety, technical requirements for individual types of explosives and pyrotechnic articles will have to meet the requirements of compliance. Only a properly certified product can be supplied to the European market area, which means only such a product can be offered on the Slovenian market. Otherwise, the new law is essentially an upgrade in force under the European Directive, and it is significantly more transparent, appropriate and transferable to a number of improvements in relation to the existing arrangements with regard to the introduction of a new concept, the definition of common or comprehensive arrangements for both types of funds, faster and more efficient administrative procedures with regard to the acquisition of different licences, a more appropriate and transparent division of powers with regard to the supervision of the implementation of legal provisions and a more appropriate amount of fines for the infringements identified. As has already been announced in the introduction, we will also support the proposal of the law in its complementary form in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u77	Good afternoon! Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We will support the proposed law on explosive and pyrotechnic articles in the Slovenian National Party. The law improves many things and also takes account of European directives, although it has to be said that the European directives are not exactly the best and it would make sense to consider certain articles. But I do have a few concerns. Above all, the buying time, the possibility of purchasing pyrotechnics is 19 to 31. 12. and the possibility of use from 26. 12 to 2. 1. I think the deadline is too short, because at this time the Orthodox Christmas is not taken into account 7. 1. and Orthodox New Year, 13.1., when a huge amount of pyrotechnic means is used in Slovenia. That is to say, who will control and who will ban the use of pyrotechnic means at that time, because the law can happen because of this, exactly, before the Constitutional Court and will require a change. I think this would make sense in the next hearing by the government to correct. Now, I think it's a criminal "strengthening" the power of pyrotechnic means. Just in these cases, when immature and ignorant minors tried to "encourage" pyrotechnic means and their operation, accidents occurred. Not by the pyrotechnic means themselves in the basic form, in the form they were purchased, but by trying to "encourage", for example, the power of the explosion, the volume of the explosion, for example, they also tried to "encourage" the bang itself or the brilliance of the explosion. And there have been accidents here, so it's only right to run into someone who's trying to make it a crime. However, I think it would make sense to add another article or indent in the law to an article that would talk about unexploded killings of mines, so-called NUMS, because there is still a lot of them in Slovenia. This law does not define the matter, but we also have certain accidents in this area that have already taken place and are likely to continue. The Coast Guard still has a lot of this old ammunition from World War I. This may require some kind of sub-law under this law, so as not to overstep the scope of this law under various supplements. It would also make sense to consider a submarital act that would deal with old ammunition. In fact, the old ammunition is not only a dangerous matter, as some have shown, but it is also a largely historical object and we should also look at it a little bit more, but not that everything about weapons needs to be seized and destroyed according to the old police method. These are old opinions from a former country where weapons have already been privileged only, and new views on everything are significantly different. Foreign museums, both police and military, are full of old ammunition. And it's not like it's destroyed, but ammunition that's properly stored and stored, like a museum facility, and in that case there's nothing dangerous. Likewise, various NUMS could be worked out to this extent in order to become, I would say, historical, exhibition, museum exhibits. So much for our side. But there's another question that hasn't been processed either. What happens if, for example, Mr Jankovic wants to throw fireworks on Ljubljana's liberation holiday? Will you lock him up, or will you allow him fireworks according to which article? I'd like to know which article. If that's not the case, please take care of it. In general - we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u79	Respectable present. In the context of the Lip Group, we truly expected a better quality, and above all a better and more appropriate law. Despite the fact that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly give Members the opportunity to actively co-operate with the content of the law, i.e. with the amendments, it is not possible to address everything in the form of amendments. Therefore, from this place, for the first time - I inform you that we have tabled in the context of the Lip Group, and today we will also consider, amendments, that is to say, the proposed changes to those matters already defined in the framework of the law are unfortunately bad. Otherwise, it is not possible to supplement the content of the law itself. But basically, I would like to point out, at least for the Group of Members, some of the incomprehensible content contained in the title of this Act. First: lowering the age limit for purchase of pyrotechnic articles under this Act. We personally or in the context of the Lipa Group feel it is incomprehensible that, for the first time - the police, the second time - health personnel, institutions, the third time - and not least the whole company, are alerted during the period of use of pyrotechnics, each year more strongly, about the danger, the number of accidents, the withdrawals of limbs, despite the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is even lowering the age limit for both the area of purchase and the scope of use of pyrotechnic products. And let me first touch the purchase and lowering of the age line. So, a moment substantively means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that younger children, as they have already had the right to purchase pyrotechnic products, will have the opportunity to purchase these. We think it's totally unacceptable that this is happening and legal today and here. And another anomaly of the law. We hope that only an anomaly and that it is not intended is, of course, the use of pyrotechnic things, namely lowering the age limit for users of these things. So it seems incomprehensible to us that, on the one hand, the police are advising citizens, citizens, parents and, on the other hand, children themselves before the holidays not to use, or the extreme care and constant presence of one parent or adult. On the other hand, at the Ministry, this same ministry under the law also reduces the age limit for the use of pyrotechnic articles. In the context of the Lip Group, in addition to the above-mentioned items, we miss the actual chapter on animal protection during the period of inflation of the use of pyrotechnics. During yesterday's debate on the Penal Code, we saw that, unfortunately, animal care has become the last concern within Slovenia. So in the area of life-threatening punishments for the torture of animals, where the sentence is only three months at risk, which we highlighted yesterday as some kind of disaster. Therefore, we expected that at least sectoral laws that could actually affect the protection of animals in this area would define this content and try to move forward. Therefore, from this city criticises the proposed law, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that it has not been identified on this issue. As far as the amendments themselves are concerned, the proposed amendments offered to you for admission to the National Assembly, i.e. to supplement that law, touch for the first time the age limits for purchase and for the second time, the age limits for the use of pyrotechnic articles. From this address, in particular in order to protect children and users of pyrotechnics, I ask you from this city to support all the amendments we have tabled in the context of the Lipa Group. Above all, following the fact that we will not be witnessing strikes in the beginning of the new year, or official statistics on torn fingers and other human works due to negligence or unhappiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u81	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Respectable. Although the existing law governing this area refers to explosive and pyrotechnic products, it is not old that the law no longer follows the needs of today, that it is no longer appropriate and that this area needs to be regulated. Since such changes are needed, of course, there is no other option than to deal with a completely new law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the basic solutions to this proposal of a law that regulates the area of explosives and pyrotechnics in a comprehensive manner, which transposes the European Union directives into our regime, which, of course, ensure the free movement of explosives and pyrotechnics and, of course, also improves consumer protection, harmonises safety requirements, lays down the same general conditions for carrying out traffic for all types of explosives and pyrotechnics and, finally, clearly define the powers of inspection and police. We also support the solution that, due to the possibility of effective additional restrictions on the sale of pyrotechnics, a special mandate has been given to the Government which can prevent or restrict the purchase, possession, use, introduction and import of certain types of explosives or pyrotechnic articles which, due to their composition or effect, pose a great risk to the life, health, property and danger of humans and to the protection of the environment or public order. In particular, we welcome changes in pyrotechnics or pyrotechnics. This is the closest thing we have in our daily life, and if we remember that in certain periods of the year, the government almost or if there is the impression that the government in Slovenia does not know war or the state of emergency, it is clear that there is also a need to limit certain things in this area, particularly with regard to effective control brought by this law and also appropriate penalties for those who violate it. We also welcome the restriction or ban on the use of those pyrotechnic articles that cause deterioration. These are products that are most disturbing to peace, public order and peace, not just to humans and animals. Some are very difficult to tolerate, it is right to make certain selections here, so that, of course, not the full use of pyrotechnics is prohibited, but those who are most disruptive, but of course, clearly yes. So we agree with this bill in our parliamentary group and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a law on explosive and pyrotechnic articles, as well as the amendments tabled for today's debate. As early as 2005, when we were supplementing the law now in force in connection with the amendments to the Act on Offences, a unified view emerged in the debate that this area should be regulated by a completely new law. In 2007 a directive was also adopted in the European Parliament and the Council, which in some ways made it easier for us to work and the basic purpose of: to create a comprehensive and scaled legislative framework for the transport of pyrotechnic articles within the territory of the European Union. In addition to some other technical regulations, this Directive is an important chapter, which has also been transposed into the draft law, which regulates age and other restrictions on the sale of pyrotechnic articles to consumers, requiring that in our legislation for infringements we prescribe effective penalties and, lastly, that criminal sanctions should also be passed on to the Slovenian legal order. In short, it is a law that will fully regulate the area of both explosives and pyrotechnic articles from the development of trade production to their application in the future. Of course, such a beautifully written law will not have its validity and effectiveness if it does not apply in practice and waits here after the adoption of the law itself, first of all, for the Government and the departmental ministry to take the responsibility to adopt, as soon as possible, sub-legislative acts which will clearly and accurately prescribe its implementation. This will not be defined in the law itself. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are particularly reminded of the police and inspection supervision of legal and sub-legal provisions, which will have to be far more effective than it has been before. Without strict control over, for example, Articles 33, 34 and 35 of the Act, which define the safety aspect of the use of pyrotechnic articles from the age limit to transport, imports and similar explosive and pyrotechnic articles and effective sanctions imposed on violators, we will not be able to assess whether the implementation of this Act is good, effective or not. Given that the most comments on the use of pyrotechnic means in major cities will be important to control, control and sanction infringements that do not take into account restrictions or prohibitions in buildings, in all closed areas near hospitals, transport facilities for passenger transport and on the surfaces where public meetings and public events are taking place. And here they bear the greatest responsibility of the inspection service, the police and, of course, the new one, which, given the current state and efficiency, will have to strengthen control in this area and show better results. Also because, according to the directive, we will have to inform the European Commission every year of all the findings of the checks carried out. In short, the directive and the provisions of the law are quite clear. In view of the need to improve general protection and consumer safety, they require effective control and, in the event of infringements, appropriate and effective penalties. In short, in the Group of Social Democrats, we expect the law to be brought to life as soon as possible and that the current, not too satisfactory situation, will be settled in the best interests of the people, consumers whose injuries are, in most cases, collateral damage to the use of pyrotechnics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good day this time on behalf of New Slovenia! The use of pyrotechnic means reaches its peak in the pre-new period, and that is where the most accidents occur. Unprofessionally manufactured products and improper use each year are subject to their tax in the form of serious bodily injury, major property damage. Tragic cases, however, can also end with death. And not only that, we need to see here too, I will say what, the traumas especially older people and children, but also, finally, the animals that actually suffer a lot at these terrible strokes. For the above reasons, the latest amendment to the 2005 Explosives Act, which established stricter inspection controls, inspection measures and new fines for offences committed, was also made. A list of explosives which may be on the market has also been established and the list has been published in the Official Journal and is so publicly available. The Explosives and pyrotechnics Act, which we are considering today, is fully regulated by the field of explosives and pyrotechnics, is said to be their whole process, from production to sale and to use. One of the main objectives of the bill is the transfer of the legal order of the European Union and the modern requirements and criteria for the education, competence and responsibility of all those who work in any way with explosives and pyrotechnic means. In view of the free movement of goods in force in all Member States of the European Union, general consumer and professional protection needs to be improved. Manufacturers must carry out a series of tests for products before they are placed on the market that satisfy all the protection criteria. Each new product must be sent for testing to an independent laboratory which must comply with the requirements of the Directive or specific standards. After the conformity assessment procedure, the manufacturer shall obtain a certificate of conformity for his product and may mark it with the CE marking. This certificate may be used to place pyrotechnic products on the market of any Member State of the European Union. In the New Slovenia Group, we find important provisions to ensure the control of pyrotechnic articles and explosives. Without effective enforcement control, the law is just a dead letter on paper, as we have repeatedly stressed in the parliamentary group. As an example, I should point out the possibility for police officers to seize explosives or pyrotechnic articles without a decision in certain cases, which is of the utmost importance in order to prevent serious or serious consequences. In New Slovenia, however, we do not agree that the time of use of pyrotechnic articles would be extended. We know how disruptive the use of these tools can be. If I remember only Christmas or midnight, when it was actually not possible to perform a religious ritual because of the excessive and unworthy use of these products. We will be happy to support the law in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u87	Dear President, Secretary of State with co-workers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Most people still consider explosives and pyrotechnic products, despite all the dangers they may pose, to be something that does not require particularly great care. We often face a variety of accidents and resulting injuries caused by these products. There are also increasing numbers of juvenile victims who buy and use dangerous pyrotechnic products without supervision. There are too many so - called accidental victims who do not buy these products at all, but because of the unwiseness of the people around them, they suffer injury. We believe that it is essential that this issue is also regulated by law and that it is thus trying to reduce the risks mentioned. A Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the placing on the market of pyrotechnic articles was also adopted in 2007. The transposition of this Directive cannot only be carried out by supplementing the existing Explosives Act and therefore a new law is needed to regulate the field of explosives and pyrotechnic articles. The basic objective of the bill is to harmonise the rules on explosive and pyrotechnic articles, i.e. the comprehensive regulation of these areas. From development and planning, to the production of trade in explosives and pyrotechnic articles, their use, storage and import or export. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that due to the specificity and danger of these substances we need a transparent law to regulate everything. As regards the free movement of explosives and pyrotechnic articles within the European Union, we welcome the system of proof of the quality of our own products. Thus, any product with a certificate of conformity may appear anywhere on the European market. To this end, a prior notification of products to the Ministry of the Interior is provided for in order to establish compliance with these conditions. Such a uniform quality assurance system also provides a degree of security, as it concerns production, trade in the products mentioned above, storage, and not only the use of these. The use of these substances is among the most problematic, as it poses the greatest risk to users and to random users. In our Group of Members, we believe that particular attention should be paid to the precise phase of the use of explosives and pyrotechnic articles, including through the possibility of accessing only these. This is where the competent inspection services come in, which can contribute to security through the penal system. Of course, it is also important to store only, since proper storage of hazardous substances, like misuse, can cause accidents that are fatal to humans and can also have a negative impact on the environment. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the bill is well regulated by the above-mentioned emphasis and will contribute to the safer distribution and consumption of explosives and pyrotechnic articles. It is precisely because of all the unnecessary accidents that are taking place throughout the process, from development to use, and they are due to inadequate supervision that we believe that we need a set of rules that will regulate this area and contribute to greater security. That is why we will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u88	Thank you. We have completed the presentation of the views of the members of the groups and are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled, of 26. 3. 2008 First, I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the two amendments to this Article. The first was submitted by the Zares Group, the second Lip. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members, we really believe and support that the use of pyrotechnic means should be limited as much as possible. Personally, I do not think that there would be any harm to the use of pyrotechnics even if the use of pyrotechnics were prohibited. I don't know who would mourn, because these funds cause a lot of problems, a lot of problems, both to those who use them in the form of bodily harm, as well as negative impacts on other people, on the elderly, on the sick, on animals and also on the environment. In short, there is also material damage, and above all, it seems to me that the joy that I think is actually the expression of some consumption in this sense, that such joy that goes on to dig other people, that causes trouble to those who use them, that upsets other people, and that it is dangerous, in fact, that such joy is of little value and that it expresses in some way even egoism to those who think that they can only be happy at the holidays. Of course, I think society acts in a kind of double-faced way. On the one hand, in those days, we see a number of contributions on television, articles and the like that talk about a whole series of negative issues, and then, of course, we also sell these products cheerfully, and, I will probably say, the country also collects from this one nice share of taxes, which is probably not negligible, and it seems to me that nowhere does it say that we have to follow strictly the directives of the European Union. We could limit this matter more than is limited by directives of the European Union, especially since this law will introduce lower rates for purchasing options, so they will be able to buy products from children and minors much earlier than before, which I do not think is good, and that the government here could show more courage and there were no problems and problems if they were perhaps even more restrictive in this regard. We have tabled an amendment that we want to make on pyrotechnic products, I will publish and mark the information on the risk of their use, in short, that on these products it would say that the use of these products, to cause bodily harm and material damage, to cause and disturb others, to disturb animals and to pollute the environment. On the board, this amendment has been rejected by the Minister in his own legal acts, and I must say that I see no reason why this matter should not be settled by law. This is how we arranged it for cigarettes, where, in fact, the legal matter is an obligation, what should be written on every pack of cigarettes, and I think that cigarettes are only a negative influence, especially when we are not smoking in the interior, on the smoker himself. This is certainly a negative impact on a whole range of people. I don't know if we all want to spend the holidays in that noise asylum at the time, and if we're all very pleased because it's one imposed social model of the way we celebrate. And sooner or later, I think that this sample could also change and therefore there would be no great harm, except for which euro less tax collected. But we'd have a lot of health savings. Then there are dozens of accidents at these festivals, and there would be more happy people. I have to say that when we thought about it in the local community, we have always had very serious dilemmas, and when I listened to older people, how they accept it with bitterness or whether it is sick, I must say that I would certainly not agree today that this is the way and pattern of celebration that I will say from day to day more raped in some way into our society. Now there is, almost no small congregation that would not organize these fireworks at the holidays of the new year and the municipal holidays, and we blow up huge amounts of money that go empty, and here it seems to me that this pattern should be that something is wrong with that mayor or the mayor who is not doing this, that this pattern should simply start to change right in this room. Here comes a sort of opinion, and it seems to me that this was an opportunity, this law that we have before us, which is such that it has completely begun to regulate this whole area, that we have had the opportunity to go more against restriction or even restrictive matters here, and to show in some way a more modern mindset, a much more modern mind, in my opinion, rather than the one that I am going to say, is causing this euphoria. We talk a lot about poverty at the holidays, and on the other hand, when a person sees how much of this money gets thrown into the void at the holidays, into the air, in a second of a bang that may cause trouble to someone, he thinks about what and what values actually control and rule in a society where we are looking for a way to relax, to rejoice. I personally think that this is also one of the reasons why aggression and violence also receive some domestic and civil rights. This is also violence, which is, in some ways, limited. This is violence against nature, against animals, and against other people. And here, in my opinion, we're too liberal, too much of a way of thinking that it would cause some major shocks, but I think we could be acting really significantly different here. That is why we believe that this amendment needs to be made, if we have failed to achieve another, to write down what these funds do to pyrotechnic products, and we believe that we do not trust them that this will happen. We are not sure that this will really see the light of the world in a short time and that it will see the light of the world to the extent that we have written here, how much it must cover this and that and so on. Here I also have poor experience in the field of food, where certain matters with the smallest type of letters, which is possible, are recorded that no one would notice these matters. However, if the amendment is to be rejected, I hope that the Minister will in fact adopt the maximum restrictive provision that will be made on pyrotechnic articles with enough capital letters, and that we will not be doubling again what is on cigarettes, which is, for example, on the other hand, on these products, where I do not actually see a lot of significant differences, and we have written this in law. We also give the message that there may be worse things, but this is only a little bit of a joke for a game, and we may also be a little bit double-faced in this way, that we do not agree that we also put this story in marriage matter in terms of restriction or warning on packaging. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, I will follow the rules of procedure and I will try to discuss the amendment to Article 24. I understand, however, the colleague who spoke before me because she missed the presentation of the Group's position and had a bit of a stretch of business. So if we are talking about this amendment to Article 24, we need to know that we have these explosive and pyrotechnic means, or products of different kinds and different categories. It is only generally stated in the law that these products must be labelled where this marking should be located. However, the details of the labelling itself cannot be resolved in any other way than in a sub-legislative act to be issued by the Minister, which also allows him to do so in paragraph 50. For example, we can say that most of the products in category one cannot cause physical harm, nor are they dangerous to cause material damage, and we simply cannot put them all in one basket. In addition, some technical provisions do not make sense to specify in detail in the law itself, so we will not support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u92	Thank you. I can still see the deadlines, so I am reopening applications for debate on Article 24 and both amendments to this Article. Mrs. Potrata, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. Well, I'm sure I'll support the amendment, because I think, whether it's less dangerous, such as Bengali lighters, lifting cigarette inserts, confetti and the like, or more of a means than firecrackers, small fireworks, that these products have a warning on the packaging, what they're actually putting up, because my experience so far with what's written in the sub-law act, not in the law, is bad, because then we don't follow what's written in the National Assembly. However, if the legal act states that the packaging must bear the same marking, this ensures that at least the sellers and manufacturers will be bound by something to make the warnings on the packaging recorded. The second question is how big letters and what language they are written in. The fact that I expect them to be written in Slovenian is self-explanatory, and now I'm starting my experience again. In view of the up-to-date nature of our inspection services and the effect of the individual’s comment on the seller that the basic conditions and instructions or warnings are not met are not contained in the Slovenian language and it convinces me that they must indeed be enshrined in the law. I don't think it would be easy to think about these things, because it's purely innocent things that aren't so dangerous. I'm joining my colleague, Cveti Zalokar Orazem. I don't know who the warnings are then, the spots on TV that show the ruptures or any other injuries. I know that you should always talk more about the use of rockets that individuals use in their home environment, in the middle of a city village - a lot more experience in this regard would also tell you what someone sees in a doctor. But I've only got one more interesting response to the question. On December 19th, 755 answered the question "Should we ban firecrackers and missiles?" And 78% said yes. And this is from an environment in which the fire is part of folklore, where the firing of firecrackers and the sending of missiles into the air is also a universal practice and, last but not least, I refer to the role of a citizen who, on behalf of an interested group, has applied to the Group of Members and also to the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, as well as to the Ombudsman, because he believes that, because of everything that explosive and pyrotechnic means cause, the use of these means should be prohibited. I am aware that all attempts at banning in the past have also been accompanied by violations. Well, from my childhood, I remember some experience, which, in my mind, had aroused again recently when I was on television watching a contribution on how they revive the slaughtering of the men of chance. I remember, for example, the Easter shooting with carbide and with the potentials, which also caused many injuries, but this is not covered by those dates that are now prescribed and are intended to be limited. Apparently, according to the contribution, this habit is being put on again and even encouraged. I don't know what it's like to sell carbide and other resources, whether they're going to do this to qualified and authorized people and not have accidents, but I certainly know from life that there are a variety of opportunities where people want to show their surroundings and to anyone who wants to do it or who doesn't want to hear how good will they are, it's supposed to be some kind of ritual that has its roots in the past, if it's some sort of conspiracy tool to haunt demons and I don't know what else they've explained to me on this occasion. I believe that, on several aspects, the promotion of the use of such funds is problematic and that, as can be done to the enthusiasts of these funds, it can also be confirmed to the opponents who believe that this is very harmful for several reasons, but I always wonder how environmentalists are so understanding of these things, as each other is now measuring its power by whether or not it has had longer fireworks. I am aware that we are now talking about less dangerous explosives and pyrotechnics, but I point out that even in cramped settlements without qualified pyrotechnics, it is possible to track the use of these and that there are already harmful consequences, so any record that could only convince someone to be careful and to think about whether or not you will use it, I support and I do not see how we can be so irresponsible and blind that we do not want to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. I must say that we have talked a lot about this amendment on the committee itself, and that at the time, the representative of the ministry has convinced me that it is actually better that we do not have a specific text in the law, because it is a very different means to give different warnings, and I must say that I believe in the ministry here, but I must say that I am very much in favour of this warning, because it must be very clear that all the explanations given by the proponent or Cvete Zalokar Orazam must be said that, with its extensive interpretation, I fully agree that these means can be very dangerous and can cause serious consequences both for humans and for animals. Let me tell you an example, I lived alone with my family in the centre of Velenje and I can honestly tell you that we were afraid of the Silvest nights because in the city it was worse than, according to the local word on the front, there from eleven to one nights, so that for the last few years we deliberately agreed that we went on some visit to other places to avoid this abnormal situation that ruled, I say in the abnormal use of these products. Maybe I'll tell you what kind of trouble we have every time these funds are used massively, with our dog, when he experiences an epileptic attack after a couple of strokes, that's not the worst. What is worse is the consequences that people suffer with injuries to their hands, eyes, and even worse, not to mention fires that also cause great material damage. Therefore, personally, I am very conservative about the use of these products and any increased authorisation and easier accessibility cannot be personally supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u96	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't understand those who oppose the proposed amendment. Two of more or less equal content are proposed under Article 24. Those who say that it would make sense to settle this matter if it were regulated in the framework of a sub-legislative act, because it is a matter of various pyrotechnic products and so on. But the content of the amendment to Article 24 is a very general warning. A very general warning about the consequences of the use of different pyrotechnic means. The use of pyrotechnic articles may cause serious bodily injury or material damage, disturb others, disturb animals and contaminate the environment. It is simple, however, according to the opinion of the Lipa Group, an urgent warning that gives a clear signal to both parents and children, because the parents are the ones responsible for the children. I say that it would be reasonable to consider and take into account the content of the proposed amendment, also because, in the framework of the Tobacco Use Act, we were so smart when we enacted a binding ban on the use of tobacco products in public places, because this could even mean death in some cases. Then, yes, here in this case, when it comes to child safety, we simply cannot write that into law. I don't understand why not. Once again, this is a very general warning. You know, they also gave Mc'Donalds a follow-up, because there were accidents due to hot coffee, "too hot" in wafers, a warning about what it could mean to drink hot coffee, because they protected themselves, and on the other hand, they gave a warning to the consumer or the user, who just ordered hot coffee. But this is a system known by America, known by Europe, a warning as an addition to a declaration on a product. Also in the case of users of contact lenses, it is clearly stated on the box what the correct use is and what it may mean to use contact lenses incorrectly, just an example. With this, for example, we can also contribute to reducing judicial backlogs, hand-to-heart, by giving earlier clear warnings as to what the misuse of a particular product may mean. It may seem funny to someone, but that's what practice has shown in other countries. Above all, I am talking about the practice that comes from there across the meadow, in the United States of America, where a lot or a lot of people took advantage of the vague instructions on products. But that wasn't our intention when we proposed the contents of this amendment. Our aim was to clearly point out the consequences of the misuse of pyrotechnic articles. Above all, I have a story in front of me, because we have decided to spice up the debate with the stories we have experienced, and I will say, thank God, although I am not proud of the accident, as a neutral observer from the balcony, even in the environment where I live, I live. When the boy threw a firecracker in the yard, it ripped his arm open. But I say if we have a chance to protect this boy, who I believe can already read big printed letters, even though his parents are responsible for him. But if we have a chance, why don't we just put these options in the framework of the law? With this, lady, once again, clear warnings to those responsible and on the other hand clear warnings to society that we do not care what is happening in society where we live. I think it costs no one, especially the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to accept this amendment. And think again about the clear warnings. In particular, the purpose of the adoption of the amendment to Article 24 on behalf of the defence is, above all, to those youngest users of the pyrotechnic means.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. I am some sort of realist, and I know that prohibitions cannot be carried out in this area as well. We once lived in a country where this ban was in force, but those who are a little older, or even older, remember that we were either from Austria or from where we drove firecrackers, but we wouldn't talk about it. I propose to the coalition and the majority in this National Assembly to support this amendment. I'll say it for three reasons. This is the least we can do in the area of prevention, about everything that other people have said now, that we are really trying to at least a minimum of the consequences, this collateral damage that is occurring to prevent. Secondly, I mean with this obligation and this marriage obligation to write it on this pyrotechnic article, it will automatically, believe me, reduce the quantity of this quantity by quantity on the Slovenian market, because anyone who sells this product will have to have this record on this pyrotechnic medium. And thirdly, in this way we will prevent in some way the black market, reduce the amount of one that comes across the black market. All of this depends on what I have already said in the position and opinion of the Group of Members, this is at the inspection services, at the police, and not least on the officials, that this control will be controlled. And that's the minimum we can do in this preventive sense, and I think that's going to have positive effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u100	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Mr. Zinrajh, on behalf of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, I agree. Indeed, the pyrotechnics go on a crazy scale, and I myself agree with Ambassador Orazmova, so that we can live in peace without these poles and pyrotechnics. However, such an amendment or such a proposal from a legislative initiative in this area is not or has not been observed in general to prohibit pyrotechnics. Yeah, look. Speaking of such safe, secure, some sort of inscriptions that point to the danger of pyrotechnics. I have to say, I could partly agree with you. Of course, certain pyrotechnics need such a warning. This is not exactly right for me to compare with nicotine or tobacco products. Because pyrotechnics are more than just dangerous parts that cause injury or worse. So we can't throw all the pyrotechnics into the same basket as the dangerous ones, and, of course, such labelling would not be appropriate. However, we can define this in a sub-legislative act very precisely how and what, and we can also properly mark it there. I do not believe that this is the case in Slovenia, so that we do not take into account the sub-laws in Slovenia. We all know, ignorantia iuris non night still holds, even if it's a submarital act. So we have taken the matter very seriously by proposing and adopting sub-laws. We didn't do it in our pocket, because we don't care how and what the threat is in this area. Even as far as the carbide is concerned, I don't see any legal void here. It is true that under certain conditions it causes a bang, but the crack that disturbs the environment, but it is not pyrotechnics, is sanctioned. Of course, the Law on the Protection of Public Order and Peace has a provision when it comes to disturbing the environment. So much for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u102	Thank you. Anyone else in this article? I can only see one hand. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I'd only add one more thing to that. When you say, Your Honor, a government representative that some pyrotechnic means really need a warning. I say it's all of it. Last but not least, look, a heart-to-heart for safety, also an egg varietyr has instructions or warnings that it can be harmful to children, I don't know, under three years of age. Toys have these kind of warnings, too. But when we talk about pyrotechnic means, we can't write that in the framework of the law. I believe that the consequences can be, I don't know, even if he eats a little child figure out of a kinder egg just as bad as if he rips someone's arm or eyes apart. I believe, and therefore so much more so that it would make sense to write one simple warning within the framework of the law, giving instructions, instructions to manufacturers, instructions to those selling such things, not least to users, that they should be particularly careful and careful when using these products. If you want to be responsible in this way, I will tell the parents, because parents are responsible, because the most accidents with inappropriate use of these products come between children and these accidents are, I believe, the most painful.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u104	Thank you. Because I'm giving it a chance to re-apply. Mr. Jelinčič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Well, the extra notes on the pyrotechnics, by writing up that it's dangerous, don't seem to make sense. The end of the pyrotechnics itself is known to be a dangerous matter and therefore, I don't know, it doesn't even say on the umbrellas, open when it rains or anything like that. I think some things are logical, and in this case we're going to some total Americanization, where everything has to be written, because otherwise no one understands anything, and we're afraid of everything if it's not written, but something will be wrong. I don't think it's necessary to underestimate the Slovenian people, it's not as stupid as some want to show it, so I think it's nonsense.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u106	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. Surely opinions are very different and shared here, as is the case with the restriction itself. While it is true that whenever we talk about a ban, we know that what is forbidden is increasingly sweeter and more exciting. That's why I have a personal dilemma here. What I think is essential in this communication, which is written on pyrotechnic means, is, in particular, a social message - that we as a society believe that because of all these influences that have pyrotechnic means, not only because they can be dangerous to the user at a certain point, but because they also upset other people because they cause problems to animals, we all know what problems we have with them in pre-new times and because they are also harmful to the environment. And I don't think it's good that the Government didn't try to work together to create such a message that would be appropriate, and even in those parts where we differ, at which means yes or no, the first stage, the second and so forth, the categories of these products. In short, I don't have a dilemma here to make something together. I don't think it's any less logical that we put this on cigarettes. I think everyone knows cigarettes are harmful, but we did put a social message on them. We wanted to say something with this, because we all know what that means. And that's why, I think, this use needs to be limited. I guess we're also very different here in who has a certain affinity, joy, and so on to these matters, but who among us actually has the very negative experience and is kind of more inclined to think that this is some sort of thing that we don't need at all. Of course, I am on this other side and, however, I hope that this debate will be, if not another, because I know that the amendment will fall, so you have decided that at least it would be exerted in some way pressure on the minister, that some solid text and a solid form of this message do. Otherwise, I think, as I said before, the complete duality of this society and I would be very happy today if the government representatives could present to us how much taxes this country receives for pyrotechnic means. Sometimes I get the feeling that we're two-faced here, and it suits us that the country gets the money out of it, the consequences, and others think about the problems, and the point is to fill our moss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u108	Thank you. Anyone else? I can only see one hand. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I'd just like to address why we're problematic about this labeling, why we're making a lot of philosophy out of it. Look in this room, I think there are 90 Members and Members and the whole Government sitting here, relatively smart people. And look at the green markings, there's an exit, preventively, in panic, I don't know when that'll count. I'm asking you nicely, what's the tragedy, if you give some kind of preventive label, some kind of warning about pyrotechnic products, that I won't be about other labels that we meet thousands of people every day, and maybe it's not just about underestimating people, that they're not smart and so on. It's a preventive measure, and I think if we can't do anything else, that's the minimum we can do on this product. And I suggest we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u110	Thank you. I can see another hand. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Well, I don't know if you could go out here in this room anywhere else than through this door, through the wall again you can't go, maybe in quantum mechanics it's otherwise possible, but in Newton's physics it's not possible. It's said that all those leaves that are hanged at 90% are just to get enough of what I know, one stupid request that doesn't have a tail or a head. And also in pyrotechnics, it's also that the next stage will probably require that every charge that is sold, what I know, "the round kills" and that it will be one social message. It makes sense that a bullet kills if you shoot a man or an animal, but we're not going to write on every one of these things. And I don't know what kind of preventive measure this is going to be. It is more important to educate young people and show them in schools, "look, this is such a pyrotechnic tool and it works anyway, you can't do this, this, this." Where are the accidents? Our media is full of "The firecracker ripped his fingers off." There are no firecrackers allowed in Slovenia to rip their fingers off. But it's true that if children make explosives themselves, they push explosives into a cocktail bottle because it's so powerful glass and then it boosts the explosion, and that's another thing, but it's no longer pyrotechnics. It should be borne in mind that this is sanctioned inside, strengthening such matters. I don't think education and even the media, the media can't educate. The media is sensationalist writing, and then it turns out, let's just say that someone, what I know, did the ammonia explosive himself, and the iodine itself, because you make a beautiful explosive, or if you have a little more knowledge of these things, you make the picricranic acid out of aspirin and the like. Yeah, and now we're not gonna write on aspirin, so be careful, you can make an explosive out of it, and that's dangerous. Let's not go into extremes, and I don't think this amendment is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u112	Thank you. I can still see more hands, so I'm reopening the application. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u113	Thank you very much again for your word. There is no doubt that we are standing on different shores. What, once again, I stress, is the basic guide of the Lip Group that it has approached to create the content of this proposed amendment, is the protection of the smallest, first of all, of the smallest users of pyrotechnic means. A five-year-old kid or a six-year-old kid, I don't think he can make his own home, I don't know, some kind of hybrid pyrotechnic tool, but he's using a regular firecracker. But even with a regular firecracker, he can rip a five-year-old's palm open. It's not the other one. It is only possible consequences, as a warning, to be recorded on behalf of the prevention box of pyrotechnic articles. But once again, we had the Tobacco Products Act before. Nothing has been said so many times today. At that time, you advocated that adults should be informed of the consequences of smoking, the dangers of smoking. It's written under the law, it's written on a pack of cigarettes. But when we talk about pyrotechnic products, which users are also young, not from the age of 18 onward, but also younger children. Here you do not find it reasonable to write down a simple warning in the framework of the law, indicating the dangers of the use of pyrotechnic articles. I've heard from my colleagues that the search is a sign of joy. Even if some have this hobby, but still this joy can have very dangerous consequences. These dangerous consequences would make sense to clearly note and see, it is a policy that gives me no social standard that gives signals to society, what is good, what is bad, what can be done, what is not good, what is done. That's all this is about. As has already been said, the content of the proposed amendment is a general content, a very general content, but it has one simple message and this simple message goes in the direction of prevention or protection against the dangers of inappropriate or misuse of pyrotechnic articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u114	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u115	Thank you. I do not intend to deal with the measurement of those or the relationship between those who are advocates and those who are opposed to the use of explosive and pyrotechnic means. Of course, I belong to those who do not use it, but for my attitude to whether or not the packaging is written on it, it does not matter. What seems essential to me is that a warning must be given on a dangerous substance, just as every housewife in the household has a warning about the use of dangerous and harmful means. Did any of you wonder why a simple polyethylene bag has a warning that a bag should be thrown away in the trash and that it should be stored in such a way that it is not accessible to children because a child can also choke with a polyethylene bag? How many incidents of such accidents do we know from our environment? This is because when there is a risk of something happening to that thing, it is wise to use all the ways to prevent dangers, and if someone likes it or not, it should be a free enterprise initiative that would cost them extra money or not. Human life is too precious to give up warnings that can, however, tell an uneducated one that what he takes into his hands is completely harmless, harmless, and environment-friendly, but that it contains all that in itself and that I will therefore support such an amendment. I would have demanded even more that it be so that I could read, I had already said, but to understand what is written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u116	Thank you. I see two hands. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I've heard one information before that 70% or 80%, one survey has shown against the use of pyrotechnics. I come from a village where there's over 80 houses, and I don't think that this year, when New Year's Eve was celebrated, they didn't just set fire to two houses, either rockets, or butterflies, or blizzards, and I don't know what this year, because I didn't buy it for my grandkids, this year, they almost cried when they asked me, "Grandpa, but we're not going to have any rockets this year?" That's it, Comrade Majda. I think you got that poll at some retirement home. The second thing I would like to say is to compare smoking and the use of pyrotechnics, which can only be explained when the purpose is devoted to the means. Smoking - you use it with caution or care, it hurts your health every time. And that's probably why these warnings are needed. In normal use, I'll say, some pyrotechnic means can never hurt you, say those "breenzels," that's what grandchildren like, they watch. I don't think anything can happen when used normally. And this is where the colleague used to talk, and when she said, "Yes, but the inscriptions have to be, because five-year-olds are going to be..." Yeah, my God. I hope she has children so old that she's used to reading them, possibly Chinese. I agree, however, that if anything is to say that it has to be written in Slovenian and that these five-year-olds, then what Comrade Jelinčič said, will be prepared by someone, more of these put together and in bottles, eventually also of some strong glass, that it will have this effect, and here again - I could say, I will say, but this is the purpose of devoting resources, only to discuss, even if we do not know what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u119	Thank you very much. In this flood of warnings and what should be written and what is dangerous, I don't know, it seems strange to me why it doesn't say on every knife "Watch out, you can cut yourself!" In the kitchens of Slovenian housewifes there are at least 5 different knives or 10 knives, and I have never seen a knife say "Look out, you're going to cut yourself!".. You can cut yourself, you can cut yourself to death, you can slaughter someone, you can cut off his arm, you can slit his neck. I mean, terribly dangerous. No, what knives, food supplies - forks have so many spikes that anything can be done with those forks. You can put a spoon out of somebody's eye. Oh, my God. Let's say, "Look out. Dangerous. That's terrible!".. I mean, that's funny, it limits it to that thing. High school or pre-primary school. For I think that the human mind is a little larger and wider than some think. And we can't write everything and follow the Americans who write on everything that's dangerous. And I've never seen a bag write up, I don't know, "If you put it on your head, you can choke. Look out, look out, it's a dangerous bag!" After all, it should be written on all the windows: "Be careful, you can fall through the window if you go through."or from the balcony, there should be no warning on every balcony if there is such a grave danger. And probably, if you fall from one 10th floor, it's much worse than, say, if you have one firecracker, let's say it burns your fingers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u120	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then we turn to the debate on Article 35 and the two amendments. The first is proposed by the Lipa Group, the second Zares Group. Anybody want to talk? I can only see one hand. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I'm sure there's going to be a very gruesome debate on this amendment as well. This is an amendment in which we really propose in the Group that the days on which the pyrotechnic means can be sold and used be further limited. Well, that's my personal point of view. I have said and, today, have repeatedly argued why I think it is good to restrict the use of pyrotechnics. And it seems to me that such a debate in this esteemed assembly, which underestimates all the negative consequences of pyrotechnic means, is really not appropriate. I think whoever thinks it's a joke today, and that's very funny, is a little far from reality. Because the fact is that pyrotechnic agents cause injuries, that they're dangerous, that these injuries are huge. I personally know very, very tragic cases of what this has brought. And to talk about the fact that "the firecracker burns fingers" and nothing more, I find it extremely demeaning. Even on that sociological element that I was talking about today when Comrade Jelinčič was not here, so the sociological element of rejoicing at the expense that someone else may be suffering, that it upsets him, that these are older people who are having trouble putting up with all this noise at the holidays. It seems to me that the only way to be happy is to throw firecrackers. And finally, where is that mind that is supposed to dominate people if I think thousands of euros go into the air? Tell me what, except for the momentary, instant gratification, when you threw a thing under someone's feet, and he got a little scared and jumped, or maybe when some mom on the road freaked out about what was causing it? What beautiful and wonderful things do pyrotechnics do in our souls? I don't know where it is now. Where is the reason that even those we often say are also financially weaker - I must say that this is my observation, precisely in these I see a very large use and desire to use pyrotechnic means. They probably don't realize how much they're contributing to the country's taxes; if you think about it, you'd probably just get over it. The amendment proposes to limit the use only to New Year's, no sooner. I don't know why we have to listen to all this stuff one more week. And Christmas seems completely inappropriate to me. What's going on around the church is like a war! It's like we're in the middle of a third world war! That's how I see and hear things. And it doesn't bring me any joy, no pleasure, it's a family holiday to celebrate in peace. And I just don't care if what I said more than once is completely limited. Therefore, we limit the date of sale to a narrower and the dates of this application, because I think the thing is quite, quite perverse and extremely negative. I see no reason why we should encourage this in Slovenia. And today, when I listen to these discussions, it's becoming clear to me that it's not a reasonable matter, but it's even that in one of these ways we're quite pleased that this thing is, but that there are some "bussines" and that some "fine" deserve, and that they even have one of these stores, and that the state gets taxes and so on and so on. And I think that if we asked people, this would not be the case, and sooner or later we have to set a pattern, and we have to adopt some patterns of behavior in society through laws, and here we have been tested.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u122	Thank you. I can see the hand. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I don't know what a colleague, a former LDS ambassador, is in so much pain as a busines. I don't know. Sometimes it didn't. But who's causing the damage? Even cars cause damage, and no car says, "Look, don't jump under wheels, it can run you over" or something like that. When a colleague talked about this apprehension and how old people don't want to break. I don't think that's gonna hold. If nothing else, there's a whole bunch of people in my family, some former partisans who are still happy to get shot in the air today, and they're throwing up a firecracker. I'd love to. True, those who did not hope to do so do not hope and dislike today. Well, but when a colleague talked about hypnotic pleasures. After all, orgasms are also an instant gratification, and we all strive to enjoy this instant gratification as often as possible. So let anyone likes to beat him, let him bang, let him do his thing, and if the orgasm comes along, it's so much better. In this case, the sale of pyrotechnics would appear to be increasing, if that were the case. However, as regards restrictions on sales and use, I reiterate the possibility that there will be a constitutional dispute, since it is an unequal treatment of the Roman Catholic and Orthodox religions. In our case, both religions are equal in accordance with the Constitution. Roman Catholics are permitted to celebrate, Orthodoxs are not allowed to celebrate. I think it would make sense for the term of Orthodox Christmas and the New Year's Orthodox to be included in this law, because this could avoid any conflict. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u124	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article and the amendments? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REGULAR DECISION ON THE LEGISLATION OF REFERENCE PROCEDURES At its second extraordinary meeting on 4 March 2008, the Council of State decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the National Assembly to re-declare before declaring the law on the completion of the procedures for the return of property. There is no representative of the Council of State. The request was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Drag Koren, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u125	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings to Members of Parliament, Members and Representatives of the Government. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, as a parent working body, considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly should once again decide on the law on the completion of the procedures for the return of held assets. On behalf of the applicant, State Councillor Jože Mihelčič provided an additional explanation, under which he initially stressed that the State Council is not opposed to the continuation of the denationalisation procedures and therefore supports all the legitimate efforts of the Government to speed up these procedures and to put an end to them as soon as possible. However, the Council of State considers that no special law is necessary to ensure this objective. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of this service. The Legislative and Legal Service has made comments within its powers and responded only to those indications in the request of the Council of State which are of a legal nature. The representative said that the Legislative and Legal Service agreed with the Government's opinion on the request of the State Council. The Minister of Justice, Dr Šturm, presented the Government's written opinion on the request of the State Council and, in this context, explained some of the reasons for the adoption of the law and rejected the arguments resulting from the reasons for the request of the State Council. The aim of the law is to ensure that the procedures for the return of held property are completed as quickly as possible and to remove certain legal obstacles to the completion of these procedures and to introduce a constitutional right to decide on a reasonable period and the right to effective legal protection. The law pursues those objectives by laying down instructions for regular courts, the Administrative and the Supreme Court, as well as for the Constitutional Court, which decides on constitutional complaints in these proceedings. Instructive hands are something quite common, as they are determined by a number of procedural laws. He also stressed that the law does not extend the circle of beneficiaries and, according to the ZDEN, does not allow the exercise of new rights. Only those who have already submitted applications may seek denationalisation beneficiaries. He added that the law aims to close procedures and thus reduce the additional costs incurred by the disproportionately long duration of denationalisation procedures. Finally, he mentioned the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights issued in 2005 and 2006, which drew attention to the problem of changing the legal basis or conditions of a law in force during the course of the proceedings. Some members of the committee expressed their support for the law, expressing their belief that the legislator must also contribute to the speedy completion of denationalisation. 17 years of denationalisation is too long, and only this fact has had enough harmful consequences. On the contrary, other members of the Committee expressed support for the request of the Council of State because they felt that the most difficult denationalisation issues that could not be resolved in 17 years would not be resolved in any way within the short time limits provided for by law. The law forces decision-making bodies to make rapid and unquality decisions. They also considered that it was not just a procedural law, as it brought some new entitlements. The law creates new injustices mainly because it supports the return of property in nature at all costs. Finally, we voted on the view that the law on the completion of the procedures for the recovery of held assets was appropriate, but this opinion was not voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u126	Thank you. I give the floor to a government representative who is a bill-maker. Mr. Marolt, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Allow me to explain some of the reasons for the adoption of the law and to reject the misleading claims that appear in the explanation of the procrastination of the State Council and also in the media. The Ministry of Justice, as responsible for monitoring the completion of denationalisation procedures, is daily faced with a number of problems of denationalising beneficiaries that enforce a return on property of small value. Many of them have already been completely disheartened by the decision-making of administrative authorities and courts, which have been deciding their applications for more than 15 years. In a number of cases, the procedure takes unreasonablely long due to unspecified administrative and judicial practice. This also undermines confidence in the law, which is an integral part of the rule of law. Therefore, the basic objective of this Act is to ensure that these procedures are concluded as quickly as possible. The fundamental focus of the law is that it does not extend the range of beneficiaries and does not allow the application of new rights under the law on denationalisation. Any discussion towards subsequent changes in the conditions and rules for denationalisation is directly contrary to the rule of law and the principle of equality before the law. The instructions provided for in this Act shall be addressed to the courts, both the ordinary courts and the Administrative Court and the Supreme Court, which shall decide on the denationalisation, and also to the Constitutional Court, which shall decide on the constitutional complaints in these proceedings. Those deadlines are not intended for administrative authorities which decide on the denationalisation application or on the main issue. In this regard, it should be noted that these are instructional deadlines, which constitute an important guide to the courts in resolving these claims. The establishment of instructional deadlines for laws in no way interferes with the independence and independence of the judiciary. The Slovenian acquis is well known by the Institute of Instructural Timeframes, which is actually very large in our legal order and have also been adopted by the National Assembly in this mandate. This institution is normal and consistent with the principle of the division of power and the system of brakes and balances. In many judgments, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia also called on all state authorities to speedily resolve denationalisation procedures. If the State authorities which decide on these applications had taken into account the above-mentioned calls of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the denationalisation would have already been completed. As regards the length of the proposed deadlines, it is necessary to say that they are not unrealistic, since most of the applications have been decided on several occasions and the actual situation has already been examined in most cases. In the case of pending claims, legal issues are mostly at stake, which may lead to a misstatement or failure to identify the actual situation. The law solves some legal issues, making it easier for administrative authorities and courts to decide on denationalisation requests and thus to close open cases. The law aims to close procedures and thereby reduce the additional costs arising from the disproportionately long duration of denationalisation procedures. The costs of these proceedings are the costs of administrative and judicial proceedings, which are borne by the State Defence and covered by the State budget, i.e. by Slovenian taxpayers. In addition, they represent the potential costs of compensation under Article 72 of the Denationalisation Act, which allows denationalising beneficiaries to claim compensation for the impossibility of the use of denationalisation assets for a period from the entry into force of the Denationalisation Act to the decision on the application. This right is also recognised by case law for beneficiaries. In our view, the State Council's statements on the law on the completion of the procedures for the recovery of the held property are unfounded and I propose that the State Assembly, when re-voting, support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u128	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to the denationalisation process, it seems that this denationalisation train will finally arrive at the key station. But it seems that the closer it gets, the more nervous and unsuspecting. This law, which is now proposed or on which the veto has been vetoed, is a law that seems to be an attempt at another last acceleration. Many in the National Assembly, especially in the State Council, feel that this haste is too fast and that it may happen that, metaphorically speaking, this denationalising train has even wiped out or has had negative consequences. So far, the DeSUS Group has not supported this law, nor have we been able to change our position in many different interpretations. I predict that we will be in solidarity with the principled position which speaks of the rejection of this law of the Council of State, that some of the concerns raised by the proposer are certainly also justified. The Government or the proposer claims that it is merely procedural news that it is an acceleration, to set deadlines to ensure that this process of denationalisation is yet to be completed. It refers to the fact that, in this way, it would most likely avoid the additional and high costs incurred by the State through the conduct of these procedures and argues that this could probably avoid large and many compensations for the impossibility of using the facilities in question. The government also argues that it is not a matter of spreading the beneficiaries, that it is not a matter of spreading the rights, not of new burdens of the country, nor of any additional injustices. Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly and the Council of State speak about these same things, but otherwise. Inside these almost controversial positions, which are excluded, there will be a need to find a city. And this city, which the Dessus Group has somehow defined, is that it is still much harder on what is evident in the law, so it does not intend to support it. We believe, together with some others, that this Article 4 is a relatively detailed and comprehensive article on urgency, an article on certain nervousness, and that in fact it is also in some ways exerting almost almost the pressure of the executive and legislative authorities on an independent branch. It cannot be fully stated that there will be no new costs, that there will be no new beneficiaries, that there will be no new enlargement of rights, that the proposal is in short completely neutral. You just couldn't convince us to do that. And some of the obvious, including the Council of State, concerns about the transfer, for example, of powers relating to the disputed return of the so-called dual value, which has occurred in the meantime, as regards the dispute over the possibility of the restoration of legally completed procedures and the persistence of return in nature, but also to agree with the views of the Council of State. If the proposal of the law allows for confusion and bad solutions, it is probably not necessary or necessary support, because in reality it is a matter of inconvenience, weakness, error, because it is indeed the most important problems in relation to land, regarding cultural monuments, forests and probably these very difficult procedures that must be carried out in the same way as some, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Even if it takes longer than you'd like. [[...]] We will therefore support the proposal for a veto or we will not support the law as proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. We in the Slovenian National Party will not support this law. The fact is that the law is written on the skin of the Roman Catholic Church and others who have now come from abroad and would like to buy Slovenian properties, wealth and others. The circle of beneficiaries from abroad is expanding. What's beautiful is a whole bunch of some species of hangovers, some kind of kinship in the 25th knee, none of them can speak Slovenian, but they sensed that they could get some property or something in Slovenia. They are introduced for beneficiaries as some new rules and some new rights. However, the law does not provide any concrete answer to still unresolved and most complex matters, such as requests for the return of forests, agricultural land and cultural monuments and public property. There's nothing to be saved. And anyway, in Slovenia, return was saved in a very specific way. We are the only country in the world that we have actually returned most in nature and supported such returns with financial means. The whole world is laughing at us, laughing at us all over Europe. And they laugh at us pitifully and because they think we're fools. But the Vatican laughs beautifully, which in such a wonderful way has come to a vast amount of additional wealth. The law also allows some denationalising beneficiaries to return twice as much as they should. On the other hand, no one takes into account that 80% of Slovenian wealth, such as wealth or Slovenian properties, was primarily owed to Zavarovalnica Slavija before World War II. Nobody's talking about it. It's all coming back free. Beautiful. That can't be any nicer. No investment, no poofs disappear, but you get back, once you had a shoe shop, today you get back a shoe factory. Great. Some like this, but I think that citizens and citizens do not, because it is money that people have invested not since Slovenia's independence, but since the beginning of the independent state, when we were still in Yugoslavia, forward. People have been working, they have had a variety of things I know, work actions, self-contributions and everything, so that today some new tycoons will "bass" all together. In fact, we will get denationalisation tycoons, which we have already received in some ways in the Roman Catholic Church. This law is an exclusive example of the extra-budgetary financing of the Roman Catholic Church. And the fact is that the Catholic churches, their institutions, their individual ranks, or their legal successors, are now many as legal successors, even though our judicial authority, our branch of this administrative authority does not check it or examine it too poorly. These are one of the largest beneficiaries of denationalisation. This is a requirement of approx. 250 million euros. I mean, it's a nice money the country could use anywhere else. No, you're gonna have to give this to the church. If we take only the archdiocese of Ljubljana and the rest of the archdiocese, these demands they make are enormous. Monastery in Kostanjevica, Arboretum Volči brook, building of the Krajina archive in Maribor and so on. By abolishing what had already been arranged in Maribor, such as the Betnav Castle, despite the fact that it was a legally binding exchange agreement. We will not support the law in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Lipa Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u133	Respectable present. In the first sentence, in the Lipa Group we are pleased with the decision of the State Council. We would like the National Assembly to confirm today the decision of the State Council not to repeat one of the biggest mistakes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has made in the field of denationalisation. The fact is that a government proposal that seeks new denationalisation, which extends the range of beneficiaries mainly from Austria and Italy, not in the form of a replacement, and a new possibility of applications by the Roman Catholic Church, cannot be proud of our country of Slovenia. I will not talk about the conflict of interest, I will not talk about the Minister's membership under the Order of the Roman Catholic Church, nor about his oath, which binds him to the financial support of the institution. But I will speak to my firm belief about the shameful government proposal that new injustices will take place. Not long ago, the Roman Catholic Church committed itself to the construction of the agricultural school in the municipality of Maribor. In spite of this, the Ministry, which is preparing the law, has paid €8 million in compensation for their resignation or despite that. In doing so, I should say that only EUR 13 million is earmarked from the State budget for the financing of the whole of public education. Then someone should say that we value education more than the Roman Catholic Church or its appetites. Allow me to point out the guidelines and the way and content of the work of the current government. Following a new proposal from the same minister, 800 million euros would be spent on compensation for the destruction of the movable and immovable property of those who, inter alia, have worked with the occupying party under the NOB. On the other hand, the National Assembly complicates the harmonisation of minimum wages, a single charge of EUR 20, for those who receive minimum wages. Ladies and gentlemen, where are we going? One of the government's lawyers, i.e. SDS lawyers in Maribor, walks through graves, looks for tombstones with German surnames and sends behaviour to their families in exchange for sending out their denationalisation claims against, not the Government, not the SDS, but against citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, for whom we find almost 40% of them living below the poverty threshold within each item of the agenda. On this side or rather, at the time of the dictatorship of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we pay these kinds of compensations, compensations, and similar things to people, associations that are exclusively, in my opinion, completely unjustifiable. I will not say what will happen to Triglav National Park, Triglav National Park, Triglav National Park, if this law is adopted, because we all know what it is. At the end of the term of office, it is necessary to fulfil the commitments by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But if these were commitments after the recruitment or commitment of a unique character, then so be it. But in these cases, ladies and gentlemen, where the State Council is also trying to get us to be wise, and especially to be responsible for citizens and citizens, I can also call them taxpayers, because we are actually taxpayers who are the authors of the money that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been throwing through large windows and directions in the last six months. In the Lipa Group, of course, we will be most pleased to support the decision of the State Council that this law, prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, would never see the light of the world, and its contents would never have been carried out in the life of all of us. In the decision, I ask you, on behalf of the Group of Members, what was the hall around a one-time, one-year, minimum wage coordination, where real change is compared to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable assembly, distinguished representatives of the government! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will once again support the law on the completion of the procedures for the return of held property, which eliminates legal uncertainty and shortcomings so far and thus gives the legal basis for the completion of the procedures for uncompleted denationalisation as soon as possible. As early as 1991, a law on denationalisation was passed, which unrealistically announced the completion of the proceedings within one year of the submission of the complete claims of the injured. Because of the poor solutions, this could not be achieved. The Constitutional Court has also repeatedly drawn attention to too slow procedures in denationalisation cases and called on the State authorities to solve open cases expeditiously. It also noted that due to delays, high costs are incurred for the debtors who must or will still have to compensate for the damage caused by the inability to use the assets. It therefore sought to speed up denationalisation procedures by repealing the individual provisions of the Denationalisation Act or by its explanations affecting the substantive decision-making of the authorities. On the basis of these decisions of the Constitutional Court, the law has also been amended and amended several times. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we do not agree with the decision of the Council of State and their unconvincing arguments for non-legislative support. The written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the debate in the State Council and on the home labour body strengthens us in the belief that the arguments for opposition and the State Council are not justified and therefore re-confirmation of the law is necessary. In our parliamentary group, we are surprised to see both the Council of State and the opposition move forward, arguing, on the one hand, that the denationalisation procedures that have been going on for seventeen years must be completed as quickly as possible, and on the other hand, there are so many contradictions, assumptions, criticisms, fears and all that without any concrete alternative proposals, how to close the remaining 3% or more than 1,200 incomplete denationalisation procedures that are being implemented by over six beneficiaries. It would be correct for the opposition to say openly and honestly that this law will never be supported because the Roman Catholic Church is also among the beneficiaries. This is evident from the debate. Since there are no valid different arguments against the conclusion of denationalisation, we can conclude that this is mainly ideological opposition. That there are no valid arguments for opposition also shows a modest response by the municipalities when the National Assembly asked them to forward their opinion to the draft law and indicate the specific problems that would arise by the adoption of the law. Only five municipalities responded with general comments mainly to the original 7th Article, which was later deleted by the amendment of the Committee. No municipality, however, mentioned the particular problem that would have led to the adoption of the law in their country, nor did there have any response from the municipalities where the mayors were also Members who opposed this law. The re-confirmation of the law on the completion of the procedures for the return of State property will facilitate the completion of the procedures, which is in the interest of both beneficiaries and the State. This also follows the Constitutional Court, which points out that failure to complete denationalisation not only threatens the principles of the rule of law, but does a great deal of material damage to the debtors. Above all, we must ask the National Assembly whether denationalisation is a problem or whether the original problem of nationalisation is confiscation of property. If more than 60 years ago there were no very criminal and immoral acts of the then - war human authority, which caused enormous injustices, which unfortunately have not been corrected to date, this law would not have been discussed or decided upon. We have no ideological problems in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to confirm once again the law on the completion of the procedures for the return of held assets.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u137	If the Government were correct in its claim that the law does not bring any more than just encouraging the court to issue decisions within three months so that there would be no new procedures after renewal, so that there would be no new rights, then I do not know why the law would be needed. Let me explain. Is it simply for a decision to be taken in a court of law that may be unclear or disputed, but all matters are clarified, that law must be adopted? Ladies and gentlemen, this is simply not true and the government is deceiving the Slovenian public with its claims. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal made by the Council of State and allow the possibility to gather a sufficient number of Members and Members who will not support it again so that the law will not be adopted. The following statements are correct for us: that denationalisation should be completed a month earlier, a month later, in any event, because there is a law and solutions exist. The fact that it has not been fully implemented in all cases is a matter of fundamental law. He caused a lot of open problems. He caused a lot of confusion. If we want to stay on the principles that you are talking about, that the law in implementation should not interfere with the basic text, then things must be done under this law, not re-ordered. The government says the law does not introduce any new rights. Read the articles of the law and you will find that this is simply not true. Articles 2, 3, 8 and 10 shall introduce the possibility of solutions to denationalisation beneficiaries being regulated differently from those covered by the applicable law. That's a fact. We need to read it. Otherwise, you can tell the public it's not true. But sooner or later, the truth will be revealed. And maybe the government, if not before, will have to take responsibility for the elections. The government has decided to adopt this law for unlawful reasons. Because there is no need for legal reasons. But to show his political colour and to fulfill his promises to those who have not received so far for many reasons, sometimes even on their own account, the restitution of property, as set out and demanded denationalisation. You're saying there were no suggestions. There were a lot of suggestions. But you didn't accept any. If you nod, it's again or forget or a fat lie. We're the only ones who put cca into the work of the mother. 10 amendments, none of which were accepted. Nor has the amendment been adopted to show how much material obligations the State had at the expense of denationalisation were. And I'm telling you that in 1991, when the law was first adopted, it was said that in euros it would be around 0.85 billion euros, that in five years the government had found that it would be about 1.80 billion euros, and that the Government, Minister Sturm, now admits that it would be about 4 billion euros in nature and over compensation, with you going to look at the basis of the calculation. One square metre of business space or apartment is worth 300 euros in these 4 billion. Now, smile, say, that's a real value that counts for everything. That is why I think it is necessary to allow a bad and unacceptable law on denationalisation to come to its conclusion, not to adopt the ideological law that the Government has drawn up in order to gather for the part of the electorate and the electorate who will be involved in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u138	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Dear President for the word! All of them have a nice greeting, including the Ministry's lawmakers. In the Liberal Democracy Club of the Law, which is of a highly lobbyistic pre-election nature, we strongly oppose it, we have opposed it all the time and we will also oppose it in the future. We do not oppose the return of property and correct injustices. But to create other injustices and even worse financial and material consequences by correcting injustices, that is too much. Or, above all, we would support a story where it is about correcting injustices with money, resources, not by returning in nature, because in everyday life, and by doing so as a mayor of daily life, we come up with crazy stories that have nothing to do with correcting injustices. To think that it is necessary to return 16,000 hectares of ringwood for the correction of injustices, to return the Volčí brook arboretum as it is today, or to the southern coast of Lake Bohinj, Slap Savico, and perhaps even a small Triglav and the Sevener of Lakes. Do all those who advocate it know that in practice where the municipalities had ideologically defined mayors and did not object to it, we returned in the nature of the water reservoir to a few thousand people and no one complained? Roads, land, children and sports courts. And now that, I hope, after a happy coincidence, the mandate of this different one-minded man somehow expires, in three months quickly, let those who come after us pay back what comes back so that we don't run out of time. What remained in denationalisation after seventeen years? The remaining 3 or 4% of the most problematic, most difficult cases that the courts in which you so trust have believed and led for more than three and a half years have not been able to solve. Now, of course, the story must be completed quickly within three months. Who claims that because there was no legal, legal way in a decade and a half in a position to save me, apart from a decree which is just as unjust as the one with which it was taken, can end within three months with a specific purpose and a certain interest? And the injustices caused by some of our parents and grandfathers will be on the account of taxpayers, our children and grandchildren, paying generations. This law and denationalisation, which we took in Slovenia at the time of the rule of Demos, is unique in the world and Europe. As generous as we were, there was no one in this Europe and this world. We're obviously an extremely wealthy country. And I am glad that in the pre-election period these gifts are now of benefit to only some who are raining from the sky, and the justice ministry has been especially activated. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we continue to strongly oppose all such behaviour and thank the State Council for giving us more time to think about making a good and better decision. You've written down several times that this is a procedural law. What kind of procedural law? The content law with a precise purpose and purpose - to return to speed, including what is questionable and controversial. Five times, six times in the course of these discussions, I have already asked the distinguished Minister Sturm whether the country will make an effort and legally undertake to obtain data from archives in Slovenia and abroad. We have already returned the property to those who once had it under mortgage and have received the mortgage paid, or we are also returning to those who were, say, at the time of denationalisation at the same time, English citizens and had the right and opportunity to receive compensation from Germany in England. And now to all those who have received [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Once again, we'd like to return to speedy preemptively. [[...]] Let us return something to our workers and children who are more in need of this help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u141	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, representatives of the Ministry, I welcome you very much, and I also welcome the representative of the Council of State in absentia. The Denationalisation Act, which was adopted in the year of Slovenia's independence, pretentiously announced that full applications for the return of the property will be resolved within a year. Despite the fact that denationalisation requirements have been dealt with as a priority in recent times, we are in a 15-year backlog, as all claims have not yet been resolved. For such a long process, there must be several reasons. Longevity results in high costs for both the country and the beneficiaries. In Novi Slovenija we hoped that we were united, that procedures should be brought to an end as soon as possible. Unfortunately, we are not what was expected, as otherwise denationalisation procedures would not have literally dragged on almost all the time in our country's existence. Someone had a political interest in this, and it is time to point the finger at those responsible. As soon as the recovery procedures were completed, the task was one of the priorities set by the current coalition after 12 years of different governments that did not have this priority. We wrote in the coalition contract, quote: "The process of denationalisation must be brought to an end as soon as possible. The Ministry of Justice should play a special role in this regard with the task of coordinating and managing all levels of decision-making regarding denationalisation requests." End of quote. In this place it is necessary to recognise the Ministry of Justice under the leadership of Minister Lovra Šturm and Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who has tried to bring matters to an end with various measures and guidelines, but some responsible authorities have failed to fully take this into account. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we are confident that the Act on the Completion of the Return Procedures for Sustainable Property will accelerate and complete the process of denationalisation. We wish to stress that the fundamental principle of the rule of law is the principle of justice. We are convinced that this law is written exclusively in this function, because it is a country because of people and not people because of the state, so we are aware and we are committed to finally correcting the injustices that have been committed. In a number of decisions, the Constitutional Court has pointed out that the State authorities have acted too slowly in denationalisation cases. The Constitutional Court has requested that, in the light of public interest, all the procedures for the recovery of the seized property be completed as soon as possible. It called on all the state authorities involved in the denationalisation procedures to resolve open cases quickly, but it also does not mean that matters are being resolved in a timely manner. The call of the Constitutional Court shall apply both to courts, to the defence, to administrative units, to the Government and to the National Assembly. Those who vote against the law today will vote against the decisions of the Constitutional Court and will vote in favour of the continuation of the 12-year-old continuity. They will also vote for a new increase in the costs paid by taxpayers due to still unresolved denationalisation claims. The hate speech that has been seen here today in some positions must be causing bloody travel forces on the Slovenian Constitution. The aim of the law on the completion of the procedures for the return of held property, which was very unconvincingly rejected by the Council of State, is to ensure the speedy and qualitative completion of the procedures for the return of held property and to remove certain legal obstacles to the completion of these procedures, and to exercise the constitutional right to decide within a reasonable time and the right to effective legal protection. The basic orientation of the law is that it does not extend the range of beneficiaries and does not allow the application of new rights under the Denationalisation Act. Since the Law on Denationalisation does not provide for new entitlements, there will be no additional budgetary implications. And since the country is a country because of people and not people because of the state, we will vote in favour of the law again by Members of New Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members. The subject matter of the return of held property is an extremely sensitive area. This is also proved by the veto of the Council of State, which requires that Members decide once again on the law under consideration. With regard to the persistence of these proceedings, the Constitutional Court has also repeatedly called upon the State authorities to conclude matters relating to the return of property as soon as possible. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are committed to concluding the process of denationalisation as quickly as possible. We are aware that due to many factors the process is very complicated and that the frequent change in legislation in this area leads to problems and too long recovery procedures. The fundamental objective, this is the completion of still open denationalisation procedures, we have been trying to achieve 17 years. It's high time the story ended after all this time. In doing so, we must be careful not to cause additional injustices. The fact is that long-term procedures cause a lot of material damage and indirect damage as the length of proceedings seriously creates the rule of law. The fact that denationalisation has not yet been completed also causes unnecessary damage to everyday affairs and projects that are only indirect in the denationalisation process. Cases of large projects, whether personal or national, have been known for months or even years only because there was an object in an area that was in the process of denationalisation and therefore it was not possible to continue the project. Due to all these problems and long-term procedures in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome the law under consideration, which we believe will quickly complete the procedures for the return of held property and remove some legal obstacles to the completion of these procedures. Many inconsistencies have also arisen as a result of frequent changes in denationalisation legislation, which in some cases lead to violations of the principle of equality or, in specific cases, to unconstant solutions. According to the Slovenian People's Party Group, the proposed law actually simplifies procedures or solves some other open issues. It also regulates the possibility of entering property rights on returned property into the land register, regulates the obligation to acquire property rights by the public benefit manager and so on. We therefore believe that the law is good and appropriate, including in terms of legal and democratic society, it is appropriate to finally complete these procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u145	Dear President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! We will not support the draft law on the completion of the procedures for the return of held assets to which the State Council has voted veto, as we did not support this proposal and we have opposed it in previous proceedings in the National Assembly. In fact, as I mentioned earlier, this law should be called the Restoration Act, a law that attempts to restore property ownership 60 years ago and start all over again, as you might say. Of course, that's impossible. Slovenia, as you know, colleagues and colleagues, passed a law on denationalisation in the early 1990s, which was far more radical than those adopted in former socialist countries. Its strictness and consistency resulted in a number of problems and self-blocking provisions that made it difficult to implement the law. At the same time, there were new injustices, not only in those who were affected by the return but also among those who were entitled to return. Despite the crosses and difficulties with the law, the attempt to amend it, constitutional provisions and decisions, the process of denationalisation is as it is; before completion. There are still some more complex and complex problems that are being solved. From this point of view, the denationalisation of the law is not necessary at all unless the current government, identified by the Minister of Justice, does not wish to come into this process and amend the rules of the game just before the end. And that's what this is all about. Some articles have already been pointed out. I specifically point to Article 8 which may mean, and means, an unjustifiable material benefit, when the walled building land is returned essentially as an unwalled or even agricultural land or any other land, which is definitely corruptively obtained, I would say, an unlawfully acquired property benefit in all other relations in this country, at the same time Article 11 allows for the renewal of procedures that have already been completed by a legal decision and we can reasonably expect those beneficiaries, among whom the Church is in particular, to be able to reopen procedures where they are not satisfied with such a breakdown of the matter. The island of Blei will be the most significant, I predict today, such an example. That is why we cannot support such a law. I myself have repeatedly stressed in previous discussions that denationalisation was an act of legal violence or violence of revolutionary law. And in 60 years, this marriage repeats exactly the same thing. It is an act of revolutionary violence and revolutionary law. Thank you very much. We're not going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u146	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The vote on the law will take place today in the framework of the vote at 3 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u147	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - the second is the draft law on anti-competitiveness, the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 45. We're voting. 62 Members and Members voted for 46, against 5. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS and NSI to Article 81. We're voting. 62 Members and Members voted for 48 votes to 5. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we propose that the third consideration of the draft law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u149	Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. I note that 66 Members and Members voted, 54 votes against 4. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I'm breaking this agenda. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the adopted amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. The amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants by the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly on Tuesday, 1 April. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. Procedural question, Dr. Gantar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u150	Mr Vice-President, I would just like to remind you and the rest of you that the Group of Ambassadors is indeed carrying out obstruction at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u151	Thank you very much. They also announced the following groups: SD, Lipa, DeSUS, SNS and LDS. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 44 Members and Members present. I find that the assembly is inconclusive, so we will vote again. The vote is under way. 45 Members and Members are present. I find that the National Assembly is once again unconscionable, so we will vote for the third time at 3 p.m. and 15 minutes. Thank you very much. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u152	Dear Members and Members! We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda. I would like to inform you that we will now carry out a third vote. We vote on the amendment tabled. There were 45 votes in favour and 45 votes in favour. I'm guessing the assembly wasn't concluded. In order not to interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly, I propose that we proceed with the further vote. At the same time, we will agree with the leadership of the National Assembly at that time when we will continue to vote on this point. I understand that you agree with this, and I interrupt this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - secondly, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. 59 Members and Members voted for 50, against 3. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LDS and SD to Article 5. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 23; if it is not adopted, the amendment to Article 23 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There were 64 votes in favour and 17 in favour against 46. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the first amendment of the Lip Group to Article 11. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 9. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the second amendment of the Lip Group to Article 11. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 63 votes against 1. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I have previously reminded you that the amendment to Article 23 has become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 26. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the proposal from the law. Since the amendments were adopted to more than two articles and the proposal was not proposed, yes, I am sorry, the assembly will hold its third hearing at the next meeting. I will put the decision to the vote. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the bill on judicial fees - under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the proposed amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS; I will read through to the end.; and DeSUS, paragraph 34. Mr. Sculpture, please. What do you want? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u153	No, Mr. Vice President, I held my hand to ask a question. As you know, the six groups have obstructed decision-making at the previous point, and it is not clear whether the law was then passed or not adopted in our absence. [[Objection in the hall.]] I'm sorry, but you can't hear that in the lobby. I would ask you for a clear answer whether or not the law has been adopted, given that today, at the consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, we have received the instruction of the President of the National Assembly so that this point will not be interrupted in any way that all the elements for discussion and decision are presented.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, I didn't know what you meant when you held your hand, that's the first. Secondly, the meeting of the National Assembly was an open meeting and I think that the majority of Members were accompanying this meeting and you were also informed of what was going on. That's my answer. However, I would like to tell you once again that the assembly of the amendment was not adopted for reasons of indiscretion and was decided, without anyone saying that the vote on this point due to the failure of the vote will take place at the same meeting later, in agreement with the leadership of the National Assembly. I don't want to go into a debate right now, please. We continue to vote on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 34. We're voting. There were 50 votes in favour and 47 against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Here, Mr. Školč, is the procedural question concerning this item of the agenda that we have just voted on?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In connection with this meeting. Mr Vice-President, I ask you, "How is it possible for an unconfined assembly to make a substantive decision and be valid?" You said the assembly had decided to abort, the assembly could, excuse me, so it was said [[...]] [[...]] [[to talk to each other.]] The decision cannot be taken if the assembly is not qualified to make a decision and I ask you to suspend the meeting in order to clear this up with the President of the National Assembly, as this leads to the dismantling of the decision-making process in the National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u156	Mr Školč, I said before, you really did not hear me, but I would now repeat that I would suggest that the meeting should not be suspended because of the indiscretion of the vote, but that we should do so later at the same meeting, but that we will discuss this in the course of a meeting with the Head of the National Assembly. And please, if you'll allow me to continue this session, because I don't think we're going to get anywhere, not to one or the other result. I give my word to the motion for a law [[...]] [[to talk to each other.]] Mr. Jelinčič, I'll give you a procedural one when you ask me more culturally. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I can't because you can't hear me or you can't see or you won't hear and you won't see. Well, thank you very much. I do not know how it is possible for an unconscioned assembly to make a binding decision. That's not clear to me. Then here this democracy breaks down, and in this case, Mr President, then it used to be, sometimes, but I don't think we can allow it today. It is not such a problem for them to bring another member of their own, but Mr Battelli to call Mrs Possonec, and the matter will be resolved. Not like that. In fact, the democracy of this National Assembly is being tested here, and if you want to prove that this democratic instrument no longer applies, you have succeeded.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u159	After consulting the Head of the National Assembly, we have agreed that you will be informed of the continuation of the vote on a point that has not been voted on by consensus. So allow me, please, to continue the session, and not to interrupt me with procedural questions about this issue or this point, and I think that this will lead to the end of the meeting. Thank you. We're at point six now. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor, Secretary of State Marolt.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u160	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third consideration of the draft law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u161	Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. 65 Members and Members, 47 votes to 15. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Tuesday, 1 April 2008, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment is adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal of the law on explosive and pyrotechnic means, the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 24. I would like to remind you, however, that if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There were 67 votes in favour and 24 in favour against 39. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Lip Group of Ambassadors to Article 24. Here you are, Mr Zagorac, on behalf of the Lip Group of Ambassadors, an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Dear President! In the Lip Group of Members, we will support the amendment, but we also appeal to the other Members and Members of this Assembly and possibly to the Government, to the extent that it still has any influence with any indication that it affects its Members and Members in this House to support such an amendment. The amendment does not require anything other than that the pyrotechnic products sold during the holidays are more or less New Year's holidays, in order to record the text on these products, at least 5 millimetres, which would stand something like this on the box: "The use of pyrotechnic products can cause serious injury or material damage, disturbs others, disturbs animals and pollutes the environment." I see nothing wrong with such a dictatorship and such an amendment. New Year's Eve will come too quickly, and we will receive too quickly, including by the Ministry of the Interior, all those expensive ads on TV that will warn that pyrotechnic means cause such and different injuries, such and other harm. That would be kind of the first aspect if this amendment were accepted. But it also seems to me that we could help or even prevent, to some extent, the sale of pyrotechnics in black. This would make it easier for either the police or the inspection services to collect these safe items for all those who will sell products that will not have this inscription. It should be noted that this country has decided to place such inscriptions on cigarette boxes, on alcoholic beverages, on certain toys, but you are not interested in this happening on pyrotechnics. I don't see why not. After all, who are the largest users of pyrotechnics. In addition to the children, for me, the child is up to 16 years of age, and those who "gips hit them across the border" and in 1991 as specialists defended this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We're voting. 71 Members and Members voted for 24 to 45. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Lip Group of Members to Article 35. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under point 2 shall become irrelevant. Mr Zagorac, on behalf of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u164	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. I'm sorry the previous amendment wasn't adopted. However, we now have before us an amendment to Article 35, which I will try to explain to all those who have not had time to review the law, to identify or follow the instructions on what this amendment actually means. In the first phase, it means that 14-year-olds are not allowed to purchase pyrotechnics, but only 16-year-olds are allowed to do so. It seems to me that this limit is quite appropriate, as well as those who say that children are in need by the age of 16, or that even 14 - year - olds in the presence of parents can use pyrotechnic means, I wonder whether it matters whether he throws a firecracker in the yard or if his father blows his hand in front of his father or not. Tragedy is so much bigger. The second part of this amendment, however, says or goes in the direction that the use of pyrotechnic means is allowed, I will say, only from 31 December to 1 January. At that time, the essence of survival, the release of adrenaline, the sense of importance, the sense of knowledge and the knowledge of weapons, I don't know anything, the smell of powder, whatever, the worst and most adrenaline, the adrenaline and the powder to the "dwarfs" we give it the will to do. Whoever's going to object to this and say, "There are some other holidays that are celebrating in this direction." It seems to me that Christmas is not exactly a holiday when it falls, nor is it a big night, the establishment of a political party, as is the custom of some of the parties in this House, nor is it to be mutilated. It is simply pollution, animal intimidation and, above all, threats to personal safety and the safety of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u165	We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour, and 70 in favour, 23 in favour, against 45. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 35 of the Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. 72 Members and Members voted for 26, against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments to the amended proposal for a second reading were not adopted, the amendments to the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. Explanation. Ladies and gentlemen, if I may overlook your hand, I ask you kindly, you know my name and my function, if you turn to me. Thank you very much. Initiation of the application on behalf of the parliamentary group, please. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u166	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. I'm sorry, but your coworker saw you well that I had already made a significant point before it came to me that I wanted a word. So, it's not a problem, you're really hard, but that's why there are coworkers sitting next to you. In the Group of Members, we have always warned that we do not behave rationally enough in limiting pyrotechnic assets in Slovenia. We have great concerns about this, particularly because of the fact that amendments have not been adopted today with which we wanted to limit the use of these funds. On the other hand, the warning that products would, however, say that they are dangerous agents that cause serious bodily harm, which also cause negative consequences both in other people, we are talking mainly about the elderly, we are talking about the sick and, of course, they also have an impact on animals and the environment. It is our opinion that in this matter we do not simply have to follow the directives of the European Union, but we could be more restrictive because the public warns us and tells us that there are many negative consequences for the use of pyrotechnics. Today's debate in Parliament at the time of this law has shown, I will say, not that we want to do as little as possible, but that some actually support this issue. This is probably supported by the State in particular because it receives a certain part of the tax from this, but our assessment suggests that the negative consequences are too great. The joy that I will say, provided that we may cause trouble to others, that we are aggressive and incomprehensible to others in the village, let's say, in religious rituals and the like, I think that such joy is not based on real foundations, so in our group of Members we express our concern that this law is not restrictive enough to limit also to certain other ways of using these funds and, of course, that the state behaves in a double manner. On the one hand, the police warn, we spin videos, and on the other hand, we are very happy to collect taxes and make money available in some way. Above all, I think that these funds are a reflection of a consumer society that does not need to be fully developed by us. This is not an honor to do good. That is why we will not support this law in our group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Check-in is on, please. Mr. Aloys Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to support this marriage, and I have to say that I didn't get too deep into the content. But in view of this debate - of course, there is no point in Slovenia to legalise something different in this area, such as that throughout the European Union. Because if we prohibit, in neighbouring Austria, Hungary or Italy, you can purchase these funds peacefully, then of course you have done nothing in the Republic of Slovenia, except to impose certain additional tasks on our institutions. What's most sweet is what's forbidden. And if you're forbidding it, then in some ways, you're inciting it even more. This is particularly popular in young people who want to be ahead of what someone wants to ban with some kind of legislation. Earnings, the state, religious holidays, and what else you mentioned, unfortunately, has nothing to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u170	I'll be happy to support this marriage myself, because I think it's good. I'm sure at least the law regulates all the necessary things. The fact that the amendment on labelling has not been adopted - I think it has been made clear by the Ministry, that this will be regulated by sub-laws, and I believe in it and I have no fear of it. However, as I have already said in my debate, but I fully agree with myself and I see no sense that this use is not allowed for how long, it is said that I agree with this time limit in terms of both procurement and use. It is true, however, that as regards procurement in the European Community, where borders are open and there is no point in us having different arrangements than in other countries. It is true that things can be very dangerous and actually cause great harm to people, older people, children, animals, that they also cause quite a lot of material damage with fires. And I have to say that I am very surprised at the new year, how much money we have Slovenians, that we can blow it up so much, and talk about poverty in Slovenia, it already makes no sense here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u171	Mr. Presecnik raised his hand a little earlier. Here you go. I got a good look at him.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. And I don't know if I'll be happy or not, because they're not the problem with this change. About two years ago, when I was replacing one of our members on the committee, I suggested that we should consider banning both sales and the use of certain types of pyrotechnic articles and devices and so on. Since then, I have heard cases of the Austrians walking in some border areas of Slovenia for our holidays, for our church holidays, for our places to throw bombs, these firecrackers, and what I know about everything else, I don't know about it. But why are they walking? Because we are allowed to do so, and in Austria this is not allowed. That's why I don't think it's worth telling you how good it is to have a little bit more restrictions. I would have put a complete limit on it, but at that time, I was literally ridiculed by the Committee on Internal Policy. Mr. Koren, not under your leadership, two years ago when it was, I think it was a previous change in treatment. That is why I will be most pleased when we are, and I guess I won't be around anymore when we actually prohibit sales and use for certain categories or certain types of these products. This time, whether we vote for it or not, I say that I will not be happy or sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. The law itself is because the proposed amendments, which would somehow restrict the use, at least in my opinion, of these dangerous things have not been supported, will not be supported. My belief that something is allowed in Europe and why they should restrict me did not convince me. Since we know that marijuana is allowed in Amsterdam in the Netherlands, we still don't have marijuana. At the same time, the use of heroin for our own needs is allowed, but we do not yet have it. So if we want to be so restrictive and so limited to this Europe, then let us relax everything, just like everyone else. To me, pyrotechnics seem to be even more dangerous than marijuana. But it's true, like the speaker said before me. All these bombs carried by the Austrians for some in this country in order to resolve this interstate conflict might be best to go by the specialists who "the Gypsies hit them over" defended our country and to the Croatian border to release their fetal adrenaline and the smell of powder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We're voting. 71 Members and Members voted for 54, against 9. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - this is with the re-decision on the Law on the completion of the procedures for the return of held property. We are moving on to a decision on that law. At the same time, I would like to point out that a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for the adoption of that law. That's 46 or more. I am opening a list of reasons for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Miran Run you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Our Group of Social Democrats will vote against the adoption of this law. I believe that our argument is for all those who do not read the law and believe in the Minister and Government that this law is urgently needed in order to improve denationalisation while at the same time saying that the law will not be new, nor on procedures, nor on material rights, nor on possible new ones. Those who believe this and get on your nerves to warn you that this is not true and that the law opens up many new problems, many new rights bring, will also increase procedures, because according to the jurisdiction it will be able to renew them again, and you will have what you have. Secondly, what I would like to say is whether it is wise to adopt such a law with the votes of only three coalition parties and perhaps another vote by the representative of nationality who came to the third day for the vote at this point, perhaps. But I don't think that's the best sign for such an important thing. Even at this point, an agreement between the coalition and the opposition might be possible if you were prepared for it, but you were not, because you feel that everything must be done before the end of the mandate to show your devotion to those who will gain the realization of rights under this law, which, according to your claims, is already a denationalisation law. If that were the case, we should propose enforcement laws for many laws. And if we found after three months that this law of enforcement did not yield full results, we would propose a new law on the enforcement of the law. I have to say, I'm surprised the government goes into such projects and advocates such laws. It's a long way from the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. We will not support this law in the Lip Group of Members. Ambassador Saša Peca's presentation of Lipa's position is clear and clear, I will say, some of the key arguments: Why does the Government exaggerate why the Government does not act on behalf of the national interest when it comes with a law that causes new injustices when it makes such a law. A veto of the Council of State was passed on to the law, not without a reason, a respected colleague and colleague. If I just snap for a second. By means of compulsory legal instruments, the decision-makers are forced to make swift and unquality decisions. New rights are being created, creating new injustices. A wide range of beneficiaries from abroad are being introduced, new remedies are being introduced for extraordinary renewal of denationalisation procedures already completed. The law points to the Government's irresponsibility and its objective of returning as many assets as possible to denationalising beneficiaries, regardless of the consequences, respected colleagues and colleagues. Extortion of swift and unquality decisions will take place and thus satisfy the benefits of individual denationalisation beneficiaries in the event of new obligations on the part of the debtors, in particular the State, which means that the law will entail new public financial costs, not to mention further. And I ask myself this question, or do I ask you, respected government representatives, who are you blackmailing by such a law: Who is the largest denationalising beneficiary in our country? The one that has so far had a favourable 93.7% denationalisation claim. And those who still have appetites, not just on real estate, are also apprehensive after returning to nature. Triglav National Park, Bled, complaint to the European Court of Justice because the RCC is unhappy with the decision of the domestic court. 8 million euros, as we have already mentioned, has received only compensation, despite having already given up compensation a while ago, because the church was unable to use the agricultural school in Maribor. And there's more. Dear colleagues and colleagues, such a law is unfair to Slovenian citizens and citizens, so of course we will not support it in the Lipa Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u180	When we really saw this law in the Emissary Group, we immediately rejected it. And if you have followed our debates and our views on this law, you can attach to it. We ask ourselves, not only what has just been said about new injustices and the question of intents behind such acceleration as the Minister wants, we also ask ourselves whether it is not a constitutional dispute or a distinction between all those denationalisation procedures that have taken place so far and those that, if this law is adopted, you will accept it. There will be unequal treatment here, and here we believe that this is also a matter of constitutional dispute. But to rush with the toughest nuts left in this country - not because someone wouldn't want to save them, but because they were difficult to solve because they were difficult and because there were more procedures to solve just these, more complaints, etc. All of these procedures are now withdrawn, which means that there will be a solution through an instant method that will be avoided by those procedures which are respected by the rule of law. Let's leave all the wrongs behind has already been done, but let's say they were within some legal solution ordered by the law. This law, however, will challenge these legalitys, create inequality, especially new injustices, and benefit people who know. In this context, there is no doubt that we will change our position and reject the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. This law will not affect the decisions of the judicial authorities, to whom it should be returned, and to whom it will not be returned. It's only a matter of time. Those who defend you who hinder the return of property are doing very much to the detriment of taxpayers, for on this basis those who have not received the property at the right time are entitled to compensation and to late interest. It's actually a paradox of all this. Those who have influenced the retention of return work to the detriment of taxpayers and that is important to say. And that's terrible. Mrs Tavš correctly determined how much she would have to pay. She mentioned the church because it wasn't returned at the right time. At that time, property was falling and the state and taxpayers had to cover it. If this were to be granted in one year, in two years, to taxpayers, it would not be necessary to pay anything or up to three years, as I am aware, nothing. That's how it's gonna go into a million dollars' worth. And that's why this marriage is good for taxpayers. And the non-admission of this law and the prevention of return, in one way or another, works to the detriment of taxpayers. That is why I will support this bill, as well as the parliamentary group - because we want to reduce the costs for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u184	Thank you very much. In the Chamber Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will oppose the law, which is bad. Especially because we consider it a pre-election, populist law, at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers. Can anyone understand that the stories that the judicial system failed to complete in the 17 years will be concluded within 3 months. On this we should adopt a different law and say things to all whose applications and demands have not yet been fully resolved, we will return whatever they wish in nature, irrespective of the consequences that this implementation of the law has already had in practice. These are the most difficult, most sensitive cases which the courts have failed to solve and it is precisely for these requirements that additional information, additional arguments for and against and to decide on. I have already warned several times that there is a respected Minister, I stress and warn you once again: we have returned certain assets that have been recovered twice before the war under the mortgage of foreign banks and savings banks, and these people will be reimbursed twice, and the state of Slovenia has not made an effort to obtain a list of those who are foreign citizens, such as English, from Germany's war compensation, and now we are returning them. If we want to be honest with the taxpayer's money, then the courts and the state must, before the final decision is taken from the archives in Belgrade, The Hague and London, have previously obtained information which, of those who were a multiple citizen, has already been returned something and, of course, has not been returned again. But if we look at how the story that Demos started years ago took place in practice, we can see that in the middles from which natural persons were brought back to the water system with which more than 5,000 people were supplied, that hockey, children's and sports playgrounds were returned in nature, because perhaps the local community at the time did not feel that it was important to argue, argue and protest. And now what should be paid by the state with compensation is at the burden of local communities. If we want to get these objects back, I agree to take them back unfairly, but now we as a local community will be able to pay them instead of paying them off with bonds by the state. That is why, of course, we oppose new injustices and the law in its entirety in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Check-in is on. Before we begin, I would like to say that this should be an explanation for the voice and not too much controversy, almost nothing controversial. Mr. Miran Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I would like to be honest with the bill and not to hang things that were wrong, at least in my opinion, wrongly regulated in the Denationalisation Act. However, I believe that this law is completely unnecessary, assuming that no court has so far wanted to work by law and that it must therefore order the judges to resolve what has not been resolved within three months. This is a bad trip to court. Second. It gives us some new rights. And thirdly, it renews procedures that will entail additional work rather than facilitating the procedure. With regard to material obligations and the damage we are doing, one or the other, ladies and gentlemen, it would be good to recall that this government has not accidentally decided that everything in nature should be returned if possible even when it comes to the use of certain facilities for public purposes: schools, culture, science and the like. This decision by the State resulted in compensation for the long-standing non-use of funds being reimbursed in addition to returning in nature. Before that, many administrative authorities acted in accordance with the Denationalisation Act and said that, when an object is used for public benefit, it is not returned in nature but in the form of compensation. This decision has been changed by the government. She explicitly suggested that everything should return to nature if possible, causing additional burden on the government. Everything else is a pure lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u188	If what some have said is a great savings for the state budget, then between the financial and other consequences of the law, it would say that this law is budgetaryly positive, not that it says that it is fiscally neutral. It is not true that this law will have no effect. This law will have very negative effects on public finances. First of all, this law will require that the basis be established within three months, even if there was no basis. And if it's a foundation, then suddenly it's gonna have to be returned. The law will then, in particular with regard to the courts and the Slovenian Compensation Society, require that compensation be established on this newly defined basis. And, of course, the Slovenian compensation company could not protect the public interest and limit the scope of the compensation in the proceedings. And what will be the result? The result will be that the surplus currently in the Slovenian Compensation Society will result in an accelerated recovery of denationalisation procedures that would never have occurred. So, dear colleagues, who say that this law will have positive effects, if that were the case, the government would say something about it. The law will have a lot of negative effects on taxpayers because something that should not return will come back and pay for something that should not be paid. Last but not least, at the end of 2006, when the Government went into such a quick settlement, the amount of compensation for 2007 and 2008 was EUR 8 million. It's just one case. It is known who was the recipient, and it is known which ministers you decided to do so. Now you want this to be done in hundreds of other cases by the end of the term. The damage will be in tens, hundreds of millions of euros. I won't support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Bostian Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In dealing with this marriage, I have heard many times why we are dealing with content. It's a procedural law that dictates certain things, determines some speed and stuff. In my opinion, this is a procedural law that still touches the content of another law, the Denationalization Act. I just can't believe that this government, this country, the people working in the judiciary, will be able to judge within three months something that can't be done in 17 years. Most of the denationalisation claims have been made, the others are harder, and they will need to be cleaned within three months. The law states that the law will not affect the state budget, which discourages those who say we are doing harm to taxpayers. I have nationalization, believe me, I have nothing. And I also don't want anything to do with denationalisation. But if you're going to ask me to do anything to help bring back 1.9 billion tolars to the Roman Catholic Church in Maribor, because you couldn't use the Vrban plato, if you ask me, from my daughter, from my wife, then I'll tell you that I can't support such things. It's not my fault this institution couldn't use it. It's not my daughter's fault and it's not my wife's fault. Maybe it's time to make a mental leap, maybe even an old leap in our head. Only this law, which is absolutely political and which I will not pre-election to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u192	Have a nice hello again. Too many lies and demagogies have been said here now, and my conscience won't leave me alone, so I won't even hear from myself. I have to say that I will support the marriage. However, I will support it because I think that after 17 years of the law on denationalisation and still unsuccessful completion, it is a real time to bring this matter to an end. When I mentioned the lies earlier when you were talking about new beneficiaries. I don't know where you saw the new beneficiaries. Where else is it possible to submit a denationalisation request? No one who has already submitted a request for denationalisation within the legal time limit can submit a new request. And talking about it now is a real lie to my mind. There can be no new beneficiary for denationalisation. Yet today we have heard this again in the National Assembly. I think the thing is, which is also the reason that 17 years of the case has not been resolved. It's just that on a certain side, it's not the right thing to do. And maybe it's right for me to say which side it's not like. The will is not on that side, I'll tell you where the predecessors participated in nationalization. I'd like to draw attention here to another damage that's being done. I think that the mayors or those who work a little more actively in the municipality know how much damage is done to the municipalities, especially because there is no solution. Would be positive or negative would be better than that, than if there was no solution. Many times the congregation could go [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to nationalisation and could carry out its projects if denationalisation was completed. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We continue to explain our vote on our own behalf. Mr. Sok raised his hand. Anyone else? Check-in is on. Mr. Sok, since you've had your word, I'll give you my word. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u194	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support this law, and I really object to this veto because I think the motive for this veto in the State Council is of a political nature. However, I very much agree with what my fellow Member, Koren, has said. I do not think that many Members, including Mr I run at the head, know what we are actually talking about today. Look at the agony of the residents who still live in denationalized houses. The municipality sent them to live in these houses, today because of the process of denationalisation they cannot invest and the roofs over them fall. The mayors come to us all the time asking, "What are you going to do?".. On the one hand, we have our hands tied, we cannot invest in this house investment, not otherwise, but the procedure is not finished. But people who live inside have daily problems. And you say it's not a problem and because of the election, I don't know, you object. Then what solution do you propose? I'd like to ask you that. What solution do you propose? What do we do? Are these our citizens or who is it then? In particular, there are quite a few such houses in our city for which denationalisation procedures should urgently be completed in order not to cause any further damage. And if you mention Verbanska, the damage was caused by Minister Školč and all those who did not want to return at a certain time of this property. And the court has decided today that the situation is such and that these millions must be settled. It is the same in the Fund for Agricultural Lands, where agricultural land should have been returned long ago, and today this fund has to pay compensation claims to some denationalising beneficiaries. In fact, when this is not over, you are causing damage and imposing new burdens on Slovenian taxpayers. That's what they need to be told, and that's the truth of our 17-year-old story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask again. I was very clear, no controversy. Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. The law is certainly unfair and I do not think we should support it in Parliament today, because it is a simple logic that you really understand, because the law speaks of the need to return property in nature at all costs. And that's what's wrong. And even if you talk about congregations, will this make it easier for them to solve the problem? Not at all. If not returned at every price in nature, we could today talk about paying compensation for what cannot be resolved by legal proceedings in due course. And just returning in nature is actually the biggest problem with that. To those who live in these buildings, to those who want to plan development, and not least to the state. But here it doesn't really matter to you whether something is legal or not, it has to be returned, but it doesn't matter what the consequences are. And these are the solutions that we really do not deserve in Slovenia and certainly do not help us to develop, but actually help the one who will get so much money that he will actually get compensation, and the congregation, if it wants to regulate this facility, will be able to buy it anyway, and will pay twice for something that would not even have to be returned in nature. These solutions, which we have in this law, are returned at all costs in nature, are truly non-life, will also have major financial consequences and I do not know why we should therefore conclude denationalisation in this way, because the fact is that this will not end. The fact is that new cases will be opened. And logic, as you say, there are no new beneficiaries. If you weren't justified yesterday, you'll be justified under this law. So it is a new obligation and a new beneficiary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u198	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! We have already talked a lot about this law at the meetings of the Committee on Internal Policy, and it has already shown exactly what the applicant's secret intentions are. It is not a system law, it is not a correction of injustices, and it is probably not a desire to cause new injustices. But the desire to resolve matters that, in fact, the courts have so far been unable to resolve with all their knowledge and efforts, is very quick. Right across the line. In fact, it would be best if these procedures were concluded by returning everything anyone demanded. This is also a basic objective. Of course, this does not take into account that all applications are not necessarily justified. That's left in the back somewhere. Regrettably, the proposaler was behind him with swallowing, swallowing. And he did not write this, this bill was not written by Mr Sturm himself, but was very well assisted by Gargatois and Pantagrel, a meal and a snack. That's why I won't support this marriage. If not, not all three authors are listed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with those who claim that the basic error was made when the Denationalisation Act was actually adopted to the extent it was adopted. I can't agree to a solution in such a way that the procedures are not solved and we solve them in a way that brings everything back. It's just not possible. And when we talk about municipalities, in investment plans, municipalities are faced with problems where individual parcels have been returned to the centre of the city, which are now needed for the purpose of development, probably at high prices, because they are actually overestimated. And when we say there are no new beneficiaries. Yes, but what is different than a new beneficiary if, after the previous one, someone submits a request to the applicable law and is not justified and after that, they will find that it is justified and will be returned. These are new applications and these requests will be addressed in this way by the State. When we talk about beneficiaries without a condition of reciprocity, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have a permanent residence abroad become citizens if they are born in Slovenia alone or their ancestors. This is a new group of people who will be able to justify their denationalisation requirements. And we're actually spreading things and we have to admit it, we want it or we don't want it. After 1990, it was a little bit smaller, and after 1990 it was established with us in December and we have Miklavž, we have Santa Claus, we have Santa Claus, so these three who are willing to give children a lot, of course, if we are looking at a little fairy tale, but they are not nearly as generous as a generous country in the event of the return of denationalisation property.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac. Procedural question?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u202	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Since we are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u203	Yes or no? Is that why you're calling?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u204	Yes, procedurally, otherwise it doesn't belong to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u205	I know that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u206	Well, great. We both know that. In view of the fact that we have heard in some of the explanations of the law advocates that there may be damage to the taxpayer's money, I would ask you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and on behalf of the Lipa Group, to allow us a 30-minute recess before the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u207	Anybody else want to explain their voice? I guess not. Your application has been granted. 30 minutes' rest. We'll resume at 5 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u208	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. Does the representative of the Lip Group want a word, given that you requested a recess? Please, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u209	Thank you for your word, Madam President. There's not another break. All those of you who have been in this house for three and a half years, you know that, so such callers only point to your ignorance. But I'm going to go to what we discussed. Some observations were made on this issue to all those who do not support this law, for example, that we are harming taxpayers because compensation to beneficiaries under this law or under the law on denationalisation will increase. Therefore, the question is a legitimate one, respected coalition colleagues, why you did not come with this law in 2004 and would save taxpayers three years' interest. Everything else is deceiving, subversive deceiving. The law is politically appropriate before the elections for voters on your side. And the reports that have been flying - and we have also re-branded this in these 30 minutes - both to opposition MPs, who do not support the law, as well as to colleagues of the Party, so that the circle of beneficiaries does not expand. See, in Article 2 of this Law - I believe that many of you have failed to reach Article 2, because Article 1 is already complicated enough to say that reciprocity is being abolished. And this reciprocity allows for some new beneficiaries. I believe you don't want to do this, and you can't understand it, but these are the facts. And regardless of this half-time break in the Lipa Group, we will not support the law and we will support the veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u210	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 21. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda - questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of the Member, Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Mr Saš Pečet's question on the response to the behaviour of the Republic of Croatia. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 21, against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of Mr Zmega Jelinčič Trimenite, on the question of ensuring the sovereignty of the Slovenian territory by neighbouring countries. We're voting. There were 63 votes in favour of 14 and 44. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Majde Potrat will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, to the question of mags. Majde Potrat concerning the signing of an agreement between the Government and NGOs. In your own name, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u211	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I expect you to support the proposal for a debate on the response of Minister Virant to my question of the mission, which is related to the conclusion of an agreement between the Government and non-governmental organisations. This government received from the legacy a previous prepared agreement on cooperation between NGOs and the Government. On 13 June 2005, I first asked the Government what was going on with this agreement. Since then, I have always asked the Government because, as a Member or President of the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I am facing comments, complaints by NGOs about discriminatory treatment of NGOs in individual calls, dissatisfaction with the distribution of funds and could also list them. That's why I'm asking Minister Virant, over and over again, what's the deal? Three analyses on the non-governmental sector have been carried out, ensuring that more funds have been received while not saying that a number of competences have been transferred to non-governmental organisations. However, when opposition Members and Members expected such relations between the government and non-governmental organisations to be regulated by law, the attempts were always rejected. Finally, the Ombudsman in her report called for the adoption of a legal obligation to ensure that all those laws where non-governmental organisations are required to cooperate should also be prescribed by law. It's all against the wall, so I think that the debate on these issues would be absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u212	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 19 to 45. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Saš Pečet, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for the Economy of Mags. Andrej Visiak on Mr Saš Pečet's question on the impact of privatisation. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, for 19, against 46. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Bojan Kontić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy of Mags. Mr Andrej Viszak asked Mr Bojan Kontić about the Hempower Plant Šostanj. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 22 to 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Boštjan Zagorec, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for the Economy of Mags. Andrej Visiak asked Mr Boštjan Zagorec about a plan to privatise state property. Mr Zagorac, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u213	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The sale plan also includes Paloma Sweet Top, which is the Paloma you used to watch on television and two very suitable pigeons raced through commercials and you all took toilet paper and handkerchiefs from it. Then this Paloma somehow got in trouble. And the terrible fact is that the Minister has told me that the state has no direct share in Paloma and is therefore not responsible for it. I ask why it was in this decision if the state does not have a stake. And second question, Kad and the Court own 70.94% of Paloma d.d. If the state does not have a direct share, whose share is Kad Sud? Mine, yours and the people. Therefore, such deception simply does not have a case in this country. The people working in this company have about 500 euros in salaries. Mr President, I would be very happy if you would calm down some of the industrious ones who are not interested in working wages so that they can continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u214	I agree. Here you go, Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u215	Thank you, Mr Vice President, for your intervention. Today, employees or people working in Paloma have about EUR 500 net salary. The leadership of this company, which is state-owned, Mr Marin, Mrs Pergareva, is slightly over 10,000 euros in wages. If this is a rational spending of state money, then I don't know what it is. Someone from the administration also may have lied about his education, which means that the sales plan under which a member of the administration or director of the administration is signed is invalid. And that harms the reputation of the state, state property, and anything else. Such people simply do not need and should not have such people in state-owned enterprises. And if you don't agree to talk about this today, even though the finance minister says it's his child, Mrs. Pergareva has nothing to do with him, and she calls her "my girl" who will arrange this story - here I and the people who live there can't believe that there is no connection between Paloma and the finance minister. It just seems to me that if we want to take care of anything, let's take care of a company owned by the people who live in this country. Therefore, I think it is right that we hear the legitimate reasons why such an undertaking should be sold by the Minister of Economic Affairs to hear the reasons why such a company should not be sold out but be exhausted by the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u216	Thank you very much. We're voting. There were 67 votes in favour and 22 in favour against 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Matija Slavinca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for the Economy of Mags. Mr Andrej Visiak asked Member Mitja Slavinc about the measures taken to assist labour-intensive companies. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 19 to 45. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Boruta Saiovica will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr. Lovra Šturm, to the question of mags. Boruta Saiovica related to the balance of the return on investments in the telecommunications network. Mr. Mag. You have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Chairman. Of course, when we talked about the procedures for repossession of seized property, there are almost a thousand of the most demanding procedures, but it is, of course, more than forty thousand beneficiaries who, despite promises to receive funds in November 2006, have not received funds in 2008 at least in the majority of those who have invested through the municipalities, through telephone committees and through local communities. The reason is that the procedures are in the state's defences and there is no settlement. And given that we have inflation in our country for about 6% a year there, then it means that the average share that people will get about 300 euros is that the country takes away about eighteen to twenty euros from each of these beneficiaries every year. I therefore appeal once again to the distinguished Minister to strengthen the defences with staff and experts and to speed up these procedures. But perhaps it would not be too much if, before the elections, the time was sufficient, some law on the rapid process of completing the return to the telecommunications network and we passed the law that within three months of the adoption of this law, all people would get back what they have tabled. It'd be about time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok on behalf of the delegation? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u219	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to say that we will not support this proposal. However, due to objective information to the public, of course, I must say that in those municipalities where the documentation was arranged and where the municipalities or, if you like, local communities did what they had to do under this law and what they had to submit to the public defence, I do not know whether they did so in the Market or not, in those municipalities proceedings have been initiated. In those municipalities, investors in this telecommunications network were also reimbursed. However, some congregations have, of course, submitted applications, documentation for public defences, which have not been backed up by actual accounts. There's something like that. And there are these problems that my fellow Member, Saiovic, is talking about. I tell your behavior and the general public that this problem is resolved wherever it is properly prepared at this point. I don't know what kind of sum these funds are returned to, but there are a lot of them. Where that is not the case, they are clearing up this situation through public defence. I know a few things like that. There may also have been some reason why they simply wanted to gain something that they were not good at in the congregation. Because by law, if it is not paid to investors, it remains in the budget of the congregation itself. Perhaps they also had such desires and approached them in this way. It is, of course, right for the public defence to clear this up, but not to immediately agree to some enormous sums that are expected from somewhere. In one of our nearby municipalities, where I come from, they want, say, municipalities to have, after each investor, 8,000 euro in return. Of course, they cannot also demonstrate the eligibility of such high investment with the corresponding accounts. When you ask and ask this as a proposal to discuss this in the National Assembly, it would be right, Comrade Saiovic, to tell you where the reasons are for not actually running these matters in your municipality. I'll say it again. It does not seem necessary to impose this burden on the entire National Assembly and that as far as most public defences are concerned, and to carry out their task. At least for the northwest of Slovenia, I can say so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I would point out once again that there is no replica in this part and that the one mentioned cannot react to your performance. However, Mr. Saiovic, if you wanted a replica, please apply again. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. The testimony of some Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Coalition, which adopted this law for the return of investments in the public telecommunications network, is unjustifiable. In fact, the Liberal Democracy and then the Minister, current colleague Dr. Gantar, who kept the law in his drawer and refused to do anything in this area, meant that at least 300% of what they received back today was taken from the citizens. Today, as colleague Sok has already said, where the mayors and the municipalities have prepared it, they get it. However, it is true that some mayors and municipalities have prepared this well and that the State's defence has not made a settlement with citizens or with local communities, which means that they are sitting in such defence cities such state-level defenders who have no interest in doing so, as before, the Liberal Democracy and the United List have no intention of doing so and returning it to the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u222	Mr. Pukšič, you did not say what you would do with the vote. Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Chairman. I can see that I opened up after the debates and after the reaction the real question, and obviously there is no reason not to discuss it. I regret, however, that those Members who today speak one on Tuesday, when Mr Sturm answered my question and acknowledged the delays in the defence, admitted the problem, said that they preferred individual requests, because collective requests through municipalities, local communities and village committees require more time and more work, are in checkouts. And in Gorenjska, all 18 municipalities of Gorenje are waiting for the collective communities to take their turn in court. However, I see from the debate that this money is obviously also shared with yours and ours under the auspices of the Ministry and with the Office of the Defence. That where apparently more of our own, those congregations have already received funds, while others have been deprived of that right, which is yet another proof of the need to hold a discussion and discuss it. However, as far as the claims are concerned, I think that we have prepared only all local communities and municipalities in accordance with the law, even if we have behaved in this way in the judiciary covered by the Ministry of Justice. In response, the Minister himself admitted to me that he would make an effort to speed up the defence, to be aware of the problems, but it is up to us to hold a debate and agree on how to return the funds to the people justifiably invested, as is necessary. Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of the debate being held.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u225	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the Lipa Group, we will support the proposal of our esteemed colleague Saiovic. Two of the coalition members have already joined the debate, which just proves that they would be welcome for all 90 Members, not to follow instructions to anyone in special offices. However, something is wrong and something needs to be discussed. I believe that Mr Pukšič agrees with me, as well as Mr Sok, given that you have applied and given some reasons, I believe that they do not have these powers on behalf of the Minister. I therefore believe that they will be happy to support the proposal for an extended debate and then to tell and enlighten all 90 Members with their knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Please. Procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u227	Mr President, I will not abuse the procedural proposal, as someone has done many times before me, but because you have interrupted me 40 seconds before the time is up and you have not allowed me to say how I am going to vote, I will not support my proposal from my colleague Saiovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u228	Thank you very much. I considered this to be an additional explanation for the vote. Re-applications for explanations of vote on their own behalf. Mr. Martin Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u229	Thank you for your word. I must say, I will not support the proposal. I see no reason for the Minister of Justice here in the National Assembly to explain to 90 Members or to justify why some local communities have not yet received funding. We passed the law in the National Assembly. We have four amendments to it so that procedures can run smoothly today. I must say that legislation has drawn up the Ministry of the Economy and this has also included those things that have in the past made it impossible for this money to be returned to the beneficiaries. Those congregations that have prepared the relevant documentation and submitted it to the Office of Defence have also received settlement contracts from the Office, the municipalities have signed contracts, you know that it goes to the Court of Justice, and the Court has also ordered money to the municipalities within a certain period of time. There are also time limits in the law, by which time it was necessary to do so. Those who have done so see no difficulty in not receiving financial resources. We solved the matter in the congregation of Rogatec, and all the beneficiaries received the funds. If anyone needs any instruction, of course, I must say, it is not free, we give it to the congregation of Rogatec.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u230	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, for 18, for 41. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Miran Potrč, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Dragutin Matej, Minister of the Interior and Minister of Justice, Dr Lovra Šturm, to Mr Miran Potrč's question on confidential documents and information. Mr Potch, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u231	Thank you very much. I would only remind you that I firmly believe that the question and the answer is also up-to-date because the Minister of Justice has called on the State Prosecutor's Office to communicate what is happening in the State Prosecutor's Group for Special Purposes. My warning, however, was that in the prosecution, in the judiciary and perhaps even in the police, things are happening that allow work to not be done in good quality and I think we are all interested, including Minister Sturm, in the way relations look in these, for us so important, institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u232	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 22 to 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Geza Juban, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Foreign Minister, Dr Dimitri Rupl, to Mr Gez Jubán's question on border events at Muri. Mr Juban on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I hope that this proposal will receive my support because many Members of the coalition have also warned the Government and the National Assembly that something unusual is going on at the border with Croatia. And one of these is the problem, as in the lower part of Dragonja, the problem with Mura, where things happen when Croats themselves move the border, in the part where there is an absolute Slovenian territory at this point also under all agreements, freezing acts and non-aggression and similar and moving the border also in the part where the Croatian cadaster is on our side, but it has been agreed that the temporary border on Mura and Croatia is taking action where it is clear that they want to move the border to a cadastra, which is, not only for the land on our side and the land owners, extremely unpleasant, but also for the people who are inhabited in this area. I ask for support and that we also discuss this subject in this National Assembly as many people have wanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, please. On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u235	In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u236	In your own name, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u237	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I myself will support the proposal of your respected colleague Juban. The fact is that Croatia, with its policy, although we are more or less Members informed only about what is happening in the far south of our country, I will say at the border with Draganja, do the same and do the same in Prekmurje. There, too, the border continues to be forced and to the aggression of Croatia, despite the fact that the Slovenian territory is sovereign and untouchable under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I am very interested, so it was right to have a debate on this subject, so that the Government or representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would tell us what they thought to do about this issue, but not that somehow under the auspices of the Government sending someone who has Easter syndrome has the feeling that they have to paint every stone they see to the border. Such syndromes and such dyeing do not in any way depreciate or bring any good or good to people and not to the country of the Republic of Slovenia itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u238	We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, for 25, for 35. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mitja Slavinc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Janez Słobnik to the question of Mr Mitja Slavinc on the implementation of the project on coherent regional development. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 22 to 44. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the next proposal for a decision. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a debate on Mr Dragutin Matei's reply to Mr Sreč Friend's question on the implementation of border control in Slovenian territory. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 18 to 46. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. With regard to the proposal by Mr Dusan Kumr, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Dusan Kumr, Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, on Mr Dušan Kumr's question on taking account of the student and other work during the working period. Mr. Kumer, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u239	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. The last government appointment of the Director of the Securities Market Agency is not only controversial but also extremely unprincipled and discriminatory. For two reasons. The first reason is given by the other candidates who applied and met the conditions, and secondly, it is a discriminatory attitude towards all civil servants and I will later say why. The appointed does not meet the basic tendering conditions, these are the work experience prescribed by the law and is strict for 10 years. The explanation was that his student work was taken into account. That is how your children are already gaining work experience when they are employed in a state administration. After the last few days, you also have the opportunity to see that the person who has been appointed has also been involved in a controversial business in the Exchange, which is to be supervised by this new function. And here's another problem I didn't put to Minister Virant at the time. The third reason is that Minister Virant himself said that he could not answer my question decisively because the Commission was led by the Secretary of the Government, who was not present at the time and did not know what they were talking about. So I think that's why we should talk about this more broadly in the National Assembly. It is simply double criteria, if it is ours and does not meet the conditions, look through his fingers, but if it is not ours and meets the conditions, calls are repeated. And in this case, the same thing happened. I would remind you that it is not far back, I think that in 2006, in the same case in Celje, the director of the municipal administration, due to the failure to comply with the tender conditions that she did not have, is today, after two or three years, the mayor of the municipality, for abuse and is the subject of judicial proceedings. But it's the exact same thing. It did not fulfil its working experience, working time as prescribed by the invitation to tender. I therefore suggest that you support this proposal and that we speak more broadly about whether public servants will also have the recognised period of traineeship prescribed by the law, and today this same government is not taking into account the same government and is legally prescribed for progress.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u240	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 39. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with Mrs Lovtijar Bebler's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr Lovr Šturm, to Mrs Darje Lavtizar Bebler's question on the effects of changes and the addition of laws on justice. Mrs. Bebler, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u241	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In my question to Mr Sturm, the Minister for Justice, I have drawn attention to the problem we have been facing recently. And this is the problem of the inflation of the legislation that comes from the Ministry of Justice, which he directs. In this mandate, I have already received 56 laws from his Ministry of Justice in the National Assembly for the legislative procedure. Only at this and future meeting of the National Assembly will we discuss 16 laws coming from his ministry. Among them are some very difficult and complicated laws, such as to just mention the Penal Code. Many of these laws are thus assessed by us, and thus by the profession, they are an additional new burden on the courts. Although the Minister of Justice is always saying how successful he is in this area, that backlogs in the courts are falling and that the Lukenda programme is successful. However, the results may also be different, especially if all the laws we are currently discussing come into force. I see the problem that, through this inflation of legislation, the rule of law is essentially destabilizing and that the rule of law in our country is destabilizing. In the field of justice, it can be found that the Ministry or the Ministry, with its proposals and measures, has already caused very much damage. Let me just remind you that for the first time in the history of this country, there has been a situation where the judiciary is, so to speak, the entire time before the decision or even the strike. Now the Minister of Justice has gone to the lawyers, who are protesting these grave interventions into the independence and autonomy of the lawyers and, as we hear, are leaving the prosecutions alone. All this problem and all this situation is apparently to be remedied by the increasing repression offered by Minister Sturm through his legislation here. I think we are in a very serious situation with regard to the rule of law in Slovenia, and that six months, not even six months before, we are facing these situations in the national elections. Therefore, it would be useful to have a discussion in the National Assembly in order to slow down the pace of the adoption of these laws and, nevertheless, to make time for these serious acts of marriage into serious legislative matter but to have a few more reflections later on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Mr Kovacič, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The Minister responded very clearly to the question of the Member State of Bebler. This is certainly not a rule-inflation that is dealt with and adopted in the National Assembly, but it is a matter of the fact that this ministry has actually inherited a very irregular and uncoordinated state of affairs in this mandate. And that took a lot of work. And within this work, quite a lot of energy had to be invested in the preparation of legislation, which unfortunately had not been prepared and adopted in the previous period. And the simple number of laws dealt with in this area in the National Assembly are precisely the result of the fact that the situation was not as it should have been when the Ministry took over its mandate. And nothing else. So I don't see any need to talk about something that isn't. It is not a catastrophic situation as it tries to show itself, but it is simply that much work is done, because once this work has been taken over, the situation has been messy and therefore the ministry has had to put so much work into place and as a result we have more work in Parliament by adopting the legislation that is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Mr Sok, on behalf of the NSI Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u245	Thank you very much. We will not support the colleague's proposal in New Slovenia. Many of the laws proposed by the Ministry of Justice, Minister Lovro Šturm, to the National Assembly, are largely an improvement, and cannot be a criticism of the work of the Ministry. We'd have understood sooner that it should be a compliment. We understand, however, that some want everything to remain the way it was, a lot in the field of justice in the past very unfair, for a lot of people in this country. And now that these laws are changing, in New Slovenia we actually know that some fellow SD Members, who are the successors of a party that has enforced such legislation, do not, of course, "feed". As far as departures from the ranks of prosecutors are concerned or, if you want, from the types of judges or other services in this area, it is so possible for anyone in a democratic country to choose how long they will work in a job and decide for themselves. If he decides that he will be more successful in another job, that he will be better suited there, of course he can go. No one has the right to stop him. And even in New Slovenia, we don't know why we should stop them if they want to go. There's a lot of people waiting and wanting jobs in the D.A.'s office. And it's not a profession a man can't learn if he's willing and willing. However, as far as I am concerned, I do not know, some of the repression that you have always stressed through the adoption of this legislation is more or less coordinated with the principles of the European Union. Are you then saying that the European Union is a country based on repression, or are you saying that we are adopting different legislation in Slovenia than it is within the European Union? But it is true that at the time of your predecessor's reign, we had a great deal of repression in this country. That's right. And this repression has fueled many people's fear into their bones in such a way that they still fear him today. That's actually the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bebler's own name, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u247	Thank you very much. I cannot replicate those who have just spoken, so I cannot express any concern because some are still afraid today. But it's good. However, I must argue that everything was not regulated in the field of justice in the previous mandate. That's not true. Let me remind my colleagues that, just in the previous term, the National Assembly has many laws because of its obligation to bring them into line with European Union law, it has been accepted and it is by no means possible to say that the situation in this area has been unregulated. Of course, it cannot be argued that there was no need for a number of laws to be amended in this mandate. We can only be clear about this. All I am protesting is that in such an easy and sophisticated way, amendments to legislation that is fundamental to the field of justice and the field of the realization and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms are being made. And through this legislation, we have also found this yesterday, it actually strengthens the repression of our society and we wonder if this is really necessary here in our society today. I and many of my colleagues are convinced that this is not necessary, so we also want to discuss this in order to stop this dimension of the Minister and the Ministry of Justice just a few months before the elections, because, as our colleague once said, it is unhygienic that in recent months before the elections such a fundamental and difficult legislation with such serious consequences is being adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Potts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues who are vehemently but not knowingly speaking about this area of legislation would remind us that all the laws we have adopted and amended in this mandate, and most of the time they have changed, have been adopted into independent independent Slovenia. None of these laws have any bearing on the previous regime, whether it was completely unacceptable or at any time good. Second. It is right to say that our party has never had a minister of justice and that it has been in the government for half the term of office and half the mandate of the opposition. And that many of you today who say what was wrong were in the coalition and also had justice ministers. Therefore, such flat-rate assessments do not benefit anyone, only point to this deep ignorance and the desire to politicise the situation. And since there are different assessments of what was necessary and what was not, it would be correct for all of us to be prepared to discuss the Minister's response, to adopt an open scene, to say each of our arguments, to determine whether 54 of the laws that the Minister had tabled were indeed necessary, whether it was really necessary that these laws were changed every six months, and then on the points that were adopted six months ago, and then subsequently amended. There are a lot of questions that I would like to discuss, and I expect you to support Mrs Lovtijar Bebler's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacic has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u251	Thank you very much, for yourself. I won't support the proposal. But I would also explain this by saying that it seems to me that Mr Potrč and his thinkers do not have a monopoly on knowledge, when they so easily read to all others ignorance. Just if this knowledge existed, then the situation when this ministry took over the mandate would not be so irregular and uncoordinated that there is now so much work and so much more law-making that we then adopt. But I still have to draw back the last thought when I said it was all out of order and out of line. No, no, no. That's an overstatement. It wasn't all messy and uncoordinated. But there was a lot of disorderly and uncoordinated. I can tell you in concrete terms. Not only was there a lot of judicial backlogs inherited. I think that's one of the key reasons why so many new laws are needed. So, a lot of judicial backlogs took quick action. And rapid action also means that novels have been put in, which have contributed to the decline in judicial backlogs. Today's situation is significantly better than when this government assumed its mandate. Of course, there was a lot of disorderly and uncoordinated things that were inherited that needed to be resolved in addition to judicial backlogs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u253	Thank you, Mr. President. I would agree with this proposal from my colleague Beblereva when she wants to discuss also the eyewitnesses who are flying to the Minister of Justice, Dr Lovr Šturm, on his hyperactivity, which I understand in a positive sense. But look. At this point, we are actually at a stage where so many and so many laws have been introduced into the national assembly procedure. What exactly do we do now? I suggest that this procedure goes forward, that you reject these laws. You will come with your suggestions and thus improve the Slovenian judicial system. And from all this, I cannot support this proposal because it is, in fact, confused with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Now there's a little too many of you. That's why I'm opening the application. Mr. Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u255	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll be very brief. I'm going to correct some of you who have been discussing so much back about what's inherited and what's not. I would warn you all together when you read to SD or ZLSD this official function that we have now fallen together SDS after the duration of the coalition to the fifth place and that there are four other parties ahead of us and the SDS. And one of those who has a longer life is NSI or its predecessor, SKD. So when you talk about who is responsible for something in these seventeen years, be precise. There are no just and unjust laws. They're all alone. Explanation of voice. Sure. Can I explain?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u256	I have to be consistent and let go, including Mr. Kumr to the end. Because I warned you at the beginning of all these votes, what is the explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u257	I'm just gonna say one more thing. To come up with this number of corrections just before the elections, six months before the elections and even with a basic law, that's the Penal Code, something really doesn't work. Even these three years in this ministry things were not "respected" that it took three years to wait for this inflation to take place, with this hyper-white book to be carried out by June. So that even these three years and a half we can have a critical view of the work of the Justice Ministry and the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u259	The question that was here, what to do. Take a break. Let us have a debate in the National Assembly on the question of the Member. We hear the arguments of the profession, which clearly says, if you are changing the entire legal order for the functioning of the judiciary, then this will undoubtedly affect destabilisation and the reduction of legal certainty. Judges, prosecutors need to get ready. Not to mention, of course, that the same profession says that laws are handwritten. I was talking about this yesterday under one law about - I don't know - what tariffs. It is not at all about adapting to the European acquis. It's some kind of acknowledgment of the work of the German legal order. Did we join anywhere? Therefore, of course, the only wise, respected leader of the New Slovenia Group, what to do, take a break!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u261	Thank you for your word. First of all, I have to say, not all laws are like that. It is said to be accepted in Slovenia alone that this would be an argument that there is no need to change them, although that is not the point for me. I think we've been saying that we also have a bill on judicial fees, which is from 1978. As far as I know, there was no independent Slovenia at the time. I have one more thing to say. I think that the laws that have been tabled are good and that much work has been done, including many years of work, in the preparation of this law. The biggest mistake we'd make right now would be taking a break. By the way, has our term of office ended? Are taxpayers paying these few months for our break? Please! Are we so responsible to do the work that has already been done?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u263	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. However, we discussed this issue yesterday in the context of the debate. I will, of course, support the proposal of the esteemed colleague Darje Lovtišar Bebler. This is because I have experience with the Internal Policy Committee. And we know roughly how many of these products are coming from the Ministry of Justice, how many are being corrected, how many are being corrected. Interestingly, even the government's legal service sends signals, of course, about how these matters are inconvenient and poorly prepared. Not to speak of the Law Service of the National Assembly, which, of course, - I will say so - in one third of the best draft laws it corrects individual articles. Of course, in most cases, the percentage of these adjustments moves there between seventy and eighty, sometimes even over. It is also interesting, of course, that after a law or amendment has been adopted, in a month or two, we will receive a readjustment that is actually linked to previously rejected amendments or something like that. It is, therefore, a complete confusion and, above all, a failure to trap those who will, of course, eventually come into a position of decision. To talk about this, of course, that Slovenia did not even try to be legally regulated and the rule of law until Minister Šturm arrived, but of course it is a complete nonsense. Only now are things that really smell of unconstitutionality, of inhumaneness and, above all, of course, of course behind what Mr Sturm says to swear to the Constitution, that there is another will over the Constitution. That's why I'm gonna support it. But let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u264	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. Who? Mr. Puksich. I've only seen one hand. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I will not support my fellow Member in her proposal. For a simple reason, since legislation in the judicial field is really necessary, there was a real need to do a lot of things and there was a lot of wrong. If Comrade Potts and others laugh about it, they can probably laugh at themselves and laugh at each other in a mustache. Since 1992, 1994, when you were in the government and when Minister Meta Zupančič was at the time, they have changed the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, which is the original sin for today's tycoon, corruption, theft and a few rich individuals in this country. So that they could not be convicted or convicted, both Uroš Aljančič and Pavel Koder. However, Judge Šubic did not write this judgment. He did not, however, write because it was you that some of the Members who are sitting here today changed the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, which allowed this country's centuries-old places. Mr. Run! That's not something to laugh about! That's to cry!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u266	Thank you. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. Nineteen, 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Boruta Saiovica will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, to the question of mags. Boruta Saiovica in connection with the arrangement of the monument of State importance. Mr. Saiovic. Here you go! You have an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Monuments of national importance are important for each country. However, if the Mathausen camp is the only concentration camp on the ground of today's Slovenia during the occupation, the story is particularly important. Because of this story and the suffering of the Slovenians, the French, the Poles, and the Russians, of course, a long and respectable cooperation has also developed. I must say that now that foreigners from other countries are coming through the tunnel in Love and see the situation there, they are not most pleased with this. And, of course, I have appealed to Minister Vask Simoniti to pay more attention to this state monument, more resources, so that this year, when we are President of the European Union, there will, of course, be such an event as is appropriate. For after this concern to the heritage of the concentration camp, we will obviously be overtaken by the neighbors of the Austrians, who have kept this story of the concentration camp secret for more than forty years. And also on the proposal to build a memorial room for this camp in the facility on the border plateau, where the customs office and the police station used to be. That's what they say at the very location where these tragic bloody events took place. I don't think the minister has a positive response. That is why I think that in this window and in one of the mirrors of Slovenia it is necessary to hold a debate in the National Assembly and to put the situation in the camp itself in order. Otherwise, we will also be forced to inform the French Embassy and doubtless ask for the opinion of Foreign Minister Dimitri Ruple, what he will say to his European colleagues during the presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u268	Thank you. We're voting. I'm calling off the vote. Mr. Skolcz, I ask you to raise your hand a little earlier, not when I press. Here you go. Explanation in personal name.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, there was no problem with voting as long as the meeting was chaired by Mr Vice-President. He took enough time to look at it. But it doesn't even matter. Thank you for giving me your word. I would like to remind this assembly that it did not appear that the Minister would be present at this meeting with all his strength at the time of the question raised by Comrade Saiovic. That is why I think it is good to give him another chance to answer the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u270	Thank you. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 19 votes against 43. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Szvikla will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to the question of mags. Milana M. Szvikla on the financial aspects of the introduction of vinjets into the tolling system. Explanation of voice. Mr. Squeakle, please! On behalf of the House of Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Since, of course, Tuesday was an empty hall, let me explain that there are fundamental reasons why we need to discuss the Minister of Finance's response to the fact that the Minister of Finance himself said that we will be discussing this almost in the National Assembly. And I asked the Minister of Finance what document does the Government have that two and a half years after the publication on 15 April 2005 of the document of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which said that the introduction of vignettes for the transitional period is not - I stress - economically justified. What alternative document do the Government and the Minister of Finance have? Of course he didn't answer that question. Except he said the aliens would pay for it. Slovenia introduced the Schengen border a few months ago. Looks like we're about to introduce a wine border instead of Schengen. If it is true that in two and a half years the situation has changed so that the tolling system can be transformed into a system of vineyards, and if you have decided if the government decides that someone who - say - drives 120, 130 kilometers per hour over a toll station will be paid 1,100, 1,200 euros per year. If you have decided to cut the price from €1,200 to €55 by 19 times, I suggest we discuss why we would not lower the price to nothing, why would I pay anything. Because if it's so easy for foreigners to pay - and these foreigners to be vignettes for 3 million - why shouldn't Slovenians drive on highways for free and pay only foreigners? And we need to discuss this. There is no study. The Minister of Finance couldn't tell me what this study was. This study, however, is fundamental because Dars received several billion guarantees from the Slovenian state, from the Slovenian National Assembly. And if Dars can't show the appropriate height of the tolls, the guarantees will fall. And then, of course, in the National Assembly, we will have to provide money in the budgets to pay off the funds spent. Therefore, I think it would be good for us to discuss this in the National Assembly before the Government comes with changes to the law and to do so at the next meeting in the presence of the Minister of Finance. Probably the Minister of Transport, too. Even the President of the Government obviously knows something about this, given how he responded to Mr Tank, and we face it. Let them put the numbers on the table and find out how, after two and a half years, the introduction of vignettes for a transitional period is economically justified if there is still a document that says it is not economically justified. The main economist of the government, Dr. Janez Šuštersič, has been signed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u272	Thank you. I see a hand to explain the voice. Mr. Zagorac, please. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u273	In your own name, if you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u274	In your name, yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u275	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to support my colleague's proposal for Squeak. I don't think there's gonna be a hero in this house among the MPs who'll allow it when the government comes with the Toll System Act on so-called vineyards, and he'll hope to press the "against" button. After all, it costs me, say, to drive from Maribor to Ljubljana weekly. I would be very happy if you would tell Mr Jerovsk that he allows me to present my position or I can speak quite a bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u276	That's right. Please, only Mr. Zagorac has the floor. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u277	Thank you. Dear Mr. President! It costs me 55 euros a week to drive to Ljubljana. Now it's gonna cost me a year. In this sense, I thank both the Government and the Minister, but one loss of 48 weeks times 55 euros per driver will arise. This loss will have to be covered from somewhere. It's a two-year transition. I would really like to know, and the Minister of Finance, when I listened to the answer to my colleague's question, was very skeptical. And it would be wise to discuss this before the marriage comes. And another thing I'd like to say in terms of vignettes. More of these laws I think we can expect before the elections. I think they'll be welcome for the people, too. But above all, one thing is fact. Any one of us has a lot to say about budget surplus. The fact is, the eggs and the bread are irritable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u278	Thank you. Since there are several deadlines, I am opening an application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. And please, everyone who wants to do this, sign up. Mr. Bones, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u279	I think that this debate that the Government should further explain the proposed system is fully depressed. I think that the representatives who requested this have, by their political authority in the previous term, actually cooked up the system that we now have. They built highways from public funds. So, from the state guarantee and artificially made over Dars and collecting tolls of extra taxes. Let's be clear. And this thing is being dragged into the present. This government is trying to solve this thing in some way and to put a fairer burden on people who use the highway every day, but we are not far away from paying the toll. I'll do worse. But I don't object to this solution, because I think it's a little more fair. It does not seem fair to me, however, that some who are existentially obliged to pay tolls every day and cost them very much are, therefore, financially very, very much hit. I think it's some kind of move. But I think it's a little late. I myself agree to pick up the use of motorways in registration of a vehicle, differentiated according to how far and how far the highway is used. This would be consistent - in my opinion - the system in the long term. But the problem now is to fix this because the case was already imported in the previous term. Therefore, I think that the debate is, in particular, harmful in terms of de-placing and politicisation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u280	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u281	Thank you for your word. Look. Those who have experienced only once the way we have experienced in Gorenjska every summer, that tourists, foreigners, domestic children carry them out of cars, watered them in that heat. Whoever was watching how many hours it got lost in front of those toll stations was just one. Do you know how many there are in Slovenia?Oh, my God! Whoever watched how many lost hours were waiting in endless columns, then can only assess what the introduction of vignettes really means. And all such partial proposals, of course, highlight only one small part, and usually also from one very clear point of view, which the gentleman who raised this question also made very clear. But in its entirety, the current tolling system was, for the first time - unfair, secondly - extremely unorganic. The construction of the toll stations itself has taken a huge amount of the best land. In addition, it mentioned the ecological burden of the environment due to all those waiting and waiting there, especially in summer peaks, after the war in the Balkans ended and traffic in the north-south again grew stronger from year to year. And there was one way to cut this thing. And thank God that one solution has been found that is feasible, feasible and that at the same time does not mean any additional traps for all those who finance the construction of the highway, because calculations show that we can even gain more in this way than we have acquired with the current toll system.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u282	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u283	Thank you for your word. I will support the debate on the consequences of the introduction of vineyards. Let me remind you that in the history of the construction of the highway network and the development of the toll system, the Social Democrats have advocated such a toll system that allows tolling after a mile. Unfortunately, we were not successful in this reasoning. Unfortunately, however, we have never run this sector in the history of parliamentaryism. And of course we haven't been able to implement this tolling method. However, I would like to point out that the current Government has changed its way of financing motorways without amending the Resolution on the Construction of the Highway Network. So we do not have a basic document in line with what is happening in Slovenia today. If the resolution on the construction of national motorways were to be rebalanced in the way that the resolution or the rebalancing of the resolution would accurately identify the consequences of debt in the construction of motorways, today we would not be discussing whether we would be applying guilt for a transitional period or if this toll would be in the free course of transport. It is very clear that, for a transitional period, the costs of introducing vignettes are not justified. Eight million euros just to print the vineyards when we need a lot of money for the main and regional roads today, not tomorrow would be very economical to invest these eight million euros in the main and regional roads, not in printed paper, from which we will do even more damage. And obviously the debate is really necessary on this subject. So I'm grateful if you'll support my colleague's proposal to really talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u284	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u285	Thank you very much. First of all, the case wasn't filed. I don't remember Mayor Vodice suggesting that the toll station be in front of Vodice, then, of course, people in Vodice would pay. The following must be said that with the system to be introduced, at the same time, three hundred to four thousand citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who bought houses at specific locations reporting where toll stations are, will now have to pay more. And that's not even that bad. It is bad enough that you will be the one to have a Member, who will be reduced by 20 times in his contribution to finance this. Who? Those moms and grandpas who drove to Brez on Sunday because they paid one euro for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u286	Please calm down and do not respond to every provocation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u287	Thank you very much. And who's gonna pay for that? Look! Who's gonna pay for this, Mr. Grimes? Those people waiting on Slovenian highways like in parking lots. You will charge those fifty-five euros of parking because they stand from Maribor to Gruškov and from Karavank to Vodice. You really think these people are gonna pay this peacefully. If that's the case, if these people can really pay for it, I suggest we drive Slovenians and Slovenians for free. And we charge it all to strangers. A much simpler model.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u288	Gentlemen, you can see for yourself that this is no longer an explanation for the voice, but it is a controversy where new hands appear. For the last time, I'm applying for an explanation of vote on my own behalf. Please don't change the voice-explanatory institute into controversy. Application for self-explanatory reasons, last one. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will certainly support the proposal to hold a debate on this subject, because it is important and because the lion's share of responsibility has fallen on us. Because we're going to have to adopt a change of law or something. I always advocate tolling according to the principle: Pay as much as you spend or how much you transport. At the same time. It is certainly clear that the current tolling system is open at some point, sometimes closed. It is not good that traffic density has increased and therefore the system needs to be upgraded and developed into free-flow tolling. The government's proposal is everything but that and it's going back. The government wants to socialise with the pauschal by society - if I may say so - transport costs. And in this way, more will be paid by those who use less motorways and less by those who use more roads. This is contrary to the declared policy of regionalisation of Slovenia and so on. At the same time, we will have two toll modes at 400 km: current and vignette for trucks. Which means the toll stations will stay. It means the trucks will still be stopping and running. And also cars, because they're going to have to reduce the speed at toll stations to 40 km/h. None of what you've said is true. It's all pure propaganda. This needs to be discussed clearly in this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u290	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u291	I will vote in favour of the debate on the Minister's response to the question raised. Today was a typical example of how this institute is being abused. I am surprised to all the presidents that you do not direct the explanations of vote or the proposals made by individual Members and Members when they say I am not satisfied with the answer, let us make a broader debate on the matter, only on the answer to the question raised can we discuss the Rules of Procedure in this institution. Because I was here when Mr Squeakl asked this question and a very clear question was raised. It's an economic impact. The question was: How will this be known in the budget, what about this study, where is the new study, what are you justifying these moves and these decisions? There really wasn't an answer. I will discuss the introduction of vineyards, if any, and the amendment of the law, which will allow it, at that time. However, it would make sense to discuss the answer to this question. Because it is more obvious that there are no legitimate reasons in terms of the macroeconomic consequences for the country. Not to mention the future necessary collection of additional duties. Whether from those involved in transport or otherwise from taxes it will cover those errors that will be caused by this change, with the introduction of vignettes. I will therefore vote that this is the only part that will be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u292	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u293	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Let me say that I will support this proposal. And I agree with you, Mr President, that the Institute of Explanation of the Voice is being misused for debates and all other things. I'll make my own decision because I think it's smart. We could have had this toll system shut down. We could have a whole closed toll system. We could have electronic tolling, and we could have vignettes. I think it would be the fairest and fairest electronic system. However, in order to avoid having to stand at every toll station, I think it would be much more fair to make Croatia as a transitional period until we reach an electronic, closed toll system. I think this would be the most just. For, look! I get it myself, I spend about 100 euros on tolling when I drive around Slovenia. I'm spending 1,200 euros. I'll pay the government or the state 50 euros now. By giving me my salary, when I have €3,000 to €4,000 clean, which I bring home in my pocket, the government gives me an additional €1,100. And I don't think such a system is fair or proper. However, it seems to me that if the Government did so before it adopted these things by means of a change of law, one of the debates in the National Assembly is to decide what is useful in order to reach a consensus and to do more. This is because, on my own - in case I tell you - I get from the Government - I stress - EUR 1,100. And how many of these people are in the Republic of Slovenia. This selected system is chosen in my opinion, indeed, because the media have repeatedly warned that it is one of the pre-election mints that the government gives to people before the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u294	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u295	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I think it would make sense to hold a debate, as proposed by my colleague Cwickl, because after all: How will the matter be financially achieved, how will taxpayers be burdened in one period, how will it be found that things are not going as intended? It is a question to be answered with either a diagnostic or a simulation system. I haven't seen it, and I don't believe it's already set. That's why Mr. Secretary and his men have time to prepare it. That this is a big pre-election story, it's probably clear to everyone. In this way, many of us are suppressed in accepting the matter at the principal level, because, however, many, at least daily migrants, are relieved of their travel costs. The second question is how will this be known in the global context. So it's how it's gonna be paid, when it's paid, and who's gonna pay. It is obvious or at least so indicated that the matter will only be paid after October 2008 with some irritations, balancings, knowledge of errors, etc. I think it's good for Mr. Bayuk to say this earlier. However, we will be able to make a much fairer decision, with more arguments and also with more information on what to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u296	Thank you. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, for 23, for 37. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 37.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Szvikla will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a charter responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Slovenian Development Strategy, Dr. Žige Turka and the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, to the question of mag. Milana M. Szvikla in connection with the publication of a public contract for the establishment of a tax information system. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u297	On Tuesday, I asked both ministers about the written question raised, first of all, by the Member States. Then these two answered a public question Tuesday. The fundamental dilemma was whether the development of the tax information system properly supported domestic or foreign industry. The invitation was prepared for a foreign supplier. However, in accordance with today's decision by the State Audit Commission, which has granted the complainant domestic remedies, I am withdrawing the procedural proposal that the Tax Administration, DURS, should deal substantively with their audit request for tenders for the pharmaceutical system in order to discuss this at the next meeting. I think that the State Audit Commission has already done what the opposition Members themselves have requested. She's comfortable. And I think this is also a message to the Minister for Finance, the Minister responsible for coordinating development and so on, and also to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia themselves, to reconsider whether it is good to have a tax information system similar to the Florida tax system. Wouldn't it be better to upgrade what we have using domestic industrial and information technology? This is the content of a favourable application to the State Audit Commission. So I welcome it. Therefore, there is no substantive need to discuss this, because our objective is already achieved. I am withdrawing the procedural proposal to decide on this in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u298	Thank you. You heard me. The motion is withdrawn. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the Proposal for a Penal Code under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: the proposal of the Penal Code is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Check-in is on. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u299	Dear Mr. President. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will not support the proposal of the Penal Code, which he sent to the Ministry of Justice. There are several reasons, but the most important is that it is essentially an unnecessary and in no way justified act, an unjustifiable change. In all the use of the Penal Code, so far nothing has proved to be wrong with him. Nor did those constitutional opinions received by individual articles at that time confirm that they would be inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, the public debate has shown that the professional public with the name which has the references has taken this proposal very seriously or even opposed it. But what was in favour of this law was very, very unusually brought into this place of Slovenian democracy. Of the approximately 30 debaters there were 12 who supported this law. All brought by Minister Lovro Šturm of the Ministry of Justice. This was the way the opinions of respected experts from the Faculty of Law, from various institutes, were drawn up with the two referees and the trainees at the Ministry. I also think that there is something to say about how Minister Sturm is taking his proposals to this National Assembly and trying to enforce them in every way to break down this system, which is relatively good at work. At the same time, of course, this law brings some other laws and, in fact, reverses the passage of legislation by first adopting partial or sectoral laws, and then on the basis of this it is only systemic. That's the path that's wrong. Of course, who wants to bypass some of the purely normal principles of democracy. You're not going to say anything. But it doesn't matter. Even if it's a hundred, we'll be against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u300	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u301	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Group of Social Democrats of this proposal, the Penal Code cannot be supported and we will not support it. From the very beginning, we have been opposed to the way this Penal Code was prepared and to the way it prepared itself or in what form it presented itself. We are convinced that the Penal Code should be supplemented and amended in those parts where it is necessary to do so in order to comply with the international treaties which we have ratified. Or because some things have grown over time, and they need to be reorganized and otherwise regulated in the Penal Code. We are also opposed to the fact that the Ministry first commissioned a special study at the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law in order to demonstrate the part in which the Penal Code needs to be corrected and how it needs to be corrected. What's the point of staying? Without the Ministry waiting for this study to be completed and, of course, justifying the taxpayer's money paid to this special group for this effort, it has formed a special new group of three. There is a group of only three experts, and they are asked to prepare a new, entirely new Penal Code. However, there are many things that are totally unacceptable to a democratic state in this material that we have received for the debate, for a country that is based on the rule of law and which also in practice wants to consolidate and support human rights and fundamental freedoms. Not only is the entire Penal Code a very large number of articles that are very controversial, the formulations are inaccurate, inconsistent. The biggest problem with this Penal Code is that it changes in the general part of a whole series of basic criminal law institutes. From the question of criminal liability, from the question, the elimination of relative limitation periods. To eliminate all crimes of a medical nature, to eliminate juvenile delinquency and so on and so forth. Not to mention. In short, it is embarrassing for this country and for this National Assembly to adopt such a text, which has now been offered to us for discussion and acceptance. Therefore, the Group of Social Democrats will in no way be and the emphasis is on this - it cannot accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u302	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 21. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The draft law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Check-in is on. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u303	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Group of Social Democrats cannot and will not support this proposal. This bill is regarded as essentially the result of the previous one as the Penal Code. In addition, this law introduces a number of things that are very controversial. It introduces - say - the judicial police, who are assigned very doubtful powers and are expanding their powers. For example, they will be able to hunt prisoners on the run on the ground, enter apartments without a warrant, and so on. Not to mention. All of this speaks of what you do not agree through individual legislation that repression in this country is being strengthened and that there is no real reason for it in this society. That is why we cannot and will not accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u304	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u305	Earlier in the Penal Code, I had said that these were procedures that were unusual and that did not bring something that a person could reasonably accept. It's more like trusting the minister or not. Given how he's been doing this through the entire term, we just don't believe him. We no longer believe, and his sweet words convince him that he always has something behind him. The same was true of this law. I will no longer comment on the next proposals coming from this ministry. Because it's the same principle. First, we get a daughter's marriage. Then this daughter's marriage is the basis for those who should be the basic law. He does. That's just the way it is. The procedure has gone this way. Otherwise, you asked for it yourself. It is said that one empty excuse and a great hurry, a great hiccup in some way to break down the system as it exists, or to build as many as possible. This is evil, as much trouble as possible for those who will inherit this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u306	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u307	Otherwise, I didn't want to hear from you. I've voted against it before. But I have no problem explaining why we will be in the parliamentary group and why I will vote against it myself. At the same time, with my explanation, I can extend for a few minutes the curiosity of this National Assembly, which apparently the mother code of the Penal Code, which you just sent to the impossible, impossible second reading. Because I do not understand that it is possible to correct such a flawed concept of amendments resulting from the Penal Code. I'm not going to support this marriage either. I doubt the coalition has read the Penal Code. In view of the fact that we have heard in previous discussions today that the law does not solve what was once done in the past, it is wrong when the Penal Code was adopted in 1994 and when it allowed the methods of the shovel to be introduced today. That's exactly what the Penal Code was doing, and your minister didn't go after it, and he didn't fix it. The law that we are now voting on is the result of a major mistake, a mistake in writing and adopting the Penal Code, which has thorough interference in the system, in every marriage society, every single one, and which some other societies consider more delicately. They're allowing it to last for a hundred years. After 10 or 13 years, we have already embarked on its reforms, since the system in this Slovenia has changed so that it needs key changes. Where a laboratory should be so called, a tweezer can reach through the matter, reaching out to the ministry, or government, with a shovel. Very, very bad!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u308	Thank you. We're voting on the law. There are 64 Members and Members present. 45 votes against 17. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The draft law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. 48 votes against 17. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. The draft law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on legal tariffs, the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on legal tariff is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Check-in is on. Mr. Koren, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u309	Thank you for your word. The Group will also give a positive opinion for this law that it is suitable for further consideration. Above all, we think it is important that things in the field of legal tariffs are arranged more honestly. Above all, judicial proceedings or procedures will be conducted between people who appear to resolve these disputes as quickly as possible. It seems very important to us that the lawyer will be rewarded primarily if he succeeds in reaching an out-of-court settlement or a judicial settlement, or if there is already a judicial decision to conclude it quickly. I think this is important for Slovenian people, for Slovenian people. For many times so far people have spent and spent a great deal of money on legal proceedings for lawyers, but have not managed to solve their problems within a reasonable time. We are confident that this novel will also contribute to a faster reduction of judicial backlogs in the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u310	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u311	Thank you so much for saying that. In view of the progress of the debate, it shows that opposition parliamentary groups will not support the proposed law. Unlike them, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support this law. But the reason for this is very simple. This law allows for more economical judicial proceedings. It allows for faster judicial proceedings and allows cheaper judicial proceedings. In particular, I would stress the important reason for adopting or supporting this law. This is that clients who use lawyers in procedures will know in advance what the costs will be when they engage a lawyer. For so far they did not know this information until the end of the proceedings. Now this will be known in advance, no matter how many applications the lawyer makes, how many hearings and how long the process will last. And we are confident in the Slovenian Democratic Party that these reasons are very simple but so important that this law needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u312	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u313	Thank you for your word. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will not support this law. She will not support him for two basic reasons. The first, less important, is that this bill entered into the procedure before the Law on Lawyers, proposed by the Government, was passed and would have just travelled to this law on legal tariff. Another important reason is the principled nature, namely that, by the Constitution, the legal profession as part of the judiciary is a self-serving and independent service. However, when a State wants to adopt a law that will regulate the legal rate, it denies this constitutional provision. This denies the fact that, according to our constitution, counseling is a self-serving and independent service. For this particular reason, the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats will not support this proposal, nor will it support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u314	Thank you. Mr Moge also spoke on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u315	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will not support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The first is a formal reason. I am ashamed as a Member to accept today that it is an appropriate law that has a basis in the law that we will only later adopt, and this law will be the basis for us to adopt this law. At the same time, his questionableness is in the constitution. Second thing. We assess and calculate that this law will bring less legal security for the poor in the Republic of Slovenia, which is due to Article 4, because of the awards that lawyers can conclude, they will not be able to afford it. And when the state provides them with legal certainty to hire a lawyer, they will hire such lawyers at such low rates that they will probably have no more motivation to defend them as they should. Second, this law, even if adopted in such a form, will harm people who are perfectly right, and they will go to justice if they receive that truth 100%, they will never receive the costs that they have agreed to with the lawyer under this law. It means that if I want to succeed in some way, and I want to have a good lawyer, I will give this lawyer the property under Article 4, and I will never get that money back. And what hurts us most about the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is the following. We think that lawyers are helping to create a legal state, not that they are enemies of this legal state, because they help people who are in trouble. And it is not the lawyers who, according to the motioners, are the main culprit for our legal system not working as it should. It's a long way from here. We think that lawyers are useful and we think that it is the fault on the other hand that those who should create a legal order that should be created by effective courts, that this time the finger is firmly against another party. Because of this, as I have already said, we will not support this bill in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u316	Thank you. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 22. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before we move on to mandate-election matters, we are moving on to the continuation of the 3rd item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces - another issue. This is a retrial of the third vote, in which some parliamentary groups have announced obstruction, so I will wait a moment. Thank you. The rest of you present, I ask you to verify the operation of the voting apparatus. First, we move on to the decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 406.b. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 46 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes the second reading of the bill. The assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. The vote failed due to a lack of presence. Only 45 Members and Members have been reported, so we are moving on to a second attempt to vote on the proposal for a decision that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare a proposal for a third reading law. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. We will wait for a moment if other Members and Members of Parliament want to join us. Can we move on? We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals of the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of four judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. By letter dated 13 March 2008, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Danilo Türk, invited the National Assembly to elect Dr Mitjo Deisinger, Prof. Ernest Petrič, Mrs. Jazno Pogačar and Mr Jan Zobc as judges of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia. I give the text to the representative of the proposaler, Dr Eric Kerševan, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Here you go, Dr. Kershawn.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u317	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A great deal of effort has been put on the part of all of us to resolve the unacceptable situation in which the Constitutional Court has taken place after almost half of the Constitutional Judges have been appointed, that is, almost half of the Constitutional Judges have no more mandate and for two months has been an empty seat of Constitutional Judge. Postponing to try to resolve the current unacceptable situation would not contribute to ensuring a constitutional order. The Constitutional Court represents the summit of justice and therefore special care is needed to ensure its smooth functioning and effectiveness. Therefore, in the election of Constitutional Judges, any other criteria should be forgotten and professionalism should be maintained. The Constitutional Court, in view of the complex situation that was the result of the failed elections of the previously proposed candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court and, of course, the resignation of the Constitutional Judge, Prof. Grad, was faced with a vague future. As a result, a great deal of effort and extreme seriousness was put forward by the applicant in order to obtain candidates who, according to their professional references and criteria, comply with the high standards required for a judge of the Constitutional Court: Dr Mitjo Deisinger, Professor Ernest Petrič, Mrs Jazno Pogačar and Mr Jan Zobc. The proposed candidates are top legal experts selected from various legal areas whose work is required in the Constitutional Court, namely criminal, civil, international and administrative law. At the same time, it should be pointed out that it is a matter of excellent legal expertise, as it cannot be held seriously that the Supreme Judges are not legal experts, that the Doctors of Legal Sciences constitute a secondary choice, that the professional position which deviates from some other legal positions disqualifies a person in the legal profession or that it is only possible to assess a top-level lawyer on the basis of the number of articles published. For all candidates, the breadth of legal thought and the ability to understand the need to protect fundamental constitutional principles and the rights of individuals is important. However, there can be no relevant division between judges and non-judges. Therefore, it is only the fact that such a legal expert has served as a supreme judge in his legal career that he cannot and cannot disqualify as a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Court, since such experts in the Constitutional Court can never be too many. Therefore, a good and professionally balanced proposal by top legal experts has been proposed, which has already been expressed in broad support for the groups of Members. There is therefore an opportunity for the President of the Republic and the National Assembly to jointly create a new chapter in the history of our statehood by proving that, on the basis of mutual respect and joint action, the current unacceptable situation can also be resolved and that the full composition of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia can be ensured, so that it can carry out its function effectively for the benefit of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u318	Thank you. The proposals were considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body. I give the floor to the President, Mr Franz Sušnik, to present the report of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Republic of Slovenia submitted proposals to the National Assembly for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The President of the Republic states in his proposal that in the drafting of the proposal, the top legal competence of the candidates and the appropriate representation of the various legal areas have been taken into account as a basic guide. In doing so, the three proposed candidates, Dr. Deisinger, Mrs. Pogačar and Mr. Zobs, are selected from among the judges of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, as the performance of the functions of the judges of the Constitutional Court may mean the continuation or conclusion of the career of an excellent judge who, on the basis of his knowledge and experience, has gained a comprehensive insight into the needs and possibilities of legal protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms guaranteed by our constitutional order. Prof. Petrič's candidate is a member of the United Nations Commission on International Law and, as a professor of international relations and international law, has developed for many years the academic aspect of legal science, which he has enriched with his experience in diplomacy. A more detailed justification or presentation of their current professional work is also provided for the proposed candidates. All proposed candidates agree. On the basis of the experience and expertise presented, the President of the Republic considers that the proposed candidates would perform an excellent role as judges of the Constitutional Court and thus prevent further difficulties or even complications arising from the incomplete composition of the Constitutional Court. I therefore propose to the Members and Members of the National Assembly that they be elected as Judges of the Constitutional Court. In accordance with its competence in preparing for the decision in the National Assembly on the proposals of the President of the Republic for the election of four judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia at its 39th meeting, held on 20 March 2008, the Council of Ministers of the People's Republic of Slovenia held an election. It concluded that all the proposals were submitted in accordance with the law that the proposal by the President of the Republic was prepared in accordance with Article 14, paragraph 9, 11, 12, and 13, of the Constitutional Court Act. On the basis of Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Constitutional Court Act and Article 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly will decide on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect the proposed candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. On this basis and after the discussion, the Committee of the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia adopted, by a majority of the votes defined, that Dr. Mitjo Deisinger, Prof. Ernest Petrič, Mrs. Pogačar and Mr Jan Zobc be elected Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which is proposed to the National Assembly. In view of everything I have said, I repeat once again that the Council of State's Committee of Elections proposes to the National Assembly that it decide on the proposals of the President of the Republic for the election of the proposed candidates for judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u320	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jože Tanko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u321	Respectable. Good evening, everyone. We have before us the elections of the four Constitutional Judges, which were presented to us by the President of the Republic, Dr. Türk. We like three candidates because the National Assembly did not elect constitutional judges in the mandate of the previous President and one because of the resignation of the elected Constitutional Judge. It should be noted that in the last secret vote for the Constitutional Judges, there could be three more candidates, but those who promised the support of their Members did not hold to the floor and were more essential in local and other environments. The President of the Constitutional Court, then Dr. Čebulj, also pointed out this unsettling position or attitude and the disrespect for the applicant. As a result, the Constitutional Judges, who had been given a mandate, were placed in an unusual and unplanned position. All three decided to continue their work until the new Constitutional Judges were elected, thereby allowing the Constitutional Court to proceed smoothly. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I thank them for their decision and for their understanding and thank them for their work in this esteemed institution. The proposal sent to the Members by the President of the Republic, Dr Türk, is, in the opinion of our Group of Members, appropriate. Much has already been said about candidates and their previous employment, as they are and still perform important and responsible functions in justice or diplomacy. They have their contributions published in professional literature, some have actively participated in the drafting of laws, and one of them has participated in the placement and consolidation of Slovenia on the world map. In their current practice, many practical problems have been solved. These are established, professional, socially responsible and working candidates. In the parliamentary group, we have already held discussions with all candidates before formally submitting proposals to the National Assembly, because in the parliamentary group we have decided not to make decisions after feeling or on the basis of media releases or other records, but we will only form our position after talking with the candidates and I am sure that we have done the right thing. In the presentations, the candidates proved to be excellent knowledgeers of the situation in the judiciary, explained their views on the role of the Constitutional Court, said much about the situation in the judiciary and the Constitutional Court, and also made several proposals to address the most outstanding problems. Despite the fact that we have amended the Constitutional Court Act in this mandate, the burden of the Constitutional Court is not significantly reduced. And we agreed that the following corrections needed to be significantly deeper into the legislation in order for the Constitutional Court to deal mainly with the most challenging legal issues and dilemmas that set legal or legislative standards. The Constitutional Court is not only a judge in explaining or deciding difficult constitutional matters or legal issues. The Constitutional Court shall also be in a position where it has the right or right to be guilty and to form the law. When it reaches the legal standard when it removes or repeals a solution, when it corrects the legislator's decision, or when it prescribes a way or direction to resolve a difficult issue, it also reaches the legislative sphere every time it reaches the competence of the other independent branch of authority, which must also take into account the opinion in its decisions. We have cases where this is very difficult to do, because it is not possible to get sufficient political consensus in the National Assembly to carry out individual decisions. We also have cases where the referendums and solutions proposed there have not been enough support for certain things or have been strongly rejected by a large majority. This does not mean that we do not want to implement these decisions, but we would like to stress that the National Assembly is also in an insurmountable position and we do not want such situations in the Group of Members. Members of Parliament will support all four proposals submitted by President Daniel Türk. Despite the fact that the vote is secret, I hope that today we will fully complete the composition of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u322	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members and Members, Adviser to the President of the Republic. We are pleased in the Group of Social Democrats that at 7 p.m. we were able to start a debate on the appointment or election of four judges of the Constitutional Court. If the program prepared in the National Assembly were in place, it would now be an hour of 12 or more. I have to say that I have been concerned that, with all the great meaning and great words that we are committed to electing constitutional judges in the National Assembly, we are programmed to work in such a way that the fundamental criterion for when the coalition can be gathered to vote is that we have probably never given the elections of constitutional judges to a time that was programmed this time, that is, the beginning of the vote has been programmed for 21 hours and 45 minutes. I think it is right to say that the attitude of the leadership of the National Assembly and the coalition to this important issue will also be seen in this case. Second. We are pleased that the coalition, which was a public talk, decided unanimously to support all four candidates. This is certainly an important message to the President of the State, who, in view of his experience so far in the functioning of the National Assembly, knew that only those chosen could be those who would be supported by the majority of the coalition. None of the others, with at least 49 votes cast by the coalition, can get the required majority, but anyone can reverse mathematics or accounting. The President of the country has decided, so we understand from the proposal that the election of constitutional judges at this time is now a priority. That is why he had to consult the parliamentary groups and therefore had to choose a candidate and candidates who had opportunities to be elected in advance. I hope that this choice is such that this basic wish of the President of the State will be fulfilled. For we know that, in the first proposal, he could not overcome all the problems that we have faced in the current elections of the Constitutional Judges and that he would not be able to propose candidates with whom everyone would be fully satisfied. We, too, in the Group of Social Democrats, are not satisfied with all candidates and candidates. We do not want to make a concrete assessment because of the right attitude towards candidates, but we have communicated them openly to the President of the Republic in the interviews we have had with him. We would be sorry if the election did not come, but the full promise of the coalition assures us that there can be an election. Let me just say one more thing. We want the Constitutional Court to take office, we want it to work successfully, but for us, given the experience we have, in addition to the undisputedly important professional criteria and expertise, it is also important that the individual characteristics of the individual candidate, personal characteristics, not political conviction, because these personal characteristics can affect such or other activities. Where our belief is that personal property raises doubts about objectivity, our decision to the proposal is critical. And that's also why we don't support all the candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u324	Thank you. Mr Jožef Školč will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u325	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Today’s proceedings, or this stage, point primarily to the need to think very carefully about the relationship between the proposer and the National Assembly, which leads to the election or non-election of Constitutional Judges and Judges. Let me begin by saying that for these vacant posts, according to my colleagues and my opinion, the National Assembly has already had a better choice for certain positions. That these better choices have not been made, it is certainly not only what we have heard that not all who are necessarily present in this Chamber have been present, but it has been my view of the coalition's decision. That's how it's gonna be today. As far as the process is concerned, it has been absolutely correct on the spot and in this process we have been able to communicate those concerns that we have had on certain candidates. We asked for certain data, and we also had the opportunity to face candidates and candidates. It is necessary to know that part of the concerns which later turned out to be not just us, but also to be communicated to the public by others concerned about the seizure and the establishment of the Constitutional Court, that the President considers that they are not in place. Today's the first time his representative has, I'm going to say, been dealing with those who put certain things into question. So that there will be no misunderstandings, we have decided not to hide behind what is said to be 'vote in our conscience', and we have told the President in detail as well as on the Mandate-Electorial Commission, and we will also be here to support the two candidates and not two. We had thoughts at the beginning about all the candidates. All these procedures have led us to the fact that certain reservations have also been dropped. How did we judge or decide to support the candidates? We have gone to what has also been said today that it is expected of constitutional judges and judges to be top legal experts. Of course, this can be a major controversy. However, it can certainly be judged either through their presence in academic controversy, contributions to this subject, or by the callous judgments they accept as judges. At this point, we have estimated that Mrs Pogačareva has relatively little judicial experience, and these have been presented as crucial. She's been a judge for six years, and she's done no professional serious publishing. We also believe that there are reservations that can arise as to how someone will behave in certain situations. And here we have communicated our reservations about Mr Deisinger and he will not enjoy our support, but it does not seem right before this meeting. It is the responsibility of the President of the Republic not only the National Assembly but also the President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u326	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will postpone the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To introduce this brief presentation of DeSUS Group's position, let me first say what our attitude is to the two important institutions we are talking about today. One is the Constitutional Court and the other is the President of the State who proposes to the Constitutional Judges. We have a serious relationship with the Constitutional Court, a very respectful relationship even when our interests may not be in line with their decisions, but these decisions must be respected. This is due mainly to the fact that this is not always the case in the National Assembly and because we know that the attitude towards the decisions of the Constitutional Court is sometimes such that it should be avoided, if that were the case. The attitude towards the President of the country is also respectful, not only of the institution, but also of the individual. And as far as this is concerned, the parliamentary group has done what it will now do in previous attempts to appoint or elect judges. He trusts in judgment, trusts in thought and also in talks he has had with candidates and with parliamentary groups or their leaders. This therefore predicts that the DeSUS Group will support Mr President's proposal. In doing so, it is right to express our concern about the situation in this area, which is a cause for concern. Worst of all is that we are not the only ones who estimate that the situation has worsened at least in the last period. Even with the help of some, perhaps too much nonchalant, loose, too little serious action that we made in the National Assembly. That the situation is very difficult, probably thousands of unsolved cases speak, doubts are raised as to what composition is, whether it is quality enough or not, as to whether the reputation of the Constitutional Court has been established or not. In short, the whole species is the reason we can be concerned. And let us hope that this concern will be reduced by today’s votes. The proposal presented is acceptable to us. He could be different. I could have been better. However, it is not such as to be able to choose only the best, for by working in the National Assembly, it is likely that a number of potential constitutional judges have given birth to the idea that it is not appropriate for them to do so. We have seen that some supremely leave the work of constitutional judges. That's bad, too. With regard to our parliamentary groups, let me conclude by saying that we will support all four proposed candidates and candidates. We will support each one individually with a majority, but not each of them will receive all four or today all three votes. So let us hope that for the first time this path will harmonize our predictions. I am referring to the National Assembly and all the individual parliamentary groups with the work that will take place when we make an anonymous rounding of the announcements today, however, will also show results in the election of all four candidates for the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u328	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the position of the parliamentary groups. There will be a debate between Members and Members. He's got a procedural word. [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u329	Thank you for your word. Look, I am firmly convinced that the President of the country followed his constitutional rights and formulated a proposal for his best assistance. With great surprise, however, I listened to the words of the representative of the Social Democrats, who, if I translated this from old party Latvian into Slovenian, predicted that at least one of the candidates would be, and probably all of them would be, broken down and spoken in a position like [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u330	Mr. Grimes, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u331	If you'll allow me to finish. He's gonna come out of this. And that they will speak again about the position, which they have already done in Mr Drnovsk's proposals. What is different now is the fact that the President is here for the first time in this role, that he has been re-elected, strongly partyed, and that this double game, this transformation of this party, is obvious, I suggest that documents be submitted to all who will testify that the current President has been nominated and elected and, of course, undermined in the electoral campaign to make it clear what kind of game this is actually.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u332	Please, Mr Grimes, it was an abuse of the rules of procedure. Please refrain from abuse. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Rugelj wants a word. He's been reported, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u333	Thank you very much. I am pleased that Mr President of the State has found good candidates and that he has also been able to present them properly and propose them here in the National Assembly. This means talks, talks with parliamentary groups and the candidates themselves have presented themselves here. If you had listened to the opposition in the past, someone would have said, "I don't know if we even have enough candidates for constitutional judges in Slovenia." As it turns out, we have them. This time they're different, completely acceptable. Even on the Commission's mandate, we found that out. I think the President's move is very good, because it is irresponsible to send candidates to the National Assembly before you know whether these candidates in the National Assembly have real support or not. We know what happened in the past. Even though the opposition may blame us for how someone voted in that secret vote. I have already said that in a secret vote those candidates who have not received support in the past can certainly say that they have certainly not received votes from those members or those members of the opposition that were not here. It was about 15 members of the opposition. We know that some candidates have run out of, I don't know, some votes. So it was pure manipulation of the opposition in such a secret vote. If I say it one more time. I think that, despite the fact that this surprised me, the opposition disagrees with the President's opinion and says that the President may have a different opinion on the personality of these candidates. I think we should put the main thing first, and that's expertise. And the opposition should also be aware of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u334	Thank you. Mr Zagorac, I will immediately interrupt you if there is no procedural proposal. Please, first a procedural proposal, then an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u335	I guarantee you, Mr President, that there will be no explanation at all. I would suggest that if we could all gather so much wisdom and give a special reward to Mr Grimes for allowing no constitutional crisis in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u336	Again abuse, pure abuse of the rules of procedure. Mr. Saiovic. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Sculpture. [[He's quitting.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the vote on the proposals of the President of the Republic for the elected four Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 163 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act of the Republic of Slovenia, the National Assembly shall decide by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The Deputy Secretary-General will also be involved in the work of the Commission. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. This is Franc Jazbec, Matjaž Han, Rudolf Moze and Martin Mikolič. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the Commission. We're voting. The vote on the election committee is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, four votes will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name. It shall be voted on by the word "yes" or "against" on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled vote shall be invalid and the vote shall also be invalid, from which the will of the Member or Member is not clear. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, each candidate proposed will be elected if voted for by the majority of all Members and Members, 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. Members and Members of Parliament will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 7.45 p.m. and will last until 20.05 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to meet you in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 8:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u337	Dear Members and honourable Members! Please take your seats. We're continuing the meeting of the choir. We continue with the adjourned 29th point, this is with the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect four judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Minutes on the outcome of the vote for the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Mitje Deisinger. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 27 March 2008. 73 ballots were distributed, 73 ballots were delivered, one ballot was invalid, 72 votes were valid. "For" was voted by 49 Members, "against" was voted by 23 Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, he was elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by the majority of the votes of all Members. [[Let's hear it.]] Minutes of the outcome of the vote for the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia Prof. Dr. Ernest Petrič. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 27 March 2008. 73 ballots were distributed, 73 ballots were delivered, 2 votes invalid, 71 votes valid. "For" was voted by 52 Members, "against" was voted by 19 Members. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, he was elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by the majority of the votes of all Members, Prof. Dr. Ernest Petrič. [[Let's hear it.]] Minutes of the conclusion of the outcome of the vote for the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia clearly Pogačar. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 27 March 2008. 73 ballots were distributed, 73 ballots were delivered, 3 ballots were invalid, 70 votes were valid. The "yes" was voted by 51 members, 19 members "against" were voted on. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mrs Jasna Pogačar was elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by the majority of the votes of all Members. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Minutes on the outcome of the vote for the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Jan Zobz. [[...]] The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 27 March 2008. 73 ballots were distributed, 73 ballots were delivered, 1 ballot was invalid, 72 votes were valid. 57 members voted against. 15 members voted against. On the basis of the outcome, the vote was elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia by the majority of the votes of all Members. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] I ask the elected judges to join us. The first one will be sworn in by Dr. Mitja Deisinger. I ask Mr Deisinger, Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u338	Respectable. I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and by my every effort to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u339	Mr. Mitji Deisinger, Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, I sincerely congratulate you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. I will do what I have sworn in the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u341	Professor Dr. Ernest Petrič is not present, so he will swear before the National Assembly later. I now ask Mrs Pogačar, Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to come and swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u342	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and work with all my strength to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u343	Ms. Jazna Pogačar, Judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, we sincerely congratulate you. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] I ask Mr Jan Zobc, Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to swear before the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u344	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and by my every effort to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u345	We sincerely congratulate Mr Jan Zobc, Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] We are moving on to the proposal of the Judicial Council for election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted six proposals to the Assembly for the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office to the courts of five District Courts in the District Court of Koper, Novi mesto, Domžal and Maribor and to the District Court of Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. Would you like a representative of the Council of Justice? [[He's not here.]] Can I help you? [[No, no, ……]] The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. There are no applications for discussion. We're moving on to decision-making. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Ana Petkovšek to the District Court in the District Court of Cyprus. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, for 49, against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Nina Strmole Stravs to the District Court in the District Court of Cyprus. We're voting. 52 Members and Members present, 47, against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Romane Račko Strmole to the district court in the District Court in Novi mesto. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, for 48, against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election to the judicial function of the Magi. Anton Lisca to the judge’s seat at the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There were 53 Members present and 49 votes against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for decisions on the election of Ms Mateja Jerak to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Domžalah. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 49 of whom voted against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Edite Taler to the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, 51 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are now moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The mandate-voluntary commission forwarded its minutes. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u346	Last year, an amendment was adopted to the Law on Property Transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia, which established a different composition of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. In accordance with the amended rules and the expiry of the mandate, the necessary procedures have been carried out for the appointment of a new composition of the FIHO Council. The mandate-holders who in writing called on all eligible applicants were warned that the amended law had established that the members of the Council of the Foundation could only be appointed to this function twice in a row. Such an argument was put forward by the Legal and Legislative Service in its opinion, which states that the limitation of two consecutive appointments by content is linked to the performance of a member of the Council of the Foundation since the establishment of the Foundation. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service shall be justified by the proposers together with the call to propose the candidates also received. Despite a warning from the Mandate-Election Commission, three candidates have also been proposed, who have already served as members of the Council for two terms of office, which was decided by the Commission and adopted a decision, for which we also voted in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, to invite the applicants to submit new proposals so that they will have their representative in the Council of the Foundation. We voted in the parliamentary group for those candidates proposed by a large number of humanitarian organisations and for those proposed by the National Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia and other proponents and met the required conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u347	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u348	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me, because it will be in the interest of the work of this session to at the same time express our position on both proposals, it is said, both for the Sport Foundation and for the disabled and humanitarian organisations. We will not support both nominations. We believe that it is prepared in contravention of the fundamental principles of the Constitution, in particular by understanding and applying Article 155 of the Constitution, which speaks of retroactivity. It is true that, with the signature of God Strlett, deputy leader, our legal and legal service gave this opinion, but it is true that it was put on 15 pages and I would hope to claim that it is very unargumentable. It comes from completely different definitions as set out in the Constitution. It foresees that the limitation of the two consecutive appointment is, by content, linked to the Council of the Foundation from its establishment, not to the reduction of the rights to return. It explicitly states that this does not have to be stated in the law, which is expressly contrary to the constitutional standard, which requires that it be said that it is also used for the purposes of the reverse, which are public interest to be used in this way. There is nothing in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. It is true, however, that such a resolution was decided by our Commission of Elections, but only after the vote, but probably before that, when the President wrote to the applicants himself that they should take into account the principle that no one who would have a third term could be proposed when proposing candidates. According to our assessment, this was an arbitrary decision, which was not supported by anything, and we refer to the opinion given by the Comparative Law Institute in this regard, which explicitly mentions four conditions that must be met in order to exceptionally apply to individual provisions of the law. First, he says, "The exception to the principle of the prohibition of retroactivity can only be laid down in law and not in any other act." Secondly: "Only individual provisions of the law and not the law in its entirety can have an effect on the back." Thirdly: "Only the law may provide for retroactive application of individual provisions, but the law must be sufficiently specified or specified that the provisions shall apply in retroactively." Anyone who knows the content of the law knows that there are no such provisions in the law does not say that they can be applied back. And fourthly: "Retroactive application is possible if it requires public benefit and does not interfere with acquired rights." There is no justification that this requires public benefit or interference with acquired rights or not, however, are explicitly different opinions of the Institute for Comparative Law and our Legal and Legislative Services. We believe that the decision of our Mandate-Electorial Commission is arbitrary so that two different legal opinions should not be voted on. Mr Tanko, we have voted and voted as usual, with all the great understanding of the coalition, you have voted in favour of the agreed decisions and today we have proposals for places where third term candidates have been proposed to write peaks. That is to say, we have never before, as I recall, named such a world to any of the foundations that it would have had, but the rest would have been dots and where we would have determined by vote what is the correct professional opinion that we should take into account. This was the system of work of the Mandate-Electorial Commission in this case, customary for the work of this National Assembly. We do not agree with him, so we will abstain from this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u349	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u350	Thank you very much, Chairman. In the Liberal Democracy Club, the individual candidates who have been elected are not opposed. Of course, we are bitter and disappointed with the procedure that has led us to this choice. It is not a matter of avoiding the impression that it is a matter of politicisation, that certain people who have done their work so far have done well, successfully - both for the benefit of disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations. It is weak for the rule of law and the rule of law when the opinion of one institution is placed in this case on the opinion of the Institute of Comparative Law, under which both eminent experts, such as the director of this institution, Prof. Dr. Lojze Ude and those who reported on this matter, are one of the most prominent and eminent Slovenian lawyers, Prof. Bojan Bulgarian. Undoubtedly, this is a matter of retroactivity and a misinterpretation of these rules and simply an unacceptable interference in the policy area of law, where politics is not supposed to enter. We do not oppose the selected candidates themselves, and we want them to do their work successfully for the benefit of all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u351	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Sušnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the interests of correctness, it is necessary to state that, after two views, the views of the two parliamentary groups indicated some opinion which was not easily expressed at this point, which, as President of the Commission of Mandate-Election, is not appropriate or appropriate for the evaluation of mandates, given the provision of the law to which you referred in the case of funds for the financing of disability organisations and humanitarian organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. It's a simple fact. As President, I have proposed to the Commission, in the decision-making process, the only acceptable solution which has gone in this direction, that those proposing which were not in accordance with the amended legislation, which were not in accordance with Article 15 of the Act, should be invited to submit new proposals within fourteen days, and the Mandate-Election Commission, in accordance with the decision taken and the agreement, will propose to this Assembly that the decision be supplemented in this part. I do not think that this is a qualified candidate who can propose to the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in any way a short chance of cooperation in this world. It is simply that I believe that they will respect the legislator's wishes and propose those of their representatives who have not worked or acted in the Council of the Foundation so far. However, we think it is necessary, given that a five-year term in the Council of the Foundation expires on 8 February 2008, to arrange for the Council of the Foundation to act as normally as possible regardless of this deficiency. That is why, on my proposal, the Mandate-Election Commission has proposed such a solution to the National Assembly. In any event, it is not the apparent will of the President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. I have not decided on the method of appointment myself, but I have left this decision to the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which has decided, as it is, in the proposal for a decision, it is clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u353	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u354	The rule of law must work in all areas of social life. Thus, of course, there is no law that would be different for sports organisations, as well as for the field of disability organisations. I'm glad we're here to complete the Constitutional Court. Obviously, it will also have enough work in this area that we are currently dealing with, and will undoubtedly say the last to this legal dilemma, but then, of course, I hope that you will stick to what is going on in all the regulated legal countries, that the Constitutional Court decisions are respected and enforced, but not commenting on what has already been done in this country in this mandate, and that there will also be no legal errors that we have already encountered in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u355	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the President, Mr Franz Sušnik, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u356	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia provides, inter alia, in Article 6, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must appoint new members of the Council of the Foundation to finance just a moment of sports organisations [[...]] [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u357	Take it easy, Mr. Sušnik, we'll wait, it's okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u358	sports organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. [[...]] Until the appointment of the new members of the Council of the Foundation performs all the tasks of the Council of the Foundation so far, the Council of the Foundation, which expires its mandate, as I have already said, on 8 February 2008. On this basis, at its 37th meeting, on 23 January 2008, the Mandate-Electorial Commission adopted a Decision initiating the nomination procedure for the nomination of candidates for members of the Foundation Council. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Property Transformation of the Lottery of Slovenia in Article 1 provides that in the Law on Property Conversion of the Republic of Slovenia the third paragraph of Article 10 shall be amended to read: "The Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia shall have 17 members appointed and dissolved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, namely," which is the most important now, "7 members on the proposal of the Assembly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Association of Sport Unions of the National Sports Unions of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the Association of Sports Unions, one member on the proposal of the University of Ljubljana, the Faculty of Sport, one member on the proposal of the Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia, one member on the proposal of the Community of Slovenia, one member on the proposal of the University of Ljubljana, the Faculty of Sport, one member on the proposal of the Association of Sport of the Committees of the various municipalities of the Republic of Slovenia, two of Sport from the Republic of Slovenia from the sport. I have quoted this detailed statement of the law to you because I wanted to stress in particular that only the proposals of qualified applicants can be taken into account in the drafting of the decision and that there is no greater room for manoeuvre. At its 39th meeting, on 20 March 2008, the Commission reviewed the proposals received for members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, concluded that all eligible applicants had submitted proposals within the deadline and that the applicants had also forwarded proposals for candidates, as they proposed, to the composition of the Council of the Foundation. The Commission found, however, that four of the proposed candidates so far proposed by qualified applicants had already served twice as a member of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, which is contrary to Article 13 of the Law on the Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia, and failed to take these proposals into account after the vote. The decision was taken to proposers, this is the Assembly of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia - Association of Sports Unions, the Professional Council of the Government of Slovenia for Sport for One Candidate and the Olympic Committee of Slovenia - The Association of Sports Unions for Three Candidates invites them to submit new proposals within 14 days. On the basis of these proposals, the Commission will subsequently propose to the National Assembly the additions of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of everything I have said and also on the basis of the debate at the previous point, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt a decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u359	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Borut Saiovic, he's giving up. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please. It will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u360	Last year, an amendment was adopted to the Law on the Property Transformation of Lottery, which established a different composition of the Sports Foundation Council. This extended the possibility of proposing members of the Council to several sports organisations or national sports associations. After the change, team sports were also offered: basketball, handball, which had not previously had or had been done for them by the Olympic Committees. It still proposes 7 of the 17 members appointed and dismissed by the National Assembly. In our parliamentary group, we believe that it is right to propose candidates to the Council of the Foundations as many sports organisations as possible, so that we can cover as many sports segments in Slovenia as possible. In accordance with the amended rules and the expiry of the term of office of the members so far, procedures for the appointment of the new composition have been carried out and the Mandate-Electorial Commission has in writing called on all eligible applicants to submit their candidates and, at the same time, warned them that they were paying attention to the amended law or that it had established that the members of the Council of the Foundation could only be appointed twice in a row for this function. Despite a warning from the Mandate-Election Commission, candidates who have already served as a member of the Council have also been proposed, as the Commission has concluded and adopted a decision for which we have also voted in our Group to call on the applicants to forward new proposals. At the same time, it is at least unusual that the Olympic Committee's proposal has also been accompanied by a legal opinion on the provision that those who have already served as a member of the Sports Foundation Council may not re-candidate their term of office. This opinion differs significantly from the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which has been transmitted to the applicants. In the SDS, we believe it is right that as many sports organisations as possible have the opportunity to propose a candidate and it is right that functions after a decade and more occupy new people. No one has challenged the role and work that some have done in the past, not only since the establishment of the Sports Foundation, but also in other organisations before that, and for more than a decade, those who have shared public funds for sport. We are also convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that in Slovenian sport there are many capable people, representatives of various sports organisations and industry, and, after all, it is also right to give the opportunity to young, new, active members in the field of Slovenian sport. We are therefore confident that the applicants will have no difficulty proposing new candidates. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we voted in favour of the candidates who were proposed and who met all the conditions required. We are pleased that recognised sports workers, presidents of national sports associations, doctors, dean of the Faculty of Sport and others have been approved at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We are confident that they will also be confirmed in today's session. In our parliamentary group, I will once again support them, which will enable us to establish the world of the Sports Foundation and bring a new wind into the sails of Slovenian sport, which makes us happy all the time with the success of athletes and athletes, to whom we are rightly proud.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-27-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u361	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Sušnik. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Saiovic. [[He's quitting.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We turn to the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decisions on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the alleged damage to state property in the sale of shares of the Capital Society d.d. and Slovenian compensation companies d.d. in companies, in such a way as to cover the investigation of all sales which are contested in terms of compliance with laws and regulations and in terms of transparency and economy. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We turn to the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the determination and assessment of the actual situation, which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to the exercise of control under the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. To amend legislation and other decisions in accordance with the constitutional powers of the National Assembly. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present, for 51, against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the conclusion of the termination of the mandate of the members of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council established in 2006. The proposal for a decision was presented to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applicants for discussion. The mandate-holder committee presented the following decision for its briefing. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that Mr Anton Mito Trefalt has made a declaration of resignation from the function of a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, appointed pursuant to the seventh indent of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act, and therefore, pursuant to Article 18(3) and (4) of the RTV Slovenia Act, his mandate as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council is terminated in 2006. The term of office shall expire on the date of adoption of this Decision. I take note of the decision submitted by the assembly that the decision has been adopted. We are now moving on to the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decision on Internal Organisation, Jobs and Titles in the Services of the National Assembly. The proposal for a decree was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decision on Internal Organisation, Jobs and Names in the Services of the National Assembly. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, for 45, for 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are now moving on to an examination of the conclusion of the termination of the office of the President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The Ambassadors of Barbara Žgajner Tavš ceased to be a member of the Group of Unaffiliated Members on 14 March 2008. The National Assembly shall therefore be informed of the following decision under Articles 112 and 201 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It is found that Members of the Parliament of Barbara Žgajner Tavš have ceased to be a member of the Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Parliament and that, on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly, she shall cease to serve as President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Anti-Corruption Act. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the election of the President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by the Lipa Group of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for Decisions on the election of the President of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia under the Anti-Corruption Act. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 50 for them, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also adjourn the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you for your presence and patience and good night.
