ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I begin with the continuation of the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Ivan Yelen and Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. We're moving to 3. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the chemicals law - within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Darko Žiberna, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u2	Mr President-in-Office and Vice-President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. Ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly present the meaning of this law. So, the Chemical Act was passed in 1999, supplemented in 2003. The law also introduces a system that allows the EU to implement chemical legislation and introduces several national procedures to protect health and the environment against hazardous chemicals. This amendment is mainly due to changes in EU legislation, which must also be duly reflected in Slovenia's national legislation. At the end of 2006, the European Union adopted a RICH Regulation amending individual procedures already in force in the law. The law should therefore be amended accordingly. It is proposed to delete the chapter "Notification of new substances" and several other articles related to this. In addition to aligning with EU legislation, there has been an opportunity to supplement the law in segments where changes have proved to be meaningful in practice. It is therefore proposed that additional arrangements be put in place in the field of chemical storage for which specific technical and organisational measures are introduced. The final objective is to secure the storage of chemicals and adequately constructed facilities that provide chemical safety as defined by the sub-legislative regulation. The proposed amendment also introduces the opinion of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia on chemicals in the environmental impact assessment process and the procedure for obtaining an environmental permit for the establishment. With a view to obtaining data on the actual burdens of humans and organisms with hazardous chemicals and consequently the possibility of action, when such a burden is too high, the bill introduces bio-monitoring, defined by the law as monitoring the presence of chemicals and their degradation products in humans and organisms. In short, we are adapting to the directives of the European Union and at the same time complementing it in these two areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a parent working body. I give the floor to the President, Mr Ljub Germić, to present the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Mr State Secretary with co-worker, colleague and colleague. At its 26th regular session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Chemicals submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for its consideration and adoption by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Members and members of the Committee have also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service as input for the meeting. The Legislative and Legal Service has defined its position and has also commented on Articles 2, 5, 28, 32, 34 and 35. Mr Darko Žiberna, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, gave an introductory explanation for the bill. He stressed that the main and main objective of supplementing the law is to improve the protection of human health and the environment and to prevent the reduction of the potential effects of dangerous chemicals on human health and the environment and to eliminate the introduction of a non-compliance with the new rules of the European Union. In view of the adoption of the European Regulation, the Chemical Act needs to be amended and amended accordingly. Certain amendments were also transmitted within the time limit set by the representative. The amendments were forwarded by SDS, SLS, NSI and DeSUS to individual Articles, i.e. Articles 2, 5, 28, 32, 34 and 35. The amendments tabled followed most of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion on an individual article of the bill. The members and members of the Committee then supported the amendments tabled by the said parliamentary groups. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them and then included them in the text of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Following the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members, Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! As the proposed Chemical Act states, the amendment is necessary mainly because of the EU regulation's change and the proposed amendments make it possible to apply it in Slovenia. In addition, the amendment to the scope of the Chemical Act over the years has shown that it has not been sufficiently regulated and that it needs to be further regulated. Additional arrangements for technical and organisational measures for the production and storage of hazardous chemicals, the introduction of biomonitoring are certainly reasons or solutions which we do not oppose in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, and a very nice greeting to everyone once again. So the area of chemicals in everyday life is an extremely important area from two perspectives. Because we often face their use directly, while it is necessary to say that in Slovenia we have a very successful chemical and pharmaceutical industry and related industries. This is a very important economic sector, which contributes very significantly to economic growth in Slovenia, to the growth of social gross product and has actually managed to achieve the highest results in the global economic competition and, of course, also successful competitiveness in the world's most developed markets. At the same time, we would like to say that in Slovenia we also have extremely good research work in this area. We have very top-notch experts within the institutes, universities and research departments of industry. Of course, chemicals are extremely difficult and require a lot of attention and concern, as there can be negative environmental impacts and especially negative impacts on the lives of people and other living things when they are misbehaved. In Slovenia we can assess that we have a fairly well-groomed, legally regulated area, since we have already handled this area quite well with the law we adopted in 1999 and with the addition and amendment in 2003. At the same time, the European Union's legislation has also been widely transposed. At the end of 2006, the European Union adopted a Rich Regulation which introduces regulation of registrations, evaluations, authorizations for the appointment of chemicals. And, of course, this Regulation requires direct application in the Member States as well, and the implementation of this Regulation must somehow be completed by the end of 2009. The amendment of the law that we have before us today removes some duplication of the European acquis and the Slovenian acquis with the new rules of the European Union. Thus, the proposed amendments to the Chemical Law formalise Slovenian legislation by deleting provisions that are either contrary to the RICH Regulation or duplicate obligations for the debtors. Complementing the law also means filling the legal void in certain segments of the life cycle of chemicals. Thus, the scope of the storage and storage activities is re-examined in the law. This is an extremely important area that was somehow regulated in other laws and was lacking in this law. For the management of chemicals alone requires extreme attention in the management of premises. So the warehouses where we store the chemicals and, of course, only the handling of the chemicals in the warehouses. Because it's very important that we pay attention to the separation of incompatible chemicals. That we pay attention to proper ventilation and, of course, that we are careful to ensure human health when handling chemicals in storage. Here, of course, it is also the responsibility of the Ministry, which has to regulate the criteria, the criteria for the proper regulation of this safe storage of chemicals, that the facilities be properly constructed and that they will ensure chemical safety in the highest possible sense. It is very important, in the Member State club, that the opinion of the competent authority for chemicals is included in the environmental impact assessment process, if necessary, because it is very important that this competent authority be able to assess and anticipate possible risks in the event of the treatment and handling of certain chemicals. Finally, we would like to point out that the law also changes the condition of who can carry out the tasks of a chemical consultant, to further regulate the role of chemical inspectors, and to introduce biomonitoring as a monitoring of the negative impact of chemicals on people's lives. We therefore believe in the House of Members that the additions brought by this law will contribute to greater chemical safety and will therefore be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Zupan has the floor, on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! Mr Vice-President, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Chemical Act. The proposed amendments and additions follow a fundamental principle relating to the protection of human health and the environment through the preventive reduction of the potential effects of dangerous chemicals, which means the harmonisation of the Slovenian acquis with the acquis of the European Union. The novelty is further governed by the system of technical and organisational measures for the production of hazardous chemicals and by the additional tasks of the body responsible for the chemicals. It also introduces biomonitoring to provide relevant data on the burdens of humans and organisms with hazardous chemicals. As we say, in the New Slovenia Group we will give a green light for the novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Prevc has the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u12	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been stressing all the time that human health is priceless, and in terms of prevention, it is still not done as well as it could be. Contact with chemicals, these dangerous substances, is essential to human health. The consequences can be severe and irreparable. In doing so, it is not necessary that contact with dangerous chemicals is direct, to a large extent affecting our health and the content of these substances in the environment. And it is the environmental issue that should be more at the top of the list of priorities. In the field of production and transport of chemicals, there have been significant deficiencies and unnecessary risks to human health and environmental protection, and we are particularly pleased that additional measures are finally being taken in this area in terms of improving the protection of human health and the environment through preventive measures to reduce the impact of hazardous chemicals. Particular attention must be paid to safer transport and storage by stricter criteria, since the least carefreeness can have disastrous consequences for people and our environment. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group believe that the proposed law is good to contribute to a more orderly situation in the field of dangerous chemicals, and that amendments are adequately complemented and aligned with the European Directive. We will support all the amendments tabled by the coalition's parliamentary groups, as they are necessary and will only be supplemented and amended by the law to meet its stated objective. The provisions of the law will also be clearer. In addition to the obligations of real and natural persons who produce or place dangerous chemicals on the market, Article 5 is necessary, as it is also necessary to lay down liability for the damage that may have occurred in the storage of hazardous chemicals. We also support other solutions. And because we believe that the law as a whole is good we will also support the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Good day to you all! Well, the law is certainly needed and regulated quite so far by unfinished segments, but I think that even in this law, which largely follows the European directives, we can find some more gray foxes that this law has not processed and will have to be regulated somehow. Consider, for example, Article 45, which refers to the conditions for carrying out the activity of the production, use and transport of dangerous chemicals. It is too little time to go into detail, but here in this law they still leave an open place for various strange practices that some may carry out. The fact is that we do not prohibit the use in Slovenia of certain specific pesticides, insecticides, fujmicides, repellents and similar substances, which are sometimes banned in Europe and are not, of course, sometimes worldwide. And that is why in agriculture we still use a whole range of highly toxic and carcinogenic substances, which naturally penetrate the soil and poison the Slovenian population. When we talk about biomonitoring in Article 25, it says that a biomonitoring body responsible for chemicals is coordinated and carried out by health and other public institutions. I think that here we should also take more explicitly into account colleges, in the first place bio faculties, and let's say a pharmacy that is used or that deals with the very subject of use and abuse, including abuse, of albeit less certain chemicals in the manufacture of medicines. It should be borne in mind that the production of medicinal products largely brings by-products which are highly toxic and which are to a large extent carried out in violation of Slovenian legislation. If we take Article 60, which speaks of the powers and tasks of the body responsible for chemicals, point 3 shows that it also runs a list of substances, preparations and dangerous products for which there is a reporting obligation. That's not enough. Only the reporting obligation is significantly insufficient. It is necessary to have a complete line of use, abuse and everything else from the beginning to the final product and, of course, also with the specification of where the by-products in production went. The 6th point suggests that it coordinates the education of chemical consultants and other types of education carried out under this Act. I think that there are several colleges here, even chemistry is competent enough to make sense that we have another specific body, but that it would make sense to include this in a common connection with the Slovenian university profession. It's not enough anyway. In point 10, when it says that it coordinates information support in the field of chemicals and so on, there is also a need to have a specific list of abuses, accidents, pollution and similar matters. We don't run this in Slovenia, and that's very bad. I think that these matters should be regulated in such a way that, of course, we can also control this, not only from the statistical field, but also from the area of, say, toxicity of certain substances. As an example, there are major poisonings of the fish breed in various rivers, when we do not detect in Slovenia, or who dropped something in the water, but there is a single factory up there, or which chemical was in there, and it is known exactly what chemicals are treated in that factory and so on. In addition, I believe that there is another specific article missing here to discuss the prohibition of the use of certain substances, as well as the prohibition or withdrawal of a licence on the use of certain substances. In principle, marriage is not bad. He's got some holes, and I hope the ministry will fix them in the future. Of course, we will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u16	Respectable present. The aim of the Group of Non-Related Members of the Republic of Lip is not to satisfy itself by searching for previously defined grey foxes, but our aim is to eliminate gray foxes in every legislation. The fact is that we are striving to have as much right as possible and, above all, concrete legislation. Especially when it comes to chemical treatment. In the context of its introductory explanation, and not least in the form of a written explanation accompanying the law, the bill defines two good objectives on the one hand. First time. The final objective is the safe storage of chemicals and adequate construction of chemical safety facilities. On the other hand, the proposed amendment of the law also introduces the opinion of the competent authority for chemicals in the environmental impact assessment process and the procedures for obtaining environmental permits for the establishment. However, I would like to stress my desire and intention to see the Ministry jump, as a bill-maker of course, to the changes in the following chapters. Specifically: within the framework of Chapter 8 - "Transport, storage and use of hazardous chemicals and their transport", specifically in Article 42, we find the existing diction unacceptable in the form of: "Legal and natural persons producing, storing or placing dangerous chemicals on the market must provide conditions that prevent or reduce the risk to man and the environment." We are convinced that the word 'or reduce the danger' should not be contained under this Article, but should only be followed by law to prevent it. Not only is the danger being reduced, because the content of the word "decreases" is too loose and in the field of trade, production and everything that defines this law in relation to chemicals must be strictly controlled. According to our assessment, the diction reduces, so that in addition to "preventing" it also "decreases" too loose and represents too much freedom in the field of work with this dangerous substance. In short, I would like to say that we want to tighten Article 42 in the form of prevention of consequences for man and the environment, danger and not only reduction, as defined by the bill-maker. In the context of Article 44 of the proposed law, which speaks of an authorisation to carry out an activity, we aim to ensure that the content of that article itself would be a derivative from which a sub-law would be derived. According to our assessment, in the case of such an important law as the law before us today, it is too small for the law to give exclusive power to the regulations that are defined. In short, we want the content of a law that will deal precisely with the basic and secondary areas of trade, storage and all of dangerous substances, not the content of the law, but the law's proposal to transfer the full powers of the profession and the specifics to a sub-legislative regulation. From this title, the following Article suggests that the procedure or amendment of the law should also be defined in the form of a law of definition for authorisation. The fact is, for once, it is prescribed by the Minister in the form of a sub-law. We want to create that security system in our country, which will also be defined under the law. In the following article, after our assessment, I quote, 'the permission referred to in the second paragraph of this Article does not need to be obtained by legal or natural persons carrying out retail trade in dangerous chemicals. This proposal also defines this bill as a condition for sectoral legislation. According to our assessment, it is necessary to control the country of the relevant institutions even when it comes to retail transport. We must not forget the test in particular when deciding and adopting this law, that we are talking about dangerous chemicals for man, the environment, not least for society as a whole. But I would like to point out what seems particularly important to us, this is what is called biomonitoring chemicals. In the first paragraph, it is said that this biomonitoring is carried out at time intervals which are professionally justified. We want to define time intervals for individual groups chemicals as defined in the law. In short, the time dimensions should be clearly set out and the decision on their impact or initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Bručan on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u18	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker! As we know, the main objective of the law, which is being addressed today, is to improve human health and the environment by pre-emptively reducing the potential impacts of hazardous chemicals on human health and the environment. One of the chemicals laws, as we have already heard today, was adopted in 1999, followed by 2003. It establishes a system that enables the implementation of European chemical legislation and introduces several national procedures, health and environmental protection against these dangerous chemicals, and this amendment to the Chemicals Act, which we are considering today, is mainly due to changes in European legislation, which must also be duly reflected in national legislation. The proposed amendments essentially harmonise Slovenian legislation, which requires the deletion of certain provisions which are contrary to the RICH Regulation or which duplicate the mandatory undertakings, in particular the deletion of the chapter, the application of new substances and the amendment of Article 30. Of course, the aim of this law is also to secure the storage of chemicals, as well as adequate construction of chemical safety facilities, with a comprehensive assessment of the consequences that the intended intervention could have on the environment. Including any negative consequences that dangerous chemicals may cause. Biomonitoring is also introduced, which is defined by the law as monitoring the presence of chemicals and their degradation products in humans and organisms. This is important because Slovenia is strong as a country with a relatively strong chemical industry. This is mainly an important pharmaceutical industry and, of course, this biomonitoring also has the objective of obtaining data. Data on actual human and organism burdens with hazardous chemicals and consequently the possibility of action where such load is too high. In the SDS Group, on the basis of the above, we will undermine the proposal for amendments and additions to the Chemical Act, which aims to improve human health and the environment, as well as preventative action, with the possibility of reducing the effects of dangerous chemicals on human health and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, we will vote on the amended draft law today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the twentieth item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendment and Supplementation to the Law on Organisation and Financing of Education and Education. Short-term. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Defend Grimes for further explanation of the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. The Committee on Culture, Education and Sport considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education at its meeting on 10 January of this year. Members and members of the Committee have been informed of the applicant's additional explanation and the opinion of the Government, which in its written and oral opinion recalls that two serious errors have occurred in the drafting of this article under the Government Act, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, namely, that the group of Members has deleted the paragraph protecting the victims, i.e. the children. So the victims, and in particular the victims of sexual delinquency, before the fact that they have become victims of a crime becomes clear. In addition, a provision has been added to the government proposal which would automatically result in the loss of certain rights of any employee in education and education who are merely in criminal proceedings. In view of the above, since this could obviously also be constitutionally contested, the Government did not support the proposed law. Furthermore, the members and members of the Committee also took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which also drew attention to the link between the proposed solutions and the disproportionateity of interference with the constitutional principle, including the constitutional principle of presumptions of innocence, which pointed out that restrictions on constitutional rights by legal theory, as well as the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, were permissible only if they were in accordance with the principle of proportionality. In addition, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also pointed out that there was ambiguity as to the determination of the duty of service, that she had informed the Minister of Legal and Judicial Decision and that the employer’s obligations regarding his duties were insufficiently clearly defined, i.e. when and how, in what way, to prohibit the continuation of the work of the person against whom the criminal procedure had been instituted. It is also the view of the representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service that the provisions relating to the status of the worker or his or her right, which go from the labour law to the jurisdiction of the judgment, are insufficiently clear. Despite the fact that we have discussed all of this at the meeting, a number of members and members have assessed that, although the law is not appropriate, it has also been tabled in an obviously inadequate manner with the wrong title, but has been allocated for consideration, which is an interesting precedent. However, the majority of the members and members felt that this debate was a valuable contribution because, for the first time, we have highlighted two; that there is also a government novel very good solution that protects children, and for the second time that these provisions can be further improved when we consider this law, and that this treatment constitutes an acquisition for the safety of children. Finally, in view of all the legal and other comments made on the proposal, and in particular concerning concerns about the apparent constitutional dispute of certain solutions, the majority of the members and members of the Committee have adopted a decision proposing that the law is not suitable for further consideration and that we invite the National Assembly to adopt this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother labour body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State with co-worker. Well, obviously the precedents are something that's going on in this one, I'm not just going to tell the National Assembly, I'm going to tell the Parliamentary Chamber. I thought I was listening to a presentation of the position of the SDS Group, not a report of the parent's working body. It's very unfair, Mr Grims, the esteemed president of the mother's labour force. It's not fair because I've witnessed the events on this working body myself. Finally, I am the first to be signed under the law, and you know how incomplete the law was, how bad the copy had the law I must remind you, there were experts involved in the marriage. [[...]] And not SDS experts, but experts from the Faculty of Law and also from the Government an independent authority to access information of a public nature. That's what you forgot to say! On the other hand, when we speak or talk about an incorrect procedure, the imperfection of content, the wrong title of the law You know what we have adopted at an extraordinary session, the law tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a child allowance which misquotes the article of the Constitution. [[...]] Instead of the 56th article, which discusses the special rights of children in our country, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wrote an article about the situation and special rights of the Roma community in Slovenia. But no one mentions this inadequacy that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia allows. This law protects all children in our country, all children from the worst forms of crime, crime, sexual violence, education and education. And I believe that, given that she was present at the meeting of her mother's working body, the Secretary of State also knew what we were talking about, that she knew what the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, which she, at the first stage, had really warned about certain shortcomings, had also raised a few questions, and I believe that with very clear answers, I was satisfied, which was finally apparent at the end of the debate, including the Legislative and Legal Service. And the Secretary of State said in the end: Yes, the content of the law is appropriate for reflection. While it is true that the decision of the parent working body is negative, I believe, I really believe that, despite the fact that the law will fall, I know that you have a voting majority, that any idea of this law will be included in the government proposal for a law. Because this content, which I have corrected myself with an amendment that the president of the working body did not want to consider, is not because he has decided to give a in-kind negative decision, the amendment corrects and significantly improves the content included in the government proposal for a law on the organisation and financing of education and education. So many, well-respected colleagues, about correctness or incorrectness. Believe me, this content that is in front of us today, and I'm sorry that this way, with its left hand, will be swept past the procedure, literally beyond the procedure, this content is a good content. If the situation in the field of legislation within the framework of education and education was really so glamorous or well regulated, then it should not be the case at Jarenin Primary School, but the Minister said clearly and loudly at that time: legislation does not allow me to act to remove the person who was in criminal proceedings from the educational process. This bill makes this possible. But it is not a violation of the constitutional principle of presumption of innocence, far from it. In our legislation there are exceptions, and I say that the area of education and education is a specific area to which exceptions must apply, as applicable, for example, within the framework of the Police Act. Police officers are also subject to suspension under special circumstances. Why can't we get such a suspension to protect our children?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Mrs. Alenka Svertz, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u24	Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, Dear Members and Members and Mr President! I will be very brief in the Government's opinion, because the government does not support these solutions in the law, because some of the solutions, as has already been said, are constitutionally or legally controversial. The government, as you know, has already introduced a law into the procedure which, in an appropriate and constitutional way, provides the right solutions. In the process itself, we also expect further initiatives and improvements to this article, which provides a simple objective for our children to be protected in the field of education and education in the case of such sexual offences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The issue addressed by today's amendment of the law has already been addressed by the government's proposal for a law on education and education financing, which was rejected at the end of last year. At that time, this article did not receive any special attention. But at the time it was more important whether it was 85 or 100% private school funding. We now have before us the proposal of Members of the Slovenian National Party to prohibit employment, as prohibited by work to all those suspected of a crime, that is sexual violence. In the opinion of the proposers, this law would accurately and effectively prevent employment in schools and in other educational institutions to all those who could, by their criminal acts, endanger children who were left behind during school. The bill prohibits the work of those who have been convicted of any criminal offence, as well as of those against whom proceedings are still pending in court. In doing so, the legal and legal service has pointed out that preventing employment is a matter of preventing people who are not proven to have no legal basis. As is not in line with the opinion of the legal profession and the public information authorities, a proposal for a law whereby data on defendants from court records would be transmitted to employers or to the competent ministry. In New Slovenia, we believe that the bill is well-intentioned and that the solutions proposed are only aimed at the welfare and safety of children. But unfortunately, as such, the proposal is legally without a basis and as such unacceptable. We also believe that Article 107a of the bill submitted by the Government addresses the employment of offenders in the field of education and education. Under this Article, it is impossible to employ criminals and so significantly reduced the possibility of our children being taught by so-called inappropriate people. Therefore, in New Slovenia, we will not support the proposed law, which will be voted on today. However, we will work to ensure that the Government proposal already mentioned above is adopted as soon as possible, which addresses it accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u28	Thank you very much again for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Members of the Slovenian People's Party cannot support the bill. Although it is the intention of the proposer to protect children from the perpetrators of the worst violence against children. The proposal for amendments to the law is not comprehensive and does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It is now only a partial copy of the bill prepared by the competent ministry. The proposal for a law that seeks to protect against the worst forms of violence against children differs from the Government's proposal in two amendments, which lead to the inadmissibility and unconstitutionality of this bill. It is an unacceptable breach of the constitutional principle of alleged innocence, an automatic loss of certain rights of any employee in education and education, not just of a teacher. We agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that restrictions on constitutional rights are permissible only if they are in accordance with the principle of proportionality. Even more unacceptable is the fact that the law does not contain a provision protecting victims, for example: sexual offenses before the fact that they have become victims of a crime becomes public. This paragraph was written in a government proposal at the express request of the Ombudsman. Some other provisions, such as the duty of service to inform the Minister of the legality and judicial decision, are also unclear, are insufficiently defined by the employer's obligation to prohibit the continuation of the work of the person subject to criminal proceedings. The status of the worker or his legal rights, which go to the jurisdiction of the judgment, is also unclear. For these reasons, Members of the Slovenian People's Party consider that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is already so that everything the opposition proposes, you reject after the defolk. This is an ongoing practice here in the National Assembly, and today we will also have to deal with it. Of course, this law is not bad and protects the most endangered and least protected environment of our society, these are children. If we were only aware of what this law could bring, this law today would not have such a presentation by the president of the MDT, as has been said, but would have been properly explained what we were talking about there. Of course, if I go down to talk and talk to the board. Look, the suspension can't be equal to failure. We have made it clear on the committee that we must take all the maximum measures of protection when it comes to someone who can make a difference over children. If a legal action is brought and the law enforcement authorities prosecute a person who works in education, but it is reasonable to take measures and suspend such a person temporarily, move him away from the centre and prevent the recurrence of the event and thus prevent the possibility of another crime being committed elsewhere from saying anything worse. These things are usually silenced. You know that. It doesn't come into the public domain, and so much more surprised me when I actually looked into the fact that according to official data, the police in the Republic of Slovenia are essentially making major abuses in this area every year. And they're actually abused by girls under the age of 15. Even in the church it happens, but you read the press, because you see priests are actually rapists. That's also true, but maybe that's why you don't want to talk about it today, maybe that's why you keep your eyes closed with both hands and you don't want to adopt this law, which isn't at all controversial, there's nothing here in violation of the law, ladies and gentlemen. This law is good. I'd do maximum child protection. An essential novelty in this law is that the court must, by means of a judicial judgment and a decree establishing the existence of a criminal offence which is prosecuted under an official duty, speak on an official duty, essentially unconditionally, for a period of more than six months, to the educational institution in which the convicted person is employed, a prohibition of post-employment. Here's the point of this marriage. And the essence of this law is that all procedures that are in the pre-trial procedure and are governed by official duties are suspended for this worker who works in such a institution or school, and you do not want to accept it. Why not? Please tell me why not. Because you don't care about children because you don't care about protecting children in the way they have the right to protection. Or because there are priests among the rapists. Or perhaps because of this, a respected secretary of state. That's a fact. I express disappointment and petty anger at what you do. You're putting everything we want under the carpet in a non-chalant way to make it better. No norm has been established in this area, no norm. And through our former colleague, our parliamentary group has introduced a quality law that we have all signed and we stand for what is enshrined in this law. I don't know why we can't change our minds today. Be reasonable once in a while. Isn't that possible? The last sentence might convince you, but I don't believe you, because you have clear instructions. Imagine that your children will have children or that you may have children so young that they may be abused. I wouldn't want that to happen to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor, on behalf of the group of unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u32	Thank you very much again. I'm actually going to continue where I ended up, even though I have to say that more or less I said what I wanted to say. When I also listened to the words of the Secretary of State today, I believe that there was a deadlock in words on purpose. I believe that it is aware of the importance of the content and how essential the content of the basic proposal of the law is to be supplemented in the form of an amendment. Allow me to summarise very briefly the law between the solutions proposed to ensure that a person against whom a criminal offence against sexual inviolability has already been instituted cannot conclude a contract of employment or a contract whereby a person would like to work in the framework of education and education. In the case of persons who are already employed or have a contract of employment in educational institutions, criminal proceedings in the field of sexual inviolability may be obtained by temporary suspension or removal from the workplace where they are directly involved with children. This is an important novelty, or step away from government law to greater child protection, for respected colleagues and colleagues. Let me tell you whether we can really comfort ourselves simply by stating that there is no legal basis under Slovenian legislation for the time being for protecting our children when it comes to a person to be a teacher, a teacher or a school worker who comes into direct contact with children and is facing him with a criminal procedure against sexual inviolability. A colleague of Uhan's, or we can only be satisfied with the fact that there is simply no legal basis and we are the legislative branch of power. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is the legislative branch of the legislature which adopts laws gives legal basis. We are a subordinate branch of the executive branch of power unfortunately, Comrade Tanko, because you are calling while I am trying to seriously discuss matters. I believe it's too serious. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u33	Ms. Tavsheva [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u34	Sexual violence against children [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u35	Ms. Tavsheva [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u36	Respected colleagues and colleagues to be ridiculed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u37	Mrs. Barbara, or I may interrupt you for a moment. It is difficult in your debate to challenge other Members to respond if they do not have this option. Please, if you don't do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Believe that it is also very difficult if the leader of the SDS Group with a smile on his face disturbs you while you are discussing serious matters, Mr President-in-Office. It truly grieves me that the parental committee, the Committee on Education, Culture and Sport has not been able to do so much, and I will say the moral responsibility to allow the debate on the belief that one of the most important topics is one. It's protective legislation, that's all. Protective legislation, that is what should guide the heads of all Members when we decide on our children. And it grieves me so much more because I know that there is a double morality in this House. Yesterday we witnessed her when one of the representatives of the SDS said, and I will read his literal record: "It is clear that no law proposal is ideal, so the procedure in Parliament is such that it is possible to build up the law in several stages and once it is as well harmonised and refined as possible, it is finally accepted and so is possible now." But this same party in Parliament has prevented further procedures in this law. I have tabled an amendment on my mother's working body. Once again, the proposal for an amendment, which was coordinated, with an independent authority to access information of a public nature. I believe she's an expert in this field. In what way, to whom, under what conditions and above all what information can be transmitted. The law would be significantly improved if respected colleagues and colleagues allowed it to do so in this part. As far as I'm concerned, you say the law is constitutionally controversial. And you didn't allow the law to be perfected in this part, because you said in the procedure, "No. The law is not suitable for further consideration." The amendment may be added to the text. This is the word that removes any doubt in the constitutional dispute. I can say that in the field of education and education, special conditions can be met so that a suspension can be reached for the person against whom a criminal procedure against sexual inviolability is instituted. It saddens me that the marriage will fall today. But that's the kind of power you have in Parliament. But think about it. Think about it. In a month we will decide on this content within the framework of government law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. I'll design it at the beginning so there won't be any problems. I would ask you to ensure optimal conditions or complete peace in the Chamber when it comes to presenting the views of individual parliamentary groups. Regardless of the fact that this peace is prevented by the representatives of the largest government parties. Either the SDS or the NSI or anyone in this room. Parliament is to make sure that we listen to our views. Not to exclaim from a bench like someone used to do in elementary school. But if you'll allow me further explanation on this procedural proposal. Children are our greatest wealth, so we should listen even more and not scream. Unless a single source of funding of a single government client does not allow and wants children to remain unprotected, as it has so far been, given that the largest [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] It's straight from them. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u41	Mr. Zagorac, thank you very much. You've made a procedural proposal. I agree. It works for everyone. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Branko Grims on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u42	Also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, a very nice greeting to all. To all of you who have just so warned that we have children and where our concern for their safety is, in the SDS Group we answer that you yourself have had the opportunity to show your concern for the safety of children by voting "for" the government proposal of the ZOFVI which you attacked and that you will have this opportunity again when you consider the proposal in a month's time, reinstated the government's proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, and that you will see quickly who is responsible for the safety of children. However, in order for the picture to be complete, I must stress, given the sharpness and inadequacy of some of the debates, because at the end of the report I gave earlier on behalf of the committee, I did not say anything but read what the report says. And you can trust me not to write it, but to work. To make the picture clear, let me tell you how this proposal really came about. When we discussed at the last meeting, at that time in connection with the veto, the government proposal for a law on the organisation and financing of education and education, I pointed out that the vote "for" that law is also a voice for greater child safety, because that law contains an article that protects children from the worst crimes, including pedophiles. I used that popular term "anti-pedophilic article." He followed the cry and scream of the opposition's part, not just one, but the opposition's part that such an article is not even in law. And the one who cried out most loudly that the article that would protect children from the worst crimes in this law was not at all and that I was lying was Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, who then wrongly copied and signed that article and presented it as her own law. This was also put in the wrong way because it had the wrong title of the law. So much so that the crystal painting will be clear about what's going on and how this proposal came about. It was therefore necessary to take this law very seriously, because it is a topic that we all know is important to interfere with the protection of human rights, on the one hand, of those who are most in need of such protection, namely children and, on the other hand, of all others affected by this law. All of this must be taken into account and based on that fundamental legal principle, which has also been duly pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, is a principle of proportionality. In view of all these aspects, this proposal has proved to be in no way appropriate. Even that work that was in the government's proposal, in the government's ZOFVI, complemented by an agreement with the Ombudsman, which would prevent the victim of the worst crime, the perpetrator of pedophilia, from becoming public, from being released from this law. Simply here in view of this story, which I hope is now clear enough that those who attacked the government ZOFVIJ did not really know what it says and then did little to protect the children, but when I warned them about it I was attacked as someone who was not telling the truth, those who were not able to make the right law themselves, now certainly do not have any basis for criticizing us because we want to make a law that will fully regulate this area and will mean the protection of children, but at the same time settle many other things. For this reason, we will not support the SDS Act in the SDS Group. We will vote in favour of the decision of the parent working body. Of all those who have spoken in favour of children today, which we respect and appreciate, we expect you to equally support the Government's Proposal for a Law on the organisation and financing of education and education that will be before you in the coming weeks. That's when the moment of truth will come for all of us. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Although Mr Grims, you, too, cannot be held accountable by Mrs Žgajner. We're moving on. Ma'am mag. Expenditure on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! If I compare today's debate in this Chamber with that of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, I would like to see at least my constructive promise of government representatives that they will try to follow the good purpose of the bill today. We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing, which should be amending the law on the financing of education and education, which is essentially affecting a single article concerning the prohibition of the conclusion of a labour relationship. In the Group of Social Democrats, we regularly follow the efforts of the first signed to protect as accurately as possible the physical integrity of children, which I hope are not only a constitutional value, but also a value in our public and social life. That is why we have considered and read a proposal for a law, which in its original form has indeed also been the subject of concerns from the Legal and Legislative Service, but the amendments tabled have eliminated some of the shortcomings and could therefore, after careful consideration and following the legislative and legal procedure, also be eliminated with additions and improvements in their entirety. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the entire legal profession is not collected and that it is legally collected not only in government legal services, but that it is a large part, if not a large part of legal knowledge and profession, of which outside government services. Therefore, it seems to us that the proposaler's efforts to gain the opinion of legal experts and others dealing with child safety must be attracted to him and that everything should be done to ensure that, because it seems that the law will not receive support, the law on the organisation and financing of education and education will be done on the basis of a government proposal for a law on the organisation and financing of education and education of all that is currently missing from this proposal. Indeed, it is not a fact that the proposal for a law refers to only one article, but already an argument for rejecting this proposal. Because in this mandate we have faced five amendments to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education several times, I think. However, extreme cynicism for the Social Democrats is to listen to or make statements that in the rejected proposal for a law on the organisation and financing of education and education, we have not seen an article in which the government proposal has improved the solution so far. I think it is a cheap demagogy and a recriminal blame on those who have dared to challenge the government's proposal for a law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Nor do such allegations, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, obliterate the conclusion that the protection of children and the knowledge that acts against the sexual inviolability of children are often repetitive in some persons, need to be ensured in order to prevent the possibility of continuation of such an action within an activity which is intended or directed at children in general. It would therefore be appropriate to find solutions together that would allow the execution of sentences and would also lead to even more complete protection for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Grimes, procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you. In view of these strong vehement indications as to who is speaking the truths that are constantly expressed at my expense, I propose that you order the services to make a print of a magnetogram of the meetings of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport at the time of the agenda, when the government proposal of the ZOFVI has been considered after the veto of the State Council, and to distribute it to Members and Members and representatives of the seventh force, that they will be able to see for themselves who is telling the truth and who is not, and that it is indeed, that part of the opposition, and that the most loudest was Barbara Žgajner Tavš, that there is no such article as I said in that bill at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u47	Okay, thank you very much. It's gonna happen. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. If we continue at this pace, I suggest we suspend the session for five, ten minutes, so that we can all clear our heads and minds together. The views of Comrade Grims are unfounded if Comrade Grims does not understand what the article is under the Education and Education Financing Act, which discusses the protection of children against sexual inviolability, then this is his problem. If he says all perpetrators of crimes against the sexual inviolability of pedophiles are also his problem. But he's obviously very bad at this sort of thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you very much. You know that the program for today's session has been scheduled, it's been scheduled for an exact minute, it's all going as it was written, and we didn't get ahead of anything. There is nothing wrong with me, so I am putting an end to this debate and by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 20th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Period of the day - this is firstly a proposal for a bill to subsidize diet in the context of a regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the bill for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the minister and his associates. Nice greetings to all fellow Members and also to the public. For the third time, I signed under the law as the first to be signed to systematically organise and finance the student diet. I signed twice under a similar proposal in my previous mandate and now also in this mandate. First, we tried to arrange the student diet under the Student Diet Act, and secondly, we tried to regulate the student diet by means of a separate Student Diet Act. Both attempts ended in a slaughterhouse. They were rejected. Despite their good intentions, they had no chance of success, for the then Minister Gaber and the coalition, which stood firm behind him, rejected both marriages smoothly. Later in this government's mandate, while the opposition has already tried to add some of the funds to increase the funds for the student diet to the enlarged items proposed by the Government in the budget. However, they did not mean any serious purpose of the system’s arrangement, but they were even more speculative, more of a conversation point. If I am more precise, these resources, the increased resources could not even be distributed because there was no legal basis for the distribution of the additional funds, as there was no legal basis, since there was also a provision for the regulation, in what way these funds could be allocated and to which. As it is said, ensuring quality student diet has remained a serious problem all the time. This problem is seriously and has long been warned by parents, cautioned students, cautioned school and health professionals. Of course, an artificial question is asked several times about how to deal with the survival of the student’s diet. Or first create ideal conditions and then provide resources for this or first provide a system of provision of student nutrition, provide resources and then parallel to secondary schools and secondary schools to equip them according to the possibilities and also find suitable facilities. I am of the opinion that we must take the last step to ensure that all students have a warm meal as soon as possible with the next school year, as this is necessary for a variety of reasons, including for health reasons. At the same time, updating and upgrading of kitchen units or food dispensers should be systematically undertaken. There are no valid reasons not to join the diaphragm diet. Unfortunately, it is only possible that we have not dealt with this problem before, especially when we have dealt with a very similar problem in the previous term when we were regulating student diets. But I would like to point out that students are in a worse position than students. The students’ schedule is packed, usually divided into 6-7 hours of continuous daily duties, with compulsory attendance at the course. If there are blank holes in the schedule, this time of absence shall be extended accordingly. In a much worse situation, however, there are those students who are forced to drive to high school. These usually lose another to three hours an extra day. For all this time of absence, between six and a minimum of ten and eleven hours, a larger break of twenty minutes to half an hour is available. At that time, those who decide to buy a fast meal of fast food will have the opportunity. Nowhere or nowhere is it possible to get a quality meal of adequate nutrition. It's called a hot meal. What are the consequences, I can say liquid and long-term, due to inadequate nutrition during this four-year youth period, or three to four years of puberty, is probably not necessary to stress in particular. All experts and all studies, without exception, say that the consequences are large and inadequate student diets. That they are negative and that the consequences are also long-term. The law is the first step in regulating this area in order to take this area seriously. The consideration in the National Assembly may show that there is still something else to be completed or amended in this text. I am sure that someone else will find a choice or a better proposal. At the same time, however, I am sure that this problem needs to be addressed. This law provides a subsidy for a warm meal of a student at the same height as we give it to the students. Currently, it is 2.35 euros, or 2.39 euros. This means a subsidy for each day of the student’s presence in the school year, provided that he has more than half the school attendance. For a student who fulfils all these school obligations, this means about €450 of annual subsidy, annual aid. This I think is an important contribution that this country can make to the families of children in secondary schools. If the family has two children, this subsidy means approximately EUR 900. And in fact, I think that there should be no problem in supporting this law, because in this period of the last six months, when some inflation trends have turned, this is said to have somehow raised inflation, we have listened to a lot of words, how and how we need to do something. Today, we have the opportunity to do something concrete and that, given that economic growth is the one that makes budget revenues work better, it is possible to better implement the social state, so that this National Assembly can also contribute to a serious approach to addressing this problem. We will most likely also propose a supplement that will ensure the introduction of a student food subsidy by the next school year, which is from September 1st, but also means that this government will also be the one to assume its first commitment under the burden of the budget for this purpose. And I'd like to say that, if we can, we'll make sure of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Secretary Dr. Beast.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u52	Thank you very much for the statement, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear Members and Members. Last week, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia discussed the legislative initiative of the Group of Members, with First-signed Member Jozet Tank, and adopted an opinion on this law in which it supports this law. There are several reasons for this. In fact, the student population is the one for which the Institute for Health Protection of the Republic of Slovenia, the Centre for Health Promotion, in the last study analysis, finds that the eating habits of adolescents are poor eating habits of adolescents, an increasingly serious problem also for the whole public health system, not just for them. More than an important message that we are starting to think that this system needs to be complemented or modified. It is a fact that the state subsidises secondary school nutrition, for example, with an amount of €4 to 5 million per year, and does not eliminate significant weaknesses in the eating habits of young people by means of this social contribution. Finally, this segment is somewhat neglected by the country. In particular, the fact that students who are subject to a different regime are different models is essential to a better one than the part of the youth, the part of the population that should be most concerned about healthy diets. The fact is that the pattern of such behaviour does not depend solely on the financial means, on how much the State will or will not contribute. However, we can certainly consider it almost certain that a larger subsidy will also affect changes in dietary habits in adolescents. Finally, these funds will also constitute additional funds or an additional contribution of public finances to the school system. I am confident that this will also have a beneficial effect on the well - being and on the work or learning of the secondary population. For the model for which you have decided, we have, say, logistical preconditions. In Slovenia, only 13% of secondary schools are unable to provide a suitable meal for students, 40% of schools have their own kitchens, 5% of schools have food from their centres and 42% have a distribution kitchen. With a slightly more active role in investing in such conditions, improving such conditions, it would soon be possible, without any major effort and without a longer period of time, to ensure normal conditions that this right of students could be achieved without major difficulties. I'm sure you've decided on the right model, only a bona fide system, like students have, is not good, not convincing. Surely this model that you have chosen will have a more positive impact on the change in poor eating habits in adolescents. We have done a lot in this area in recent years. As you know in the area of education, we have tried, because of the poor data, with various examples of good practice, such as apples and the like, to influence this, but I think the comprehensive solution is the law you have proposed, but the articles you have proposed will need to be complemented and amended significantly, including with regard to the role of the state, the supervision of the ministry. Personally, I would like to keep the social adjustment still in place, which means that this supplement by the State would be an addition to the already existing system of subsidisation of the student diet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u54	Hello again. In Novi Slovenija, the Law on the Subsidisation of Student Nutrition was signed with one purpose to enable students to have a regular, warm meal to get used to healthy eating, and in particular to have all students, regardless of social status, access to lunch. The marriage is at first reading. The opposition's perception that this is an election move by the coalition does not count among students and parents. Such a law has already been introduced twice in Parliament, but it has not received support, even though the electoral year has always followed. We were also co-signers from New Slovenia at the time. It is important for children and parents to have an organized diet, quality and regular diet and that it is also financially accessible to them. In New Slovenia, we have a serious intention of regulating this properly and providing funds in the budget as soon as possible, regardless of which governments will have to do so later. In Novi Slovenija we believe that the law needs to be improved properly, complemented in particular in order to organise nutrition exclusively in schools, as is the case in primary schools, and that above the composition, the quality is appropriate professional supervision. Whether it will be cooked or just distributed in schools, it is a matter of rationalisation and organisation. For us, it is important that students feed on school premises. Students cannot leave school premises during the day and eat in inn, restaurants, and even less so that they can then stay there in the afternoon instead of going home as soon as possible. If we don't fix this, we can do more damage than profit. We are also counting on the fact that meals should not be encouraged in this account because they will be co-financed. In particular, we point out that the kitchen, restaurant, food establishments do not yet have their own pot. It is therefore necessary to define more precisely what kind of meals should be co-financed. It is necessary to focus on introducing the law to students the possibility of a warm, healthy, balanced meal needed for their development. We are all aware that young people prefer to eat fast food, that it is trendy, for example, to eat hamburger, fries, Coca Colo, while forgetting that we are parents, teachers, adults who should make sure that our children themselves are aware of the importance of healthy nutrition for their own development. We are confident that the right approach in students would encourage the belief that the offer of a warm meal is important. This is especially important at a time when children spend all day in school, while at the same time parents are mostly employed throughout the day, so the meal was only a rare meal at home. In New Slovenia we support this law. Once again, we would like to point out that it is important that subsidised meals be shared within school premises and not in restaurants near school. Suitable solutions would be arranged dining rooms within schools, since these schools should already have existing legislation. This would also potentially reduce the misuse of the sale of vouchers or for other purposes, as students would spend the vouchers themselves, while joint lunches would also mean some socializing, getting acquainted and so on. Of course, it should be stressed that food subsidies also represent financial burdens for parents who pay lunch for their children and for students who pay lunches from their scholarships. I am sure that parents will also find approval, because they are mostly employed and will be less than one concern, both financial and where and when their child will eat. The law on co-financing of the student diet, according to New Slovenia, represents an important step towards raising young people, a healthier one, and in particular a regular and financially favourable diet for secondary schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The members of the Slovenian People's Party have also signed under the proposal for a law on the subsidisation of the diocese's diet. The area of student and student affairs is a very sensitive area because of the population concerned. The policy objective is to enable our young people to have the conditions for the best possible quality of life and development. Another important thing is that we have to treat all schoolchildren the same way, both primary schoolchildren and students. I am sure that we forget students too much, and this is probably due to the fact that in some sense we do not put them in the same position as students, because they still live with their parents who care for them for most of them. At today’s rapid pace of life, this is not easy and students are left to themselves and their ingenuity, including with regard to diet, which is mostly made up of sandwiches and fast food. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that it is also necessary to take care of the diet of students, as this part of the schooling population has so far been overly neglected in this regard. In Slovenian primary schools, nutrition is well regulated, balanced and suitable, and subsidised nutrition is also provided to students. It's different about the students. Most high schools don't even have their own kitchen. It is true, however, that quite a few students around the school offer meals, which are mostly fast food. However, students also need at least one hot meal and a healthy meal a day, so the proposal for this law is more than welcome in our opinion. It is not right to make differences between schoolchildren of different ages. To all, regardless of their place of residence, age, or school they attend, the country must ensure the best conditions for learning. We all know that proper and healthy nutrition is the most essential fuel for young people who spend a lot of active time in schools and at school. We always say that young people are our hope. Now's the time to show it to them. Years ago a study was carried out, which is mentioned in the bill. Regardless of the fact that it focused only on specific samples of students in the Celje region, it shows quite a picture of the state of Slovenian students in the field of nutrition. The results are shocking and, in some ways, predictable. For we all know that the student diet situation is disorderly and pushed aside. We believe in the Slovenian People's Party that it is essential to ensure to all students the right to one subsidised meal or lunch per day and thus to equalise them with the rights of students. In doing so, it is important that, wherever possible, facilities are organised in schools or in their immediate surroundings. Given that most secondary schools, with the exception of a few exceptions, do not have spatial conditions, we tend to have the idea that the student diet system would work in a similar way as the student system. This would allow students to buy student vouchers and to eat in or near school. As far as the providers of the student diet are concerned, we believe that the public tenders and concessions awarded to such tenderers are a good solution. Particular attention should be paid to the implementation of the diet and the granting of concessions. Transparency of procedures is the first condition. This is the only way to ensure that our students receive quality and fair treatment. We have only a few concerns about Article 8 which says that the beneficiaries of a subsidised meal are only students who are present in the educational process at least half of the prescribed daily school obligations. In the absence of instruction, however, there is no justification for a subsidised meal. This raises the question of who will control all this. In our view, the contractor himself will not be able to perform effectively with his records. It is very difficult to imagine that data on the absence of certain students from school would be up-to-date, as far as the entire student population is concerned, or that they would be regularly recorded. In practice, this provision is somewhat hazy and, in our view, ineffective, I hope that we will find a better solution to this issue. In general, the law is welcome and will bring our students additional conditions for a better stay and also for learning. The things I have already highlighted, I think it would be good to correct with the amendments and thus make the law even better and even more transparent. Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group will therefore vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u58	Colleagues, fellows! The first person to sign the law today said that there should be no problem in supporting the marriage. Indeed, any problem that would have voted against the gifts of Santa Claus or against the great breadth of this law would have been. With this law, the proposer will, and as I can see, also the Government, lay down a table from which it will not be eaten for two years. After three years of rule, respected colleagues and colleagues, just before the elections, you are proposing a law that will offer every student and student a warm meal a day. Indeed, the table for a warm meal will not be covered in two years, but all with all the goodwill and all the beautiful thoughts and promises. But in these three years, you've rejected so many amendments that I've collected that we've invested to increase the share of money for food, not just in high school, but in public school at all. There is not a single magnetogram where any of those who are now under the law would support these amendments. Mr Minister, neither did you define yourself as an amendment, but you were talking about some demographic changes that are taking place in education, which is why there are fewer entries and therefore more money in public education. You've been quiet for three years, and now you're coming up with a law that won't apply until two years later when you may not have any more responsibility. And because of this it is very difficult for us to comment on the law at all, of course it is not a problem to support it, but to understand it as a serious, credible solution and also a well-intentioned one and also to take into account all these beautiful words you mention. Indeed, Mr Tanko, you have said that you may have decided in the course of the debate that the law would enter into force in the second year. There's a balance in between. Great economic results, economic growth, in between is a rebalancing where ministries will be forced to take and cut their budgets, because we have changed certain laws, so-called Draganjian laws in the meantime. I do not believe you, we find it difficult to believe such promises in the party, which also makes it difficult for us to face the beautiful words and good thoughts you put in this proposal. In 2010, it will be necessary to provide 38 million more money if each student is to obtain a voucher for almost 2 euros and a half, or 2,35, 2.34 euros. Almost 10 times as much funding will be needed as is provided for this purpose in 2009. The purpose is good, the reality is different. And before the elections it is certainly very demagogic to face the responsibilities that are being translated far into the future. But there are other problems, or other questions, that may be good. We all want not only healthy but also affordable food. We all want schools to be so organised that, let's say, this law doesn't think, because logistics, not just a teaching schedule and a schedule, but also a space that can satisfy the achievement of these vouchers and, as a result, nutrition. But there is a logic on the head that the state of Slovenia has followed in the policy of nutrition and subsidisation, which also follows the current provisions of the ZOFVI, a law that allows already today to prevent amendments from being tabled in the past, because they would not have a legal basis, even today the ZOFVI allows students and students to become more accessible to food, can also be in 100% or most form, as you suggest. But in the budget for 2008, 2009 you did not guarantee this and you were silent when we wanted to ensure it. It is a good promise if it were real, as I say, and if the situation in the country allowed, not only for the high school system, but already in compulsory school, for all to have a warm meal. What I said earlier is that so far it has been financed and subsidised in terms of social status or how much social differences in the Slovenian space need to be covered, but accessibility is now possible for everyone. On the other hand, there is another problem. We could also ask ourselves why the current government is significantly reducing the share of the resources allocated to education in the budget, as we know that if in 2005 4.8% of GDP was earmarked for education, in 2009, only 4.3% was allocated to education. It is said that in 2009, there are as much as 150 million euros less money for education than in 2000. You might also wonder why these amendments were rejected, as I said. And we could also ask ourselves why something is offered that isn't tomorrow, but only to the day after today. But let's just say we forget about all these dilemmas. Let's just say it's an election year. Let us ask, however, whether this system could already be secured within this law. What is worth considering in the future is whether, given the real capacity of the country, it is not possible to better meaningfully subsidise those who are most needed of a warm meal, even in primary school, and gradually increase funds to the desired optimism. It is appropriate to consider whether the forms offered by you in the law, even at the logistical level, are correct and accessible and whether the establishment, which is also going on with this law, is accessible to all citizens, regardless of social and social status, of course, appropriate. Let me warn you that the contribution rate for student vouchers, as we hear, is decreasing. The Ministry of Labour has reduced student food vouchers this year and let me remind you once again that yesterday, when we talked all day about the landscapes, you proposed a system that will require complete ventilation until the last act of the establishment of the public institution and is expected to come into force as early as 1.1.2009. Consider whether this system, as you offer it, would apply not only to secondary schools but also to compulsory schools and to anyone else before, if the intention is truly sincere. In this case, then, it is also worth counting on more support from these considerations than this bill, which we understand as a pretty demagogic move, will receive the appropriate support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Franc Žnidaršič on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u60	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group will support this law on diocese diet, as it has also signed it. There is no doubt that the content law is intended to ensure a healthier diet for students, although we are aware that we do not completely save healthy meals with one meal alone, but it is better than that students are practically fed only with fast food and superficial food throughout the day. And this guaranteed meal will have an important impact on a healthier way of life in this sense. It is true, however, that many secondary schools will face severe problems this year in providing conditions for the preparation, distribution and provision of hot meals at schools as such if the amendment is in force. A lot of schools just won't be able to do that even if they had the resources. From this practical point of view, the implementation of the law in the coming autumn makes more sense. With regard to the pre-election effect, however, it would be better for it to take place immediately as early as tomorrow and all the campaign until autumn. The problem of finance this year is out of the question if the second year is in force. However, if the government finds this money, it must be said that we will be amazed, because for half the cost it did not support the Social Transfers Act, when it comes to hungry, even for those who do not have a healthy diet, for the sick, for the poor, for those on the deathbed it was not possible to provide the poor EUR 20 million. For healthy children we must provide food and therefore have no objection, but this difference in the work of the Government, not us. We support that and that, we don't want to do anything good for just one, so we supported the student law, and so we introduced the Social Transfer Act so that those old people, the poor, the sick, could have better food, the bread, because they're on the verge. But it wasn't possible. From this point of view, we regret this matter. Otherwise, many words about it are too bad to lose. In the electoral year, we do not promise any vote with this law, but we support it from the fact that it is the nature of the thing that is worthy of support, not because of the period in which we are, and therefore our parliamentary group hopes that this authority will ever find a broader view of these things for all, not just some, to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Before continuing with the presentation of the views of the members of the groups, I inform you that all Members and Members and other interested parties already have a magnetogram of the first item of agenda of the 28th meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport of 10.1.2008. Since all magnetograms are available in the Lotus Notes programming environment and on the National Assembly website, the choir services also estimate that copies of the magnetogram do not need to be divided into ticks as promised mags. The Grimes on a procedural proposal at the previous item on the agenda. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Subsidisation of diet in the student environment is, of course, a desirable action. In view of the fact that students are already partially subject to a subsidy of 2.4 euros after the last correction of 1.1.2008, it is also necessary to ensure that in fact we receive partial food subsidies for the population that is not the most sensitive but is growing up. The most sensitive is the primary population and kindergarteners who do not have a fully subsidised diet, a little later. If I commit myself to what my predecessors have said, it is true that, in fact, the budget of the Republic of Slovenia by adopting this law, which we welcome today, will not be crippled and the government will not risk even a tolar. So it's not really going to be sufficient, it's not going to be a deficit on this side, and it can promise that. It is true, however, that this population is likely to be in the age-old phase and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the ruling parties are promising more if they are liked by young people. As has already been said, a warning from the Slovenian National Party to the Ministry of Education has called on us to reach this point in primary schools and kindergartens once we ask ourselves why the country does not fully subsidise the nutrition of children in primary schools and kindergartens. Why the competent Ministry of Education has not yet drawn up such a law that the State would fully subsidise the nutrition of primary and preschool children. This is, of course, a little strange given that our country is concerned about this particular population, the population of growing children. It is these children who are in the primary school and preschool education process in the process of growing up and in fact need 100% of attention. The ministry's answers, of course, can be: "We are subsidizing this." It is true that part of the food is subsidized in primary schools, but not in full for the students. The school diet is granted only to primary school students according to the rules on subsidisation of school meals. So the primary school can, by means of criteria designed to be based on the receipts of financial social assistance to families, the height of the child allowance for one or another child, the number of children in the family and, of course, the long-standing social status, the problematic status of the family, the school can decide whether or not to use it. I'm talking about elementary school. There's some guilt going on here. Now we have a model student diet, we regulate in two years, of course, this bonus belongs to the students, so you will not think that as soon as we accept and bless it, it will be valid. So the table will not really collapse until two years later and boast that we have done something, nor is it nice, because let's take a little look at history and we will see that a similar law has been introduced into the parliamentary procedure already in the previous term, signed by all the members of the Slovenian National Party, was not in the interest of the coalition to be adopted, but regulated this particular issue that I am talking about. And if we walk through this database system, which is available to us, what has changed, we can also quickly face the fact that at the beginning of this mandate there was a lot of desire and desire for this matter to be settled. And if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were to take this matter seriously, it would be settled at the beginning of the term not now, when it is time for candy and candy and chocolate. Today we're going to sell insurance companies, we're going to regulate the student diet, we're going to forget about primary school because this population doesn't matter, we're going to forget about the primary population, and of course that's not right. See, as has already been said, we in the Slovenian National Party support this law, we would like it to come into force earlier, but we know why it will not be, because then this surplus in the budget could not be - and this is what the Government is afraid of - at the same time, we appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to the Ministry of Education and Sport to prepare a law as soon as possible, with which we will also subsidize the nutrition of primary children and possibly children in kindergartens. By the end of the term, ladies and gentlemen, there are seven months left, if there is will and desire, we can do that. I'd like to ask you to become more up-to-date in this area as well. However, if this is not done in due time, we will require this law in the Slovenian National Party, because we cannot do so, we cannot supplement this content because it is the primary population. And we support this marriage, as we say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the group of unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Again for this speaker today, this time about, at first glance, the necessary topics. At first glance, I say because the content of the law does not speak of anything. Don't talk about what the law should be about. And when I got into the hands of this stack of paper sheets days ago, I was actually wondering what we're going to talk about today. How should a presentation of the position of the parliamentary groups sound, or at least of those who did not participate in the drafting of the law? I say it's a matter of a substantively empty law, respected colleagues and colleagues. Why? Because in fact, the only article or two articles that should talk about details: in what way, who is specifically entitled to the law, how the law will be implemented, how schools or schools will have to provide funds and, of course, also the conditions for the law to be implemented, and, in particular, who, in what way, will provide financial resources. These articles speak only of the Minister responsible for education laying down rules under the law. But we're not talking about the law today. We're talking about the law. I believe, however, that even the vast majority of the coalition parties signed under this proposal are not clear what this law will mean in practice. I ask: How will the law be realized? You know, this law is even written down, so let me read it. Article 8 of the Act states: "The beneficiaries have the right to one subsidised meal for each school day." And then it goes on to say, "In the absence of instruction, students are not entitled to a subsidized meal." Tell me how to determine the absence of students from school. The journal will be written, and then a student with a photocopy of the diary will go to, I don't know, the school dining room, submit a diary, and they'll say, "Yes, you were in school, you're entitled to a daily meal." These are matters that need to be clarified before we say that a respected colleague and colleague that the law is good or suitable for further consideration. I can fully agree that marriage is necessary. I can fully agree with the proposaler's assessment, at the outset, when he says that 'healthy, regular and proper nutrition is essential and extremely important for the key development and health of all individuals. It is especially important for children and adolescents." But let this be your guide, colleagues and colleagues, when you create the conditions for creating conditions for a healthy way of life for children. My friend Znidarsic told us what a double morale these governments or government coalitions are like. And I will refer here to the words spoken by the students of Slovenia's organisation some time ago. They welcome the law, too. After all, it is content or a law that cannot be opposed. I believe that the desire of all of us to have children in primary schools, in kindergartens and in secondary schools is, after all, a healthy diet organized to help them. But you know, the students in the same breath when they greet the law say, "Hungry healthy, satisfied old man." This phrase is so much more important because, some time ago, top government representatives made fun of people; they made fun of those who are hungry for health. At the expense of all of us being together fed up with the old man, even though it's old from the dumpsters. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa, we will support the bill. Nevertheless, I would like to get some clarifications; certain clarifications that I have already made in my opening doubts, and I believe that during the debate I will be able to put forward some additional ambiguity that is in conflict with any logic that is enshrined in this law. Above all, what matters is that it is not clear at this time. It is unclear how the State of the Republic of Slovenia will ensure the implementation of the laws. This is primarily about financial resources. Around €40 million is currently not provided in the budget. And you will say that the law will begin to be implemented, even though it was a wish to start a new school year, as far as I can remember. The law will begin to be implemented, as stated in the transitional and final provisions, with the school year 2009/2010 - during the new government period. The responsibility will be transferred. But I say that if we have someone who comes to Parliament with such an unfinished law, that there are no clear financial consequences, no conditions, no less ways of implementing this law, then it is completely irresponsible. Also from the Ministry's representatives. I believe that they today have more answers or details within the framework of, in particular, those sub-laws. Last but not least, this marriage, hand to heart, brings nothing. What it brings is a submarital act. The content of a submarital act is today to me, at least to me, a complete stranger. And before I give the word to the next parliamentary group, perhaps just one more: when we spoke at the previous point about how professionally they were prepared or whether laws were not prepared when the obviouss were flying across. During the explanation of the articles, Article 2 states that this law defines who is a student in the Republic of Slovenia. I hope that the coalition Members and Members will be able to find this definition within the framework of the article. What I have been able to find is who is that student who is eligible for food subsidies in the context of the regular educational process. As has already been said, in the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament, Lipa, we will attach, difficult to say content, we will enforce the law. However, I believe and hope that the content of the follow-up procedure in the framework of the National Assembly will be upgraded to such content that it can be acceptable and, above all, that it can be established in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. A nice greeting to the presence of colleagues, the representative of the Ministry! The bill was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Joseph Tank. The aim of the bill is to ensure to all students the right to one subsidised meal or lunch per day. This area is not regulated and the introduction of a system similar to that of students would be the best solution in terms of the spatial and other opportunities offered by secondary schools. In view of the changed way of life, education is also changing. Children are becoming increasingly burdened year after year, and there is still a lot of schooling in schools, and there is a lot of schooling in the morning and afternoon. The provision of one hot meal per day would mean a relief for both parents and students. This will take care of their regular and healthier diets, develop healthy eating habits, and later avoid many serious diseases. I'll support the marriage. I also appeal to the Ministry to arrange meals in schools and primary schools in an appropriate manner. And where to get the money. One or two armors less, and maybe sooner or later we'll find the money for this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u68	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! Healthy regular and proper nutrition is essential and extremely important for the development of an individual, and it is particularly important for children and adolescents. Healthy nutrition provides energy for growth and movement and provides better conditions for personal development. One study of factors that affect overwork and the absence of children from school is also inadequate and inadequate nutrition. The quality and health of the students seems particularly important to us, since they develop eating habits during this period. In this reference to Parliament, as well as in the previous ones, we have adopted several resolutions and guidelines that highlight and require healthy and quality nutrition, and we have all set ourselves together to improve our eating habits. Only healthy children and adolescents, with good eating habits, will be healthy adults. For example, eating habits acquired in youth are also passed on to later life. In Slovenia we have regulated meals in kindergartens, primary school diets, and students' diets have been exemplary, and in the field of student nutrition has not been much done so far, causing irregular and unhealthy diets of students. This has also been pointed out in some of the studies that have been carried out. This, however, causes both excessive body weight in adolescents and fatigue, difficulty in concentration, and others. Many students drive to high school far away and spend a lot of time on it. They return home in the late afternoon or at night, but they do not have the opportunity to go to lunch after finishing school, since there are no or no suitable offers for students. If there is an offer, students don't make decisions about it because it's too expensive because they have too short breaks and so on. The trend over the last 10 years shows an increase in the number of malnourished children, both in different age groups of children and adolescents as well as in girls and boys. Studies also show that students do not usually eat breakfast, miss meals, eat disorderly meals, and spend their money on unwholesome meals, snacks, and coffee. Even where there is a possibility of lunch or lunch, students do not show much interest or such habits and such a trend cannot be changed without financial incentive, i.e. a subsidised meal. On the question of whether we would choose a warm meal if we were subsidized and if the student paid only a small part, the students answer to decide for it, but of course we should have time and not just 15 or 20 minutes. In December 2007, we put coalition members with the first-signed Jozet Tank into the procedure in the National Assembly of the Law on the Subsidisation of Diagnostic Diet. With the law, we want to systematically regulate student nutrition in the same way as it is arranged for students, but there will be no need to introduce vouchers because in the case of students at individual schools, the contractor will normally be present. And not like a student diet that's scattered. Such a solution is also appropriate due to the specificity of schooling, where the schedule and teaching of secondary school students are otherwise organised than the schedule of students. During the school year 2006-2007, there were over 96,000 students and we feel we need to take care of their regular and healthy diet. To this end, we have written down in the law, which is a general act and will regulate certain areas in more detail with the rule of law, that in the invitation to tender the quality of food is considered as a priority criterion. In the field of secondary education, so far only food subsidies have been provided for students who are socially at risk. And so were the amendments that the colleague was talking about. By law, we want to allow all students to subsidise one warm meal for each day of study. An additional 10 meals would belong to pupils with special needs and students who fell into the war for Slovenia. The amount of the subsidy will be the same as that of the students and will be coordinated in the manner and within the time limit laid down by the law governing the coordination of transfers to individuals. Since it is students who have a different education than students, it will be necessary to ensure that a warm meal is provided at the time of school and normally within the school premises. Performers of the student diet would be secondary schools, as is regulated in primary schools. The Ministry would have control over the intentional, cost-effective and efficient use of resources and a competent inspection would have control over the implementation of the subsidised student diet. Schools would organize their own diet. As set out in the standards for nutrition for young people, children in kindergartens and primary schools, a set of meals with recommendations and proposals from food professionals will also be set for pupils. Cooperation with institutes and other researchers of food habits collect data on the health status of adolescents and the like, i.e. with the Ministry of Health, the Institute for Health Protection, health care institutions and others. Of course, a similar law could have been passed years ago by opposition Member Jože Tanko. The law was not supported by the then government with Minister Slavko Gabr, and so the field of diocese diet remained unregulated or left to regulation after individual secondary schools. Some high schools and centers also took care of this work, others less or less, and the students had to find themselves. Some high schools already have all the conditions for implementing the law. At the same time, it is necessary to say that some even have the conditions for preparing some 100 meals and prepares them 80 a day, so not all the options already in place today are exploited. And if the law had been passed years ago, all the dilemmas that appear in the media today would have been eliminated, how we will ensure kitchens, dining rooms, distribution rooms. The co-financing system would also have been lost, and perhaps today we could measure positive results. But it is never too late and it is time to bite into this apple and start with concrete steps, and we are finally committed to this by the Resolution on the National Food Policy Programme 2005-2010 and the Strategy on Physical Activity for Health Strengthening 2007-2012. Our parliamentary group has already met with representatives of the Diak Organisation of Slovenia, who support the law and stress the need to ensure conditions in secondary schools. The law was also supported by some youth and student organisations and groups, some high school principals, and positive responses were also received from individual students and parents. We wish the law in the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party a happy way, because we are confident that all Members and Members will vote for it in their care for the healthy and good nutrition of the students, including those who have not voted for it years ago, but who have not put their voices to the fore, have a strong emphasis on social sense and health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Expenditure on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Government officials are changing. Since I have already welcomed the Secretary of State, I now welcome the Director of the Directorate for Secondary Education. Our parents said that health goes through the stomach. Numerous institutions, as well as student research and surveys, insist that young people have poor eating habits. Probably because their parents don't have much better ones, as research does. Therefore, according to the Social Democrats, it is also possible to develop good eating habits in the education and education process, and therefore the Food Act on the organisation and financing of education and education has already focused attention and funding from the State budget. Therefore, of course, it raises a fundamental, fundamental question: Is it sufficient for the regulation of diet in all public institutions to be regulated in a specific law, but is it already within the framework of existing legislation, that these things are regulated in a sufficiently qualitative way, so that all the organisational details that will be used in the basic law can be determined by means of sub-legislative acts? And this is where the core of the problem begins. Would it not be more prudent to provide a warm meal first for children in kindergarten and primary school and gradually introduce a warm meal for secondary schools, consistent with the sustainability of public finances? Those who read legislation on a superficial basis are likely to overlook that there is no "warm" preference for primary school before a compulsory meal. This means that, while the compulsory meals are already taking place in primary school without a specific law. I therefore reiterate that it is not possible, then, to say as regards secondary education, that it can be regulated under existing legislation, but only resources must be provided. Not to say that the problem is that we don't have a marriage. At the same time, I do not compare myself with the Student Food Subsidisation Act, because it is now the responsibility of someone else, and also, given the organisation and progress of the study, matters need to be handled differently than in primary and secondary schools. But this fundamental question, whether we really need a special law on diabolical nutrition to regulate this area, the Social Democrats, this answer - because we do not think that a special law is necessary - will not prepare the proposal to oppose the law. However, we still have a number of questions on this bill. Let me tell you the first fundamental question. The resolution on the national food policy programme 2005-2010 entered into force in April 2005. Since then, this Government has had a time to have a fundamental finding of healthy nutrition and regular physical activity affecting the health of each individual and, at the same time, synergistic, also in the enhancement of the food item. What happened? The Health Apple Project was abolished, responding negatively to proposals to raise the food line if it was responding to anything, as they said their 'no' to these amendments. So one rightly wonders what the Government has been thinking about for so long and from where, all of a sudden, so enlightening that it will be able to find - with a light on the white day - an additional €38 million in the budget for, as it was said, regulating this area already since the 2008/2009 school year. Well, I must say, this is a really quick and effective knowledge. Coincidence wanted to be followed in the consideration of two parliamentary laws. There is no need to have any specific prophetic ability to know that these two parliamentary proposals will experience a different fate today. One will be rejected and the other will be accepted. But what could not be predicted is the demand of the applicants of the law under consideration after the general debate on this law. While it is perfectly clear that the law will be passed, with full support from the Government. The question now arises why the law of the Member States is needed. Is it possible that the Government ordered this law and the Members are just a front for which she is hiding because she was a budget proposalr? And the second question I am referring to the proposers of this law. Is it possible to give a general consideration to this law a play for the Slovenian public? Nothing in this bill is so consistently written that a person could say that the bill is prepared in accordance with the rules of procedure; the comparative review is prepared in a specific way; the explanation of the articles could be diminished because it is only a phrase that summarizes the content, so no article is specifically explained. A comparative overview, which is tabled, is a summary of the research task only in a way that is written "yes" and when a person goes to look at what the text says, it can be seen that things are very different and that it is difficult to say that "yes" "yes" steel. And it was very interesting to hear how the spatial situation should also be regulated, as if the applicants had not read Article 3 of their draft law. This suggests that food distribution and food preparation will be linked to the contract; that mutual relations, obligations and responsibilities between the provider and the operator will be governed by a specific contract. And here he says that "the provider carries out his activity in the premises of secondary schools, his premises, other suitable premises." If anyone can tell me that this is already so regulated by law that no more sub-law will have to be added, then I must say that I have a lot of problems with those "other suitable premises". And there will be little left of how the time to enjoy a warm meal should also be space and time to socialize with the students. How this will be aligned with the definition in which the restaurant can be opened around secondary schools, is another thing - if there are many problems in the distribution of food precisely in the fact that the teaching organisation is such, it is not comparable to the food options as it is regulated for students. All that is written in this law, while it is benevolent to understand that it comes from the knowledge that, as it is now, it is not good for various reasons. But as this law offers, it is - don't blame me - as the Slovenian proverb says: Don't sell your skin while the bear is in the lair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Ensuring quantitative and quality healthy nutrition is one of the important conditions for a healthy way of life for each individual, especially children and young people. We have been aware of this in the Liberal Democracy for many years, so we have placed in our programmes a systematic improvement in a rather unregulated area of nutrition in the field of education. That is why we have systematically engaged in regulating this area, and in a number of forms in recent years, this area has been regulated within the framework of basic education development programmes, where the area of nutrition, nutrition, ensuring healthy nutrition has been defined as an important element for ensuring a quality education process and a healthy lifestyle for children and young people. On the basis of these development guidelines, an appropriate Article was also laid down in the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, provided that this content was defined, while at the same time providing the State budget for subsidisation of school nutrition for pupils and apprentices in secondary schools, by establishing criteria, methodology and procedure for the allocation of funds. This approach introduced the principle of subsidisation for pupils and apprentices who were placed in a position because of their poor social situation so that they could not fully pay for it themselves. At the LDS, we have always advocated that we upgrade this solution. Therefore, in this mandate, we have also tried to add resources to the proposed amendments to address this problem in order to increase the proportion of those eligible for food subsidies in secondary education. Unfortunately, listening to this coalition did not share our opinion and rejected these amendments. Here I would like to point out that we have been looking at this problem all along. We did not see it as a pre-election activity of individual political groups, which we witnessed both in 2003 and 2004, and we are witnessing again in 2008. With what do I confirm this fact? We have taken healthy nutrition very seriously and, in the previous mandate, we have already prepared a national food policy agenda, which was adopted in this mandate, but the material, the contents were prepared in the previous mandate. Just remember, colleagues and colleagues, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, how you aligned yourself with all the amendments that went not only to provide additional funding for the field of subsidies; but how you dealt with the amendments that went into the field of ensuring the implementation of the resolution of healthy nutrition, where in the area of ensuring better public health conditions we proposed additional means to intensify this area. Moreover, when I advocated this amendment in one of the discussions here, I was ridiculed that the assembly of dining rooms in both kindergartens, secondary schools and primary schools is a small problem that we do not realize that organic food is one of the essential components of how we will provide quality and healthy food. No, you didn't want to deal with these problems in such a comprehensive way, but you fix it "ad hoc" every year just before the elections! It is not to be overlooked that we want to improve this area, and I, in fact, cannot place a lot of criticism on Members alone, given that we are also acting in pre-election time so that we can better settle any issue. What's the big deal? But he cares about the government's opinion on this issue. If we only remember the Minister's attitude at the first hearing of the presentation before he became Minister: "With small steps it is not essential to intervene in the school system." The practice was completely different. When we asked him what will happen to the fate of basic education programmes, the Government did not want to continue with the conceptual development of the field of education; no, it does not want to present to the public the concept of development and the priority of individual areas. The concept of the previous LDS governments as an integral part was clear: the basic development programmes focused on certain areas where we wanted to make priorities in providing support for the fundamental message of Liberal Democracy - knowledge, the foundation of the development of Slovenian society. Therefore, the basic education development programme was clear: investment, providing conditions, computer literacy and information technology and nutrition as an essential component in order to ensure the most healthy way of life. But since we were aware that the need in Slovenian society is significantly greater, we have set certain criteria, criteria for helping the most people who want it most. Today the government does not want to continue a clear concept, it can change it, it does not need to follow it, but it does not have a clear concept. And the government's opinion on this law is only a reflection of the non-political and ignorance of the field of secondary education. When I read that opinion, I read it many times and wondered if it was possible. If you are reading this opinion of the Government in support of this law, you see that in fact it only sums up how this system is made today and proposes some corrections, how it will be necessary to define a meal, how it will be possible to define certain smaller areas, but not to talk about a strategy. Because the question of the strategy is: Will we have comprehensive development, that is, preschool education, primary school and secondary education? That's the question today! Does this government have a bearing on what the situation is today in secondary education? For my question is whether, indeed, we are talking about ensuring the conditions in the secondary school for the preparation and sharing of this food - that is, on the side of the executor or on the side of the provider - in their premises or in the immediate vicinity. Do you know the situation today where these schools are located, and in what way will we ensure this? How will this affect the organization of teaching, and how will this affect, for example, the transportation of students to schools outside the very center of the city? And here is also this interesting, we have discussed this a lot and there was an opinion today by one of the ruling parties that it is very important to organise a family lunch, that we will have a family feeling there, that we will have a family concept as one of the foundations of a Slovenian society where all relations are actually regulated. We have not heard anything about this today, and neither the proposer nor the Government have said about it how it will be possible to do this at operational level. And when I read the government's position on this amendment, and when I read the explanation, did you look at the explanations for each article? The ticket, one line, and it's over. Does this reflect knowledge of the secondary education system? I'm afraid I don't. And now, when we compare a comprehensive picture of the comparison of this issue, when we see on the one hand the assessment of the state of this coalition, which refers to studies in 2003 - from 2004 to 2008, it did not know this study and read them again in 2008 - when they refer to students as saying that their interest in this diet may not be the same, then an explanation is put in the context and food habits must be ensured. Fifteen years old! Those who are trained should know that at the age of fifteen, an individual’s contribution to education is actually made to the maximum extent. But if this government thinks she'll be asleep by the age of 15 and wake up at the age of 15 and influence it, then good morning to the Members and to the Government! And there are a lot of questions from this place - that is, an inadequate assessment of the situation and the objectives set. I am interested in the Government's attitude towards the objective proposed by the proponents that we still have a two-track lesson. The government doesn't say a word about that. Whether it is the goal of this government to have a dual-change course or to organize a work in such a way that I will have a one-change course. The government doesn't say a word about that. Entry into force. Today we can listen here to how we barant with the entry into force, the government does not say in any of its opinions the relation to the entry into force. The government's even moving on. The Ministry sends surveys to schools about the conditions. And schools return surveys on how it would be possible to do so and, of course, the financial resources that go in this direction. Funding for this activity increases with a factor of almost 10. And here I return the question to the Government: Will and how will it coordinate other needs to ensure the quality of secondary education? In the fact that we have clear images of the growth of the social gross product, which says: 2004 4.4; 2005 4.1; 2006 5.7; 2007 5.8; 2009 4.1, with the education index being twice or even more than twice as low. How we can understand correctness in relation to the quality of secondary education. So, these are our concerns that we are building up in that if we want to build a healthy diet, if we want to build eating habits, then the responsibility for these issues needs to be assigned substantially earlier. And let us address this problem in a consistent way so that we can solve it consistently also in relation to other priority areas. If we can have basic development programmes in the field of defence, the question is, of course, to this Government: Why do we not need basic development programmes in the field of education as well? And it would be comprehensive, with the very responsible attitude of this government towards this law, because the Government's explanation for this law is, in my opinion, very irresponsible, very sophisticated and follows substantially other interests than that of actually wanting to solve this problem. This problem exists, we are aware of it, but it needs to be resolved consistently. We will not oppose this law, but we expect that, given that we can expect substantial changes in the content of this law below, given that the leader of one of the coalition parties or the largest coalition party tells us that we will still be moving certain things, of course, we expect the Government to respond clearly to our education problems with clear answers. This is also what we expect in addressing this law; that we will have a comprehensive solution to open issues in the field of education and that we will have clear answers to how this law will be implemented in the field of secondary education itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Well, first of all, I must say that I certainly cannot agree with that part of the opposition that over and over again, and probably this will take a whole year, repeating how this law is only a pre-election move. That certainly doesn't hold. Such or similar law with exactly the same objectives has already been enacted by the Slovenian Democratic Party twice in its previous term, and you have not supported this law. I hope that today's vote will be different. And even if it were to end with a pre-election move - what's wrong with that? We are not harming this citizen or student, but allowing them to improve the situation. I really don't understand you here, so I hope you'll reconsider and support this marriage. The fact is, we are living in a world where the rapid pace of life is taking place, which has become a constant. We can't take enough time to eat, even though it's one of the essential components for a person's healthy life. When we talk about a youth, however, this is certainly vital to his development. The law that we have before us is primarily trying to systematically regulate the diet of students in a similar way as it has already been arranged for students. It has only one different connotation, which is that this law takes place or that this diet takes place inside a school kitchen or school premises. The fact is that this method has proved to be an extremely good solution for the student population, and it would be good to allow students who, in these years, are surely the most in need of adequate nutrition for their development. The law thus allows all students the right to one subsidised daily meal of 2.35 euros. Of course, I agree with the opposition, this will be a burden on the budget, but on such an important issue, when we want to ensure a better state of nutrition for young people, we need to find an appropriate solution. If we look at how this is done in other European countries, we can see that a lot of countries are subsidising student nutrition. In Austria, for example, in lower secondary schools, food is subsidized for all pupils, as well as in Finland - food is free for students in lower and in large part also for upper secondary schools. Similarly in Greece, Germany, Spain, Sweden. So these are the data that certainly shows that we are going in the right direction with this law. In short, most of the countries in different ways are helping to cover the cost of eating. The government supports the proposal of the law, which in the first place shows that it does not care how educational youth eat, also shows that it is fully aware of how important it is, especially during this period of growth or during this period of development, to have a healthy, regular and proper diet. However, I would like to add here that it is not only healthy food and a warm meal but also sports activity or movement. Research shows that adolescents are significantly undermoving and that they are also in such a state that they have no desire for this movement, except for those who are active, besides schooling, engaged in sports activities or certain sports. However, this is understandable on the one hand. Most of us, too, may not always be the best example for these things. But how can kids like to, I'll say, move, but if they don't look at home, not at school, not among their peers? Of course, we must first make sure that we are a good example for young people. When I was alone in elementary school, we didn't have a good chance of sports activity within our place. Today, most youths, most children have these options, but examples are not always the best. And the example is the one who usually pulls. If we look at the study among Slovenian high school students, it has shown that only a few more respondents are involved in sports. Tens of them exercise only as much as they need in school, and a quarter of them are engaged in physical activity only occasionally, and 2.4% are not engaged in physical activity at all. And that's what happens in schools to apologize for sports education and so on. In short, these are data that certainly indicate that something needs to be changed in this area. I believe or know that this law will not solve all these problems. Also obesity, which is resulting in poor nutrition and is a problem, health problem also in Slovenia, not only in Europe or America. In short, I know that this law will not solve these problems, but it is certainly a step forward in improving some situation. That's why, of course, I'm going to support this marriage myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maja Zupan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your word, Your Honor. The proposal for a student diet law has gone quite a long way, and some of the findings are quite justified. While food is good for students, we can say that the students in the busy schedule have only a short time to eat fast food, which is neither healthy nor warm. Parents have warned about this for a long time, teachers, doctors, and even students themselves. It is important for young people to have a balanced and healthy diet because they are spending the time in which they are mentally and physically the fastest to develop. It seems very important to me that it is organised and that it is being organised, at least organised, by eating in the school kitchen, and I am afraid that some of the problems of remodeling will be, with regard to the satisfaction of the law, but I believe that it can also be done with good will and with the means clearly necessary to do so, including these arrangements. The proposed amount of the subsidy is €2.35 and €2.42 per meal, which would be EUR 450 per year for a student who regularly carries out his school activities, which is the sum that could reduce the costs for the education of his children. I will support this bill myself because I believe it creates good conditions for the education of students and students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am convinced that there is no one among us who would not agree that diaphragm is a major problem. And we probably all realize that in this chain from kindergarten to university they're actually the worst students. And, of course, it is horrifying to listen and see and hear that in Slovenia there is almost a third of secondary schools without adequate facilities, where we would either have a kitchen or at least a dining room. This situation is bad and probably no one is proud of it. In doing so, it must be said that in order for the Government or the Ministry of Education to devote more money to arrange the dining room to arrange the kitchen in secondary schools, no law would be needed. Just a few more financial resources and good will. But this is not the subject of discussion today, although it is likely that the application of this law will not be possible without it. Personally, I believe that in high school it is necessary for food to be arranged at school and not to seek solutions differently from outside school, and not from other providers, because I think that at least at this stage of school there is a need for a significant impact on the quality and quality of food. In doing so, of course, I want to say that if I look into my environment, into my congregation Domžale, then she is a horror, which we can see in our secondary school. There is no kitchen - Mrs Irglov discussed - there is no gym, and these discussions have been held for years. And what happens when they have lunch? Part of the students runs to the nearby shopping center after buying some sandwiches, and part of the students are fed in the yard at a kiosk where they are offered, I will say, excellent quality food in the form of hotdogs, bureks, pizzas and similar matters. This is certainly a problem, but something also needs to be pointed out in this regard, which, according to my opinion, is not being dealt with by my colleague Germić. How and how to provide quality and quality food? For this will not be something that some may command or command. It is also a matter of changing the model of opinion. And if I've read it right somewhere, in England, let's say, this thing is being dealt with and the government has engaged even popular Jamie to try to influence this population that probably has the worst eating habits in the entire population. So he could get involved. I will say whether we are capable today because we also need to open up the topic more broadly, whether we are able to talk in Slovenia, say, about the ban on fast food advertising, which probably has the greatest impact on this population as well, and which would probably contribute to environmental pollution, with these aggressive advertising approaches, and something about food issues. I must say that I personally have great dilemmas and I am asked whether it is necessary to approach selectively, i.e. with a social situation, or to provide subsidisation to all. I have to say here that I'm warming up more to make it possible for everyone. Not because it would not make you socially sensitive, but because I think that this population is already on the wrong track, as far as nutrition is concerned, it would actually mean a lot with one real move. But unfortunately, I have to say that in all this matter - not because some people have written about it or because they have warned about it today - but all the time there is a taste of the inadequacy of this proposal, I will also say that the matter is being prepared 'ad hoc' to do so without some really strategic insight and also certain analysis that it is being done in a firefight just before the elections. But it's no big deal, I'll say if the students benefit from it, and if things do go the right way, then the fact that it's a pre-election move doesn't bother me. In the final stage, it is an important goal, and the other is more in this room. However, it is necessary to say and point out what has happened to this issue in the past, how the proposals of the wrong Members and the wrong groups of the Members may have been rejected, perhaps more produced and, above all, targeted where the biggest problem is - in finance. And you're the most perverted right now that you're offering this food and you're burying this table, as it was said, at this point, but the bill will be exposed to someone in the future. If we were to be honest, then we would have done it in 2008, and I think we would have a rebalancing session in Parliament at any time, and then we would have shown our honesty in full, but not just in terms of making a promise at a certain point, something that will have to be done, implemented, arranged by someone else who might come after you, but maybe you, too, if you keep the power. And that bothers me, and it doesn't seem to change because, in fact, the law doesn't answer many of the questions that have been opened here today, it only gives you the quickest answer and that's why you all keep repeating these 2.34 euros very often, so that people will say, "Yeah, that's it." Everything else is not open, there is no problem, and you are also responsible for this, for investments, for places where this would happen, for the quality of this diet, and here somehow this matter is seductive and gets a bad taste at the end of this proposal. And unfortunately, every single thing in this room obviously breaks down sooner or later. Probably this subsidised lunch will be almost done, I will say, broken down and rotted before we can bring it to Slovenian students and students in the form that we all would like.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So that there is no mistake in saying in the introduction that I personally and as a Member strongly support that the issue of student diet is improving qualitatively. That this issue is also improved on the basis of the fact that every year the enrollments in the student year have any of this, but in accordance with the capacity that the State has and also in accordance with the appropriateness of the exposed infrastructure or logistics, including spatial capacity. And according to the capacity of the state, it is called upon to resolve such social issues as this, the Ministry of State. It has a duty to formulate policies and approaches to solving such and other issues, and therefore the state budget, which it has, in the latter process at all, has only a crucial impact. Members, when the budget is being considered, are not even able to write an amendment, let alone have a different impact on the budget. However, as it was clearly stated by the proposer in the presentation and later by the debate from the same parliamentary group that this issue could already be resolved in 2004, because this same proposaler proposed such a good law and so on. Yeah, it was. This same candidate has only proposed a much more electorally populist law than today. It was also said that the total costs of transporting students, students, etc. should be easily transferred to the state budget. And by the time the state budget for this was already concrete, it was adopted. I, too, was part of that government at the time, and it is clear that any serious government, responsible government, a responsible coalition cannot absorb such populism from the vision of behaviour, what is the ability of a country governed by it, etc. And that's why I couldn't accept it and support it. And look at him, and then I thought, but of course, in this mandate, because the ministry has also been covered by Minister Beast, the government has come, as a serious government, as a creative government, with a serious proposal to resolve this issue. But look at you, none of it. None of that. Any other partial solutions that led to this improvement were slightly rejected. And look at him, there's an election year here again, this same proponent of this same populism, and the government backs him up at once. [[...]] The government, which has adopted the budget and will support the law, which will be absorbed according to the needs of the finances, the budget in 2009-2010. I don't know what other government is calling it. What a depravity! So I'm disappointed. In view of the fact that Minister Beast is painting us or taking us to a golden age in this mandate, one would expect that this will obviously be a necessary issue to solve, including an integral part of this golden age, which we are experiencing. But that's not gonna happen. We will come for, in the electoral year, by a party whose President has recently made it clear that the Presidency of the European Union is such an important creation and the task of this country that he and his party will not be involved in the early election games. But look at him. Here we have the law again, like in 2004. And I'm just gonna back him up now?Oh, my God! No, my dear. As a Member, I have never before, unless I have already supported or encouraged populism, I will not do so this time. And I also reject it in this section of this bill because I firmly believe that it is moving to all those students, those schools that have neither the possibility nor the money nor the logistics to carry out such a thing. And we give them false expectations, double false, false expectations. I, as a Member, cannot really accept everything that has been submitted here. And I think it's a shame to paint this Parliament as an incredible assembly, which, after all, we have extended the deadline of these students who appear every fall in school benches without seeing anything improve. It would only make sense, gradually, from year to year, to improve this situation - both in accordance with the possibility of the country and in accordance with the possibility of realising logistics. And leaving the schoolroom statistically says he's bringing a lot of negative influences back into this house, into this school space. That is why such matters need to be resolved in a comprehensive manner, which is why the Ministry of the Interior has been called. But none of this is going to happen except that we come back in the election year to back up one populism. Of course, I don't support that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u81	Thank you very much. However, Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u82	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. A nice welcome to the government representatives. Dear colleagues and colleagues. What we have just heard, I believe that this is the opinion of my respected colleague Brenčič, and not the opinion of the People's Party. Indeed, we are already used to such and similar in this House, and even more so on the Committee for Labour and Social Affairs itself. Nevertheless, life has become a single rush, pushing parents for a job, a standard, and in this way children, especially during puberty, are estranged and somehow left to themselves. The population of the students we are talking about is during the most sensitive period, during the period of development and puberty. They are most receptive to customs and will become accustomed during this period, will remain in the future, and will be passed on to the next generations. Some want to be "in" and therefore many submit to those who are used to fries and cocoa or even more popular kebabs today. So, in fact, what is the situation in the neighborhood where I come from, said a colleague from Domžal, who said that they simply do not have the right space to distribute and feed students. I believe that this is because I know that they have invested more time and effort in the fact that the stone-made high schools have taken away students instead of focusing on these problems that they now have. In Kamnik and at our stone school, we have these problems solved. We have a Menzo, we have a kitchen, the only problem is that the kitchen is too low on capacity and according to the situation we're talking about today. I am confident that this will also provide capacity and adequate nutrition for these students. I support the proposal, and I am sure that we will continue to correct it, amend it and improve it. We have also heard the announcement in the presentation itself that the fear that we are hearing here in this Chamber is far too great, because we intend to propose an amendment in the sense that this law will enter into force this year, even in this government, I do not know which one, as some of you speak and deceive people. I am proposing to all those colleagues and, of course, mainly to my colleagues in Really to be surprised, and the coalition will not leave the budget hole it has received and must change and correct the budget at the very beginning when it has not even begun to perform its functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u83	Thank you very much. And the word "messenger" means "magic." Milan M. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u84	I quote: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposed law. A healthy meal is a large expense for an individual student, including a student of parents, who could afford a warm meal. This spending is also the opposite of..." And so on. In short, the government supports the proposed law. I quote: "The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on amendments by members of the opposition for 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, the Government opposes amendments that increase the volume of funds to subsidise food." What's changed? What has changed is that on 31 January the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted an opinion on the proposal for a Law on the Subsidisation of Diagnostic Diet, the first hearing, which is positive. If the Government had done so on 30 January, it would still be possible to agree, because on 30 January evening you discussed, so I read by the media, the proposal for the 2008 budget rebalancing. And if you include this bill in the 2008 balance sheet, which you can, the law is in the procedure, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, the law can be adopted in the procedure, if the budget balance is proposed at the same time, then I support it. If you're serious, but if this is just a simple demagogy you're running in time, I wouldn't even say elections yet, because I mean, I understood that we're still in the presidency, and then of course I don't understand you. I support the intention that in Slovenia we increase the subsidisation of students' diet to a greater extent; I undermine this intention. These were also the reasons why we are members of the opposition in this mandate, why have previous governments gradually increased this proportion? This is what one of the former education ministers, fellow Member Gaber, is talking about today's interview, which is likely to be even better and more meaningful than I am, because I am not exactly a specialist in school nutrition. However, fellow Members of the ruling coalition propose a rebalance in the 2008 budget so that we can take the extra 38 million euros out of the I do not know where, MORS, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, and then include this in the 2008 budget so that this can be established on 1 April 2008 and then I will believe you. I do not think you are capable of doing this, because otherwise the Government would not have given this opinion a day later when it adopted with you at a closed meeting of the starting point for the preparation of the 2008 budget rebalancing. It would therefore be right that, of course, in this debate on the Law on the Subsidisation of the Student Diet, we are talking about what makes sense and that it would make sense in the amendments that we will formulate for the 2008 budget rebalancing to gradually increase, under some criteria, the scope of the subsidy funds. Just like it's written here right now, I think it's very problematic. Important issues need to be decided, for example, this afternoon, with your wish to confirm provincial legislation. It is therefore necessary to determine how the provinces will provide school kitchens in secondary schools. Secondary schools go to the provinces and the financing of the provinces, and the financing of the secondary schools will be made from the financing of the provinces. So we have a lot of problems with legislation that I can't get rid of feeling that, as my colleague Brenčič rightly said, some populism in the pre-election period. Or it is right that we subsidize everyone, including those or children of those you gave them two years ago a 20% increase in net salary due to a reduction in income, etc. Will you guarantee all the conditions that this subsidy and this meal will be guaranteed to everyone in a way that will not depend, for example, on the fact that in Pomurje, for example, the province of Pomurje, there will be no money for the establishment of school kitchens. Of course, that's the next story. That is why I consider this law to be unrealistic, populist and, above all, government policy over the last three years, an unconstitutional law. So what's changed? Are you really so afraid of losing this year's election?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u85	Thank you very much. To present the procedural proposal, however, a colleague of Tanka applied. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I would like to discuss it on behalf of the applicants. I have this right.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u87	Sure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u88	First, I would like to respond to all those who today have very serious problems with this populism. We did not table in 2003, additions to the Student Nutrition Act by working to regulate the student diet because it was an electoral year, but we tabled it because it was treated in a similar, analogous part of the educational system and then we granted the students a status subsidy. There, the previous government and the previous proposer did not ask whether it was students from rich or poor families, but they allowed all students, all with student status, to be entitled to a grant for student food. Mr. Squeakle, you were close to that government. A gentleman who may speak later and who today has published a contribution in the newspaper Delo was the minister of that time who approved it. And I wonder if the granting of the student food grant was then an electoral or pre-election move by that government. Was that necessary? Was that something else? Purely all the studies available to all Members of Parliament say that the diaphragm is disorderly and that, in terms of nutrition, this is the farthest part of the education system in the field of nutrition. And we can take kindergartens, primary school, high school and students. The worst. And I am asked a fundamental question why, in fact, one part of the population, which I said in the introduction, is educated under significantly more difficult conditions than students, is not entitled to the same conditions, to the same subsidy as the student population. I think we have a responsibility to ensure that. And the other thing about proposing laws. We are Members of Parliament who have the right to propose laws. It is not only the Government within the framework of the government coalition that is proposing that Members also be able to do so. If you remember, the Members also proposed the Law on the University of Primorska. When we regulated certain obligations to build capacity at this university, there were no concerns, no problems. Members of the opposition also supported that law. If I'm not mistaken, they even signed. As far as government and government efforts are concerned. This government has also regularly ensured the gradual growth of food resources in its budgets. If you look at the budgets for 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, all these budgets show the growth of the budget line for subsidies or food aid. Every time, this change is made and this increase is made. And there is evidence that only some governments have taken care of ensuring adequate gradual improvements in the conditions for food and others are unfounded. So many fellow Squeaks probably already understands and can read the budget so he can figure it out. And as for the concerns of some regarding the support of the law. On 7 May 2004, there was a vote on the law with a similar content. The first to sign was the same, and also colleague Brenčič supported this law during the same pre-election period. And I don't know what happened at that time. We are considering this law five months earlier than those before the elections, so that the attitude towards a problem that is evident, which is the same as in the previous term, is changed radically. I don't think we've missed anything. He may be criticising only his opposition colleagues, rather than dealing with these gradual issues, which have already upgraded the relevant changes and revisions to the budget of the government proposal in order to make a systemic proposal and to regulate this matter systematically. It's like a student diet. Three years of available time, a registered problem, you have been alerted to in the previous term, twice, and in fact, we have no choice but to file this law and try to do something about it. And the situation in this case is also, I can say, quite favourable, because after many years of peaceful change, this was the first time that we had one longer series of years of economic growth that was expected and was in previous periods. And this allows the budget to have additional resources, some greater dispersion of the possibility of implementing such laws, and also allows us to adopt legislation if we have enough will. We may be able to come up with a solution in order to enforce this law already in the school year, which means that it would also be necessary to provide adequate funds, but not as much as Cvikl says, 38 million or the full expected value, but let's say four-tenths of this, because it will cover only four budget months: September, October, November and December, and we are also taking into account the currency, perhaps only for three months. And all these bombastic objections or concerns that you all say that it is only necessary to do so, they seem extremely strange to me, and I think they are also in some way unworthy of the parliamentary mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Your debate triggered a replica. My friend Milan Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u90	First of all, let me tell Mr Tank that I was not in that government at the time, because no government proposed student diets, but the students abused it in the National Assembly in 90 years. I was employed by the World Bank at the time, and I was nothing in Slovenia. That's the first one. Second. Yeah, if there was a mistake there, then of course you don't have to do it here now. With regard to the four ten, Mr Tanko, we can make this happen from March onwards: March, April, May, June and four months is eight twelve years. So, of course, suggest this in the balance and I will believe you. But until you suggest it, I think you're running a demagogy. Therefore, it is necessary to continue to discuss how this should be resolved gradually, in the light of social criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Excuse me, procedurally, Comrade Brenčič?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u92	No, thank you very much. Replica, Mr Vice President, even though a colleague sees this, she does not support you. Was I named?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u93	Of course, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The issue of a bombastic attitude to this proposal is simply that it was the same bombastic proposal in 2004 and that it put us Members before the fact with the same bombastic approach. So hope to vote against this law now. You'll be rewarded by the electorate. In this context, you know, individual voting must also be understood. However, since Member Brenčič is concluding his political career in this mandate, you can put me down three times with your bombastic approach. You won't get my vote to support this false expectation that students have under this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u95	Thank you very much. However, as previously foretold, Ambassador Willi Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. But I will try to return to the subject of this law, which is proposed. If I understand him correctly, it is to allow students and students a slightly easier, more organised, better-quality approach to healthy nutrition. And it would be good if we focused on that goal. I'm not ready to go into the kinds of people who are now pursuing a ritual of political resentment here and there, by accusing who ever is, what, where he proposed and who was then against. I am also not inclined to see this developed as comprehensively as some have already wanted us to finally come to the questions of compulsory membership in the agricultural cooperative and how organised agriculture should be, in general, so that we can get better integrated and organically produced food, which, of course, also has some connection with students and so on. In short, I would like to talk about why the proposaler is actually going in this case. I wish every year was an election year for the National Assembly. That's when the gifts are a little bigger. At that time they are more common, more are, and if they are well targeted, thank God that we do something good for our Slovenes and Slovenians, they don't mind how old they are, whether they are in kindergarten, or those who already receive pensions. And this bill has quite a few good dimensions. Now it seems that some of you have focused solely on politics. Of course he's got that, too. We are, however, in the political body that runs this Slovenia and it is right that it has political undertones. But we also have dimensions that speak of health, healthy nutrition. We have dimensions that say whether this is socially advisable or not. After all, there is even something pedagogical to be found here if we prepare young people in this way, so that they can eat as much as they need. And in this sense, I think that this proposal is purely right, and it is right that it should also be supported. I don't support the fact that this would be the law on suspension to impose it on others. Therefore, it is certainly our parliamentary group that will support this proposal so that the next school year can also be implemented. And it is not such a huge resource that this National Assembly would not be able to propose them at the time of the rebalancing. And there are also indications and even today you have heard that, not only the DeSUS Group, some others from the government coalition are also advocating that the law enter into force and implementation as soon as possible. Also, I did not think that what someone was going to suggest would be later on to implement it would be done on meals. A few percent in one year and a few percent in the other year, etc. I think it is right that we start to implement it in the autumn, for all those who receive it in both ways. In this way, I would like to say that I would point out this health indication so that everyone would have the possibility of a healthy diet and social one so that those who are socially deprived would have an additional opportunity to buy such a meal. Before this law is passed, there will probably be a number of comments, amendments, additions and today we are only submitting the possibility that this will happen. The obvious way that nothing is possible because so many spaces are missing, but it is also questionable whether to endure or not. Those data that have been made publicly available so far speak of something else, that there are a lot of these places after school, that there is also a substantial offer, that there are very few who respond to this offer. As I was able to understand, at 90% of Slovenian secondary schools there was a meal offered and 31% lunch offered, but less than 50% of those who took advantage of the opportunity. And here's probably the main problem, how is that where this option is, where the kitchens, the dining rooms, they don't practice it today. Or because of the poor organization of work or perhaps because there was no such subsidy that we are now promising. At the school, which I know a little better, i.e. in high school and high school chemistry in Ruša, in this year's school year, when over 400 students were enrolled there, and they have their own kitchen and everything else they need, they took advantage of the possibility of 6 students. In the second school in Maribor, in the secondary transport school, which also has everything it needs in the spatial sense, 280 students took advantage of this option 20%. So it's not that we're trying now, what we haven't said and what would be good to say is that we have an affirmative approach to say there and there that's missing, that's where we need to ensure it and start doing it as soon as possible. From this grumbling, who ever said anything, the students and the students have nothing. Only if they really get the grant, in September, they'll have some of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u97	Thank you very much. But the word is from a Member of the Happy Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. See, the fact is that, after the adoption of this law, the country approaches a comprehensive subsidy for student nutrition, and this is to be welcomed. This is a fact that, in fact, today can also be reality after the vote. However, the proposal cannot prevent some from having concerns, particularly if we raise the problem of primary education, when parents still have to ask the expert committee, the primary school, of course, to subsidise food. In each primary school, the Commission decides whether the family is poor enough or not and whether children are entitled to a partial subsidy or to a total subsidy for food, i.e. facts. And these kids in primary schools are in a discriminatory position, that's true. And this is not the reason to oppose this law, I will personally support it, but if we look at a similar proposal that covered and solved this problem, but was put in a mandate in the previous term in December 2003 and is in a drawer today, no one wants to pull it out and look at what it says. And all members of the Slovenian National Party were signatories to this law or draft law. In fact, there is a comprehensive solution to this problem. We have left an unresolved issue in the most vulnerable population today, but you say that it is these children who are in primary, school and preschool education who are subject to the stage of growth and development and eat essentially the populism most unhealthy food, even the analysis was done here, I have taken an analytical state, I can in fact point out that if I look at the data that one third of the children is going to school, I speak at primary school, without breakfast, regularly eat only 42% of the boys, and 37% of the girls are written in a study that was essentially done by the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia and each day basically cancel the evening for 80% of the girls, although there are little more regular boys who are at meals due to sport probably because they are active in sports. That is why we believe in the Slovenian National Party that this is not a solution, and we call on the Minister and the Ministry of Education and Sport to prepare as soon as possible a law in which we will fully cover the entire population of so-called students who are adequately saved, the student we are now saving, the primary and preschool populations, including kindergartens. By the end of the term of office, there are seven months left, and if you have a serious intention, we will be able to withdraw from the Naphtali Act of December 2003 and we cannot even deal with the primary population in this law, because this law relates to the subsidisation of the student diet. And look, one more fact I would like to point out, the fact is that essentially this government is setting up a minefield, a minefield for the next government, because it knows in fact that this money will have to be taken somewhere, that money will probably be taken from the budget or the military item, thank God, rather to children as soldiers. I'm in, too! But if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had a serious purpose then the implementation of this law, which we are adopting today, would not have delayed it in the period 2009 and would have done so in the stage of the adoption of the budget, set up a budget line and assured it in 2004 when we started this mandate, but not at the end of our mandate. So much for me, in fact, about the seriousness of this purpose. However, I hope that the adoption of this law, which I expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will put into procedure and will also rescue the primary population, will see the light of the world soon, but if not then we will wait a little longer and I will, of course, demand that, in the Slovenian National Party, our proposal for a law be adopted quickly. You can't let go of such an important environment, these are primary schools and, of course, children in preschool education. It just doesn't work. It's too discriminatory. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Comrade Tanka, on behalf of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I'd like to explain to my friend that this law is not a government law. This law has been signed by 39 members of the National Assembly and, depending on technology or on the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, cannot be proposed for financial burdens on items not covered by the budget. Therefore, the first year, in the proposed phase, may be the year that is not covered by the budget, which is the year that is written in the law. But there is a real possibility that we can prepare this in this period, so that we can enforce this law by September, for example. This will allow all those secondary schools concerned time to prepare, because only some preparatory things will have to be adopted and this will also allow them to approach it. And there's something else I'd like to say. So far, we have only had partial approaches to regulating the student diet, and we have increased something so far this law requires of those affected by the systemic approach. [[...]] A systematic approach in the area of preparation of premises, improvement of the conditions for food, because this will have to be done in any way and only improves nutrition for at least two purposes. For both of us, it will be necessary to take appropriate steps within the school system. We can take partial steps to solve this problem for the next 15 years. This law, however, requires those concerned to immediately approach, to provide conditions for the implementation of this law within a relatively short time period of six months and for the sharing of diaphragm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Replica, Comrade Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I have to respond to this. Dear colleague Tanko, since when have you been in opposition? [[...]] I don't see any difference if you're the first to sign and the leader of the biggest opposition party not to talk about being the government's candidate. Otherwise, the procedure is a little different, but it looks a lot like power. And I would ask you, well, don't say you didn't actually coordinate with the government, because then you'd probably be fighting here with the secretary of state and the minister right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u103	Comrade Tank, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u104	Logically, Mr. Friend, the difference is crucial. The government is proposing a law to which it can be defined in a completely different way. We are the messengers who have decided to do so, not for the first time. We've done this twice in the last term with signatures. So it's not about any specialty in this case. However, it is true that we are trying to resolve this law, this third time, and I hope that this time we will manage the matter in a systematic and comprehensive way, not only with some smaller measures of a few hundred thousand euros a year, but only because of this point being discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. I would like to take the floor by inviting my fellow Member, Boštjan Zagorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The law, as it is before us, is likely to appear by this time of autumn in just a few more cases, such as the title will be such that it will not be possible to reject them. However, if we look at the content of the law, I see that the proposaler is very actively involved, so there are also a few questions that he will answer very quickly for me. First thing I'm interested in. The law is supposed to be systematic and not partial, according to the proposaler's opinion. High school should sort something out. I would ask you, given that the law is systemic and not partial: What should be arranged and in what way, and who will finance it? First question. Second question. Article 8 of the law states: "In the absence of instruction, students are not entitled to subsidisation of meals." Probably the government or the proponent will control this absence, but I'm curious about how and how you'll find out who is present and who isn't, unless you get an unwarranted hour, a syringe and a hospital on your bench. Because if you put in control here, it's going to be a very big problem. That this is a pre-election lunch for the students, no matter what, every vote will come right in the fall, no longer doubt, I think in this house, when we discuss this law, no one. There is no funding in the law. And if, as proponents, as the largest government party, you haven't consulted the government about where to take these funds, then you've just proposed something that we can discuss today. Areas for the implementation of a healthy diet. Where are they secured? Most of the schools I know alone, from primary to secondary, don't have these spaces. Students eat mostly outside school premises or in the cafeteria of the one who offers what he offers. A representative of the Government who is here, because the Government supports this law, one year ago, answered me a question about the healthy nutrition of pupils and pupils in primary schools. That's when she claimed that the government and inspection services would do everything they could to ensure this healthy diet in schools. I gave exactly the school where it would have to be done. Today is a year from this, nothing happened at this school. Nothing. No inspections. As far as nutrition is concerned, nothing has changed. Children still eat for breakfast when it is possible to offer something else, hamburgers with ketchup, or the best hotdogs. Now, what's healthy here, you'll probably explain it to me. The government supports food or explains how important food is for individual students in their development. But food is conditioned more or less in today’s situation by what kind of family it comes from or from the status of the family from where it comes from. The Minister of the Economy and the Prime Minister said for a short time that people were eating old bread. I don't see anything healthy in old bread. Except maybe for the teeth. On something else, I don't see any healthy diet here. Once again, I would be very happy to have the answers to the very specific questions put by the applicants, given that they are very active. It's different than I said. The title is like that, but the law is simply not opposed, even though it is completely without content. And another question that seems very important to me. It says: "The law shall enter into force in the school year 2009/2010." Or 2010 It says, however, that the possibility or proposer will make an effort to enter into force in 2009. Tell us how this effort will be made and where you will take the financial resources. That seems very important to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I ask any of the candidates, do they want to answer the questions raised? No, no, no. Then he's got the word "magic." Janez Petty Officer. Comrade Petty Officer, your word. You're giving up. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Member Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. So in general, especially today, when we've heard a lot about nutrition, about regular, orderly and also about healthy diets, we read a lot, we hear a lot about it, and we've heard a lot about it today, and the problem always arises when we move from the general to the specific level. Here I would stress that nutrition is particularly important during the period of secondary education. The fact is that the growth period is ending. At the same time, eating habits are formed, which are followed throughout life. After all, we have a proverb that says that what you learn in your youth, you do it your whole life, or you do the same. According to statistics, barely a third of high school students have breakfast. In view of their burdens at school, of course, this is worrying or should be given special attention. So far, this population has been somehow released, not completely, but largely released from our care. We had an orderly diet in kindergartens, primary schools, even for students. The high school generation, however, was the only population that was literally released. I don't think we can leave people high school kids to themselves to find themselves just like they know each other and know each other. The fact is, they can go somewhere else to find something that they don't want, or they can find when they're looking for a snack. Maybe, of course, with great potential, this proposal has some, but I don't think any of the fellow Members, some have considered it a pre-election lunch for the students. Why do you need "more"? Are students of any value in this system of schooling youths? Why else? I think we should ask ourselves why not. I agree with those, too, that, of course, it is not going through the wall, but we have been talking about this for so long, but it is time to make something concrete for this population as well. Last but not least, I don't know if because of this, or what else is the real reason now, there's a variety of guesthouses growing around high school, more with a drink than anything else, like mushrooms in the rain. What was the primary cause? Or because it's not an orderly diet, or something else. Allow me to remind you that from May 7, 2004, when the then minister declared, I really admit that this is only one quote torn out, but when explaining why it was so he said: "I believe that the law governing the diocese diet is not necessary and that the Government," of course, the former minister in which the minister was "supported". Well, we can ask ourselves why he doesn't need it, why he doesn't support it, maybe understand it, but why marriage isn't necessary, and that's simply not to be understood. I think now is the time to think a little differently, that marriage is necessary. Of course, no law of the matter in the first moment has yet arranged 100% ideally, as it would have been necessary. But first we'll start with a question, and then we'll finish it. Therefore, I believe that this law is still necessary, even though we all agree that the diet of the secondary school population is very important, so of course I will also support such a law, and given that we have been able to listen to how the previous government has theoretically arranged everything, there have been prepared studies, concepts to detail, everything on paper has counted, but now allow me to introduce myself just as some of my predecessors have, and this is not critical, but I ask: What is the difference between that, I don't know, and the previous minister's current coalition, but if everything has been conceived and prepared on paper in the previous period, and now it's time to put something in the circle, which is not helping us if it is theoretically all wonderfully worked out, but students are still without a proper diet. And now I think it's time for this to work out. There's been a lot of talk about this pre-election period, and you know how, the election up or down, the school will continue, the students will still go to school regardless of the election. Maybe at the beginning of the year they won't even be paying attention to that year's election. It's irrelevant whether it's an election year or an election month or an electoral week, the students will keep going to school, and that's right. Life will go on no matter what election year. The law remains, and it is true that this is why the tasks remain, and so is the case. Why would we make certain boundaries in our lives because it's an election year, because the election year is almost every year, once the presidential elections are a second time local and the national elections for the European Parliament so it's almost pointless to talk about it. There's no point in losing words about that. Life goes on no matter whether we set any conditions or not, and so it is right and thank God that it is. I think that now is the time to make arrangements in this area too, but then, of course, there will be problems elsewhere and we will deal with them in time. The problem must also be solved at a concrete level, not only in resolutions, declarations, studies, concepts and the like, but also in order to bring this to life, and I think that this law is an opportunity to do so, and that is why I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much. But to the word I call on the apostle Christian John. Here you are.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Chairman. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am not surprised by this great support for this bill, which was put forward by the proposer in the procedure of the National Assembly and this broad support today, I also believe that it will reach its final objective and be confirmed by this law in the National Assembly. Comments from some colleagues that it is not a good time for this to be populism, that this was once with the amendment, and that it was rejected, etc. When is the right time? Never, probably for some, has it ever been so obvious to some that this bill's proponent has been successful. You know, a whole bunch of these and other initiatives are waiting a lot of years for it to happen, you know, that kind of thing and that kind of thing. Both at the level of the State and at the level of the region or the municipality. On one occasion, however, it is also good that there is such a moment that something happens that, after my assessment, we may have been missing out on this bill today. I think these initiatives are important. Food in kindergartens is well organized, quality, healthy, multiple meals, etc., and I think it is well arranged, that we also finance the congregation with parents in the world, differently, and that is fine. In elementary school, things are getting better. Even from the case of the congregation to the congregation, some municipalities invest more in this healthy diet, some less, the country here helps. Those who are socially threatened in one way or another and all children have a relatively good diet, including two to three times a hot meal, this is an important message, lunches, etc., and I think this thing is properly arranged for all children who go to primary school. We all know about the students. This measure, which came about years ago, is positive, is good, I think students benefit from these vouchers successfully, and that they also have this well organised. But the students somehow did not, whether we forgot about them or not, perhaps we neglected them a little, or perhaps they were too loud themselves. They were obviously not in this State aid structure up to this category. We know that this has been arranged more or less successfully, we know that these students also benefit more or less, that some still prefer to swear on some "chick" or something other than that diet. This is likely to happen in the future, but with this encouragement, I believe that more students and students will decide on this meal. And this is the purpose of this bill, how to encourage the high school generation, that instead of turning 'on a chicle' or a sandwich or something like that - a sandwich - only 'on a chic', there is also a warm meal to eat. The conditions are different. In most cases it will be possible to carry out this technical exercise in order to be able to introduce certain places in secondary schools, high schools, where they do not yet have them, so that they can be in joint buildings. This is much better than having students leave the building and go to some restaurants or cafeterias and similar things, it will be harder. But if there's any other choice, it won't be better than nothing to be able to arrange this hot meal and so on. I think we've told everyone a lot about healthy food, how important this is for the entire population, especially for children, students, students. There is no need to lose these words, and every profession supports them, and that we probably live at a time when there is not the most favored healthy diet, more meals, spoons, and so on; this is the time when our students, those who do not have breakfast in the morning, for such or other reasons, those who do not have a meal, usually at home, do not wait for them at the table, because their parents are working or are absent in one way or another. This is the problem of this youth, these children, and with such a proposal, we can certainly provide at least one hot meal before he is likely to have lunch at home or not. The pace of life is as it is, and tomorrow nothing will be better, even worse than it is today. By leaving it around the organisation itself, in any way or in any way, to secondary schools, high schools, the ministry, I believe that they will be able to arrange this technology in one way or another through calls, through performers, to meet these criteria that are necessary from a hygiene, technology and other point of view. I think there are so many capable people in the government, in the ministry, that they can do this for this Slovenian diet network of our students and students at this school. He was pleased to support this initiative, regardless of whether it is populism or not, whether this proposal has ever been proposed in this National Assembly, but it has been rejected, but now is the time when the matter can go through and it is nothing wrong. Why? It's useful for our children. Better now than never. Finally, let us all be so reasonable, support this proposal of the law, make it possible to improve it, so today's debate is also, and the students will certainly be grateful to us, believe me, as well as their parents, regardless of which government will be adopted in the autumn, one will surely be, and if the law is adopted, it will also find this resource to provide a source of food or subsidies to our students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u111	Thank you very much. But to my word I invite the Ambassador Dusan Kumra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I'm going to say that I'm going to make it clear 10 times that this diaphragm is also going to work out. Indeed, there is no reasonable reason for us to implement and grant this subsidy to children, since, lastly, we Members also have an orderly diet and subsidised in this National Assembly, and perhaps someone else. However, when I went back for the last five years to look at a little bit of magnetograms about this story, about this student diet, it reminds me more and more of my own experience, when I'm talking about children, when I'm reading this bill today, and when I'm listening to this debate. In fact, before I got married myself, I had six theories, an idea of how I was going to raise children and how I was going to provide them with material and financial conditions for development. Now that I have six kids, I don't have any more theories, and I don't have any financial logistics, but from month to month, I do this stuff. And somehow the applicant or this government behaves in a similar way. When I read these magnetograms, I read a lot of ideas on how to do this, how to provide financial resources, even from falcons, and I don't know what to do. Today, when we have this proposal, or when we listen to it, when you have authority, when you have finances, there is no concrete proposal for how to make this happen. And that is why my fundamental question and the basic question. What have you been doing all these years, now that you have this power and finances? Why didn't you come up with this proposal at the beginning of 2005? This is my fundamental question and the answer to everything we've heard before is that the government is not there. I can predict, but of course I can also be wrong that you have been waiting for a favourable economic growth, a surplus in the budget. And that's what this year is, and that's why you came up with this proposal. Therefore, colleagues, please also give a specific number, as the Government has written down, say: "From autumn onwards, with the balance of EUR 38 million will be provided from this and this." I can also suggest today, given that the transport plane has fallen. Return to this transport aircraft and secure this money. That is why, I think, a key issue in this matter, in this law, which is primarily related to financial resources. So, in some ways, it is a political issue; what will we give up, and what will we give up? Everything else is an infertile philosophy to me, and it makes no sense. It is also true that the open many other questions related to spatial issues, to the logistics of teaching, are succinct and so on, that I do not list all of these. But listen, here's the government and you're in contradiction or opposite. When we talked about financing the education system as well, the funds in proportion to investment maintenance were falling. Now I'm asking you. Today, you are all talking about some kitchens, some additional rooms that will be able to function from autumn on. From what? From what? [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] Yeah, I don't know if they do. [[...]] If you know, then list who has it, who doesn't have it, or if they have it, why don't they fix it? And in the end, there's something else, because I said I had six kids. Some of you have had in the past, maybe in high school, in high school, kids, but today, bring the bills home from the children, when you speak free school, that one, third, fourth, fifth, today bring from high school, high school in Ljubljana, and you will see that you pay every reproduction, every toilet paper at costs, for every month you get a ticket, in addition to all other matters. My proposal is very simple. There's no need for great philosophy. As much as I get the first to pay for a subsidised diet, give 700,000 to the students, tell them from which money, and the thing is solved and there will be no problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Paul Gantar to the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Cyril Testen has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Apparently, marriage is so good that it caused quite a few nerves in this National Assembly. I think it's important that the matter is regulated legally. It is much better than we are talking at each time about how much we will spend on the student diet, because I think this will be an obligation for every subsequent government. An obligation that will be necessary and therefore the diet of the diaphragm will also be guaranteed. I think it is particularly important that students receive better nutrition, which is very important because I think that the solutions they have used so far have not been the right ones. In our parliamentary group, as well as in person, I ask myself and see in particular one problem in organising this student diet. I think that the school is at a time when the student is responsible for the student and that is why we think and also personally that this should be primarily organised within the school and not in the inn and in various other restaurants around the city. You could do that. I'll put it as an example, we talk a lot and we talk about private schools. Private schools, if you look at it, I'll give you an example of one I know. Škofia High Schools have this modeled and we have talked about percentages of how much school nutrition benefits, regardless of whether it is not subsidized - in these schools food is beneficial, I will say, almost 100%. So I think we need to look at how these things are arranged. We already have very good cases at home. However, I must say that I was disturbed by the position of my fellow Member, Mr Brenčič, when he said he would vote against it for the conclusion of the mandate. I don't think that's right, and whether or not the term of office ends, it's right to vote just as it thinks it's right. I think it is important that this law has come at this point, too, because we know that the prices of the last half-year of nutrition have gone up a lot and that, within this and all the laws that the Government has already adopted, some of which will be accepted by my assessment, it is important that students and parents become burdened. This represents an important cost at the annual level. In my calculation, if 2.35 with each lunch is subsidised, this represents €470. If we imagine it's 200 lunches, that's quite a sum. And this is very important, so I think it's right that we support the law and that in the future, like student diet, let's also solve this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much. And the word is from Member Stana Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Greetings to the representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. I signed this law myself, so of course I support it. I support him for a number of reasons. They were more or less mentioned, but it's only right to repeat themselves. One of the most important is to save one segment of the young population or help to solve it and thus improve the social situation in essence for those who need it and who do not have the money and will now come to better quality food. Of course, it is important that in this youthful period, as well as earlier and later, but also that young people, students, have good nutrition and that this is a place in school, that no foreign products are introduced into school, because we know how long we live. It is also important because it is easy to start somewhere. I'd be the first to start at kindergarten, elementary school, etc., but it takes money for everyone. Earlier, the colleague had raised a fundamental question, a fundamental question, why we had not already done so in 2004 or 2005. I hold in my hand the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a law on subsidising the diet of students and apprentices, which was then rejected and it was well explained that there was no money in the budget for 2004 and 2005. This opinion is from 5.5.2004. This means the fundamental question that there was no money at the time. Yeah, now it's money, no. What's the money for? Probably because Slovenia has made progress during this time, economically. If the country is making economic progress, there is more money in the budget and it can therefore be allocated more to social welfare. Why is that? I think that's the way it is because it's a little bit of a student diet. I know that student diet is very qualityly saved in Slovenia, so that this pattern can be more developed in many countries. When foreign students come to us or visit us as students or other, and when they have contacts with our students - I have two students myself and they say they are very surprised at this way of solving this problem, which is elsewhere neglected. Now we're going to save high school. Of course, I'm in favour of saving another segment, but nice and easy. I believe, and also as a signatory under this law, I will insist that money will be found for this law. And that's what we're gonna do. What would a marriage without money be? Empty paper. And that's what needs to be done and taken to life. Then how do we proceed? Yes, I believe that if we were able and if we were able to arrange this year's elections this fall, I believe that we will be able to move forward, because where does anyone say that we will lose these elections in the fall? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u117	Thank you very much. However, Member Slavko Gaber has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. The National Assembly decided in 1993 and probably goes on to congratulate those sent to the team that the country will co-finance food in the Republic of Slovenia in primary and secondary schools and since then this has also started. Indeed, these funds were gradually increasing, at the beginning there were no funds for any hot meal, and even today, after Slovenia, some of the funds in primary schools are also allocated to public funds for a hot meal. In article 81 of the 1996 legislation, the Government created a legal basis for today's Government and all previous governments to provide a 100%-paid hot meal each day for everyone in primary school and high school. The law we have before us is totally unnecessary as far as legislation is concerned. There is no need for this law. Another problem existed its own time and exists today, it is a problem of providing funds. This has been discussed many times in this National Assembly. If it is true that these funds are available today, but they were not available a few months ago with a more favourable financial and economic perspective for the future, then my proposal is very simple. Essentially fairer than in secondary schools to give funds for a warm meal to all, no matter how much their parents earn, it would be that they would allow those who are most in need of a warm meal to begin their primary schools, "ex lege", in accordance with the law, to prepare such a meal for them as well. It is true that we have better capacities there, as regards kitchens and the like, but there this meal is paid and will also be paid when this law is passed. I do not understand why, for example, for children of parents who earn 100,000 per year at home, some even 800,000 euros would pay a warm meal, and in primary school they would not guarantee those who have an average wage for their child to have a warm meal. When you think about how to correct this law, I suggest you start thinking about the title of the law. The law should be broader in the title and then it should be further regulated from here, if you already believe that this should be regulated by special law, diet at least for primary school and for secondary school. However, it is sufficient that each year the State makes the necessary provision for a warm meal, to supplement the 21st indent of the 7th paragraph of the Organization and Financing Act in a very short way, by writing that, within the framework of an organised school diet, at least 30% of the population are provided with funds for a warm meal. The method of providing school nutrition and the level of resources should be defined by the Ministry by means of a sub-legislative act. At least 30% because this means that up to 100% will always be open for everyone, otherwise it is open, as I have already mentioned, even now, because this 21st indent is now saying that from the state budget funds are being provided to subsidise food for pupils, apprentices and pupils. So this law is not a great art, it is unnecessary. But if there are, and there are, so many that we will use, then let us give them more justly. Let those parents who also have children in primary school not be able to finance a warm meal get them, and let us not get them who can pay for their children in high schools. If we have arranged the non-systemically already higher education part of the diet and it has not been regulated by the Government, but it has been abused in Parliament, then we do not make the same mistake in secondary schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Member Marian Drofenik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Chairman. The MPs, the MPs. Actually, I would add only a few thoughts to that. I am convinced that the proposed law after subsidising the student diet is useful for the entire population attending secondary schools. Perhaps, however, one particular aspect, which has already been - I think - mentioned today by Mrs Jerajeva. Because I come from an area where, in fact, we graduated from high school as drivers. And we're from home, like, half past six in the morning and half past six in the afternoon. And if I now equalize the population of those who go to high school in this way, and those who are maybe 500 meters, half a mile away from school, I think there's already one difference in necessity. That I will not say that this is also possible for students from financially weaker families and that it is possible to cover the entire population in the same way, in the same way, that the question is, and I would suggest that, from this point of view, a little energy may be taken in further consideration, and try to see what could be done here to make the matter possible, say, in terms of "fairer". The measure is positive in every way, and I will also say it from a health perspective, especially because the fact that family eating habits are not the most healthy for such and other reasons. Of course, I think that in this population it will have to be a little harder than in college to give that it is not easy to go to lunch where it "feeds", but I think it will be necessary to force school centres, schools, secondary schools in some way to organize lunch within the facilities. In particular, because the inn could be quickly located and then these funds could be used for other purposes than this. In short, I will support this proposal myself, of course, in the expectation that only one more effort can be exerted, but it is trying to work things out. At the same time, yes, it's probably the fact that there's some politics in every marriage, if I say so. The question is - for such laws that cause costs, in fact, there is never a suitable time, so it is possible at this point, if I am jokingly saying that it is also good that elections are here and there, that such laws are also brought under the roof. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Ambassador Rudi Mojet.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Two political evaluations first. First, it seems to me that the words of Janez Janša, that we should not burden Parliament with unnecessary things in the EU Presidency, do not hold back when you have put this law into the procedure. This law will only enter into force in 2010. The other thing is that I also think that this law is in some way a mistrust of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or a mistrust of the Ministry of Education. Why? All the legal regulations, all the support this ministry has had for healthy nutrition projects in school, not only this ministry, but also so little, according to these estimates, that it is so catastrophic that we have to go to the front of our noses to solve it with some law. I think that this problem is so serious and so complicated that with these personal experiences that I'm listening to here today, it's simply impossible to solve. We are at some stage of development when we are no longer a society of the poor, when we felt that everyone would earn enough for their work to be able to provide a healthy and quality diet for their family and to lead society as a parliament in this future and that at least one of those moments in the family's daily part should be able to meet us all together when we talk and when we say something. And that family is, above all, the primary factor that needs to be seen and sensitized to young people for healthy nutrition, secondary only to school. That's why I think this trend is that we try to individualize, but let food be a little wider and more quality, that I think this trend of return - forgive the expression, if I use it - "human cuisine" a little backward at this time. I was one of those MPs who sweated the bloody way that we voted this first school toll in this National Assembly, that instead of 100 billion money for weapons that is now rotting in Afghanistan or in waste, because it is nowhere, 27 billion took away that lunches or school meals for socially disadvantaged people as well as free textbooks were also provided. And over 300 to 400 schools, it's built out of this over the years. And I think that Parliament move was smart at the time. And all the Members we worked together at that time are proud of that event and that move. And now this government is working completely differently. At that time we were among the cannons and among the butters, ladies and gentlemen. What has this government done? Look. This Government has adopted the Act implementing the Slovenian Armed Forces' core development programmes in 2008-2015. She presented it to the National Assembly. We accepted it, and I did not oppose it myself, because we need to take care of our security and because we need to provide certain weapons in NATO's standard. That is why we will spend €710 million or a maximum of €105 million per year. The former government and all previous governments ensured that they had butter in addition to cannons. They had all governments with the Basic Development Programmes Act in the field of education, and science since 2003, 2008 is the last. He's running out of time this year. The 2009 budget has already been made without it. This required programmes in which I see that these programmes, respected colleagues and colleagues, are making progress in this country, because uneducated people will certainly also lead to stagnation in the country. And then what were these programs like? If we look at - instead of cannons, research and development activities. Isn't our mouth full of knowledge based society? Have we not written this down in the “number of ” documents? Then adult education is aimed at greater employability. Is the labour market not calling after this today? Say, Podravje, if we're reading today that he needs machine guns and the like. Or for informational communication literacy. We have made great progress here since times past, and we are not ashamed of our people if we compare them by knowledge and by the number of internet connections with Europe. Are we ashamed to have a regional network of higher and higher schools written and associated with the economy? Is this a bad program, gentlemen? It's not a bad program! The Dolenese also need, and the Prekmurites need, and the Koros need certain things. I think this program was good. Then we had an investment in education and science. How many of you, dear fellows and colleagues, I saw at the opening of the school! You are proud to see that the country did this, it was nice that you assured teachers and students and also fellow countrymen of what kind of space in there for recreation and that this thing brought a completely different quality of life into this space. But this government, I have asked many times at meetings, in this National Assembly, when the cannons brought in so that this government, which would cost nothing, would also come with a law on basic development programmes in the field of education, and we are 'fito care', the State of Slovenia does not need it. We'll take care of it our own way. She has done nothing in this area, and here I see, ladies and gentlemen, that this is bad! I am telling you that this is bad, because there has also been a healthy diet in this programme, about a million euros have been provided in this healthy diet, and this has been as successful at the Ministry of Education after school as it has been. And in all these programmes, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to you that it is crucial for the State at this point in time to save food for secondary school students, but let us ignore when we have taken these things into account in the budget, let us ignore when we have had these social transfers, and we have not supported them, and that is little. And ladies and gentlemen, this money will have to be taken somewhere! Who? Taxpayers or social transfers or who? Tell me who you're taking. You said it goes to about 38 million, right Mr Petan Look, it's in here: so, 105 million euros we're going to give to buy weapons, okay. At the same time, we will be paying lunches for €40 million. Or news, how much is the budget of the Municipal Assembly of Maribor? Do you know what the sums are? And we'll do it with our left hand. When we asked for a million euros or half a million euros to pay for lunches, you repugnantly rejected those amendments. And here I see, honourable Members and Members of the Parliament, this misbehaviour, which also made fellow Member Brenčič bitter. I don't think such a thing is fair to just looking at this problem - it's grateful to you to point out, thank you! But if you look at the country, people who will also elect some of you in the coming term would applaud you more to provide basic development programmes in the field of education than to address this problem alone. I assure you, as I stand here, the Government, for the last time, that within one month I will file this law myself, and then you either refuse it or have so much pride, so much pride and so much exercise these rights that you have given to them as ministers, that you will take care of the welfare of Slovenia, and submit this law yourself, that we will complete it together and by consensus accept it. But it seems to me that time is running away - "tempus fugit" - that I could also say that in such a way of thinking and solving state problems like we have here, totally partial, not looking at the welfare of Slovenia, at some general objectives, but a purely narrow one segment so that it might be appropriate for any smaller party who has devoted itself to this, but not for a party who has been entrusted with the administration of this government and which consists of coalition and leadership of the Republic of Slovenia. Don't take a colleague from the Slovenian Democratic Party, what I said, for evil. I will congratulate you here in this city if you are able to introduce a law on basic development programmes in the field of education within one month. But as far as you can't do that, I'm telling you from this town that I'm going to file it myself, and I'm now inviting you to sign this law. And with this input - and trust your fellow Members and colleagues - you could, when we leave these parliamentary benches and some of you will go to the voters for re-confidence, look the voters in the eye, and then you can look at those who will go to the polls a little bit more closely, and you can look at those who are going to the polls, and you can look at those who are going to the polls, and you can look at those who are going to the polls, and you can look at those who are going to the polls on this marriage, on this little trifle and something small that we have here. If anyone sees that it would be good for us to do so, I will be very grateful. However, I certainly do not think that I have spoken past what objectives we should look at in this National Assembly to achieve prosperity in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Comrade Petan. In what form? It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. So I repeat to my respectable colleague Mohet when he spoke about the fundamental development programmes in the field of education that are under way. Sure. On the basis of these basic development programmes, schools were built and also opened. But you know, schools will also open this year when the program expires, and the second year will also, if in two years, and in three years, and in four. Since the basic development programme itself did not prejudge any new tolar but no new euro now. It was just a program, and that's not why there was any school anymore. These are the facts. As far as it's concerned, that's the basic thing, and that we're even now daring to reduce this program somehow just to the diet of high school students, I'd say. Okay. Where basic development programmes in the field of education are so important. Okay. That's where the walls were built. With this work that we are considering today, we will also give something for those who will fill these walls. The walls themselves mean nothing. If we don't have teachers in these walls who are of course professional and who are, if we don't have students, students who learn well and if we don't have a proper diet for these students. I think it has to be both. With development programmes, if you say so, or according to a plan that is also defined in budgets, the same number of schools will grow. 'Cause money just because of some paper paper paper won't make it any more. This part, which we are dealing with today, gives emphasis to those who will fill these walls, and I think it is the most important thing. The walls are less important, children are important, students are important, and we give something to them today. But the walls are going to build this club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u125	Thank you very much. However, the word is given by Member Aloise Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u126	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Fellow Members and Members! Let my colleague Moze forgive me, but in his debate he did mix it up, at least that's what I thought, pears and apples, because this is where we are now discussing something else. So, about the weapons of NATO, etc. it will probably be possible to discuss on any other occasion. However, it must always be said that the decision for NATO and the European Union was taken at the referendum. This was decided by the Slovenians and Slovenians, and you know well what the requirements were and what they are. And to say something that you know is different, that is, we use that word, deception. My colleague Moge knows it well, but it's very attractive for the public, and every opportunity is used to talk about it. I will now touch on this proposal ahead of us. Let me start by saying that I would rather see myself propose this law to the government. And I didn't sign the proposal myself because I lacked one complex approach to this, because the issue we are dealing with is not so simple. So here we have a target group of students. This is that teenage group - don't mind me - but these are children who are in this period and have many different eating habits than we possibly imagine or as we parents would like. That was one. Second. Of course, as a Member, I wanted to see what the financial contribution would be. And the third is what we want to achieve. Is the aim merely to provide a subsidy for these EUR 38 million, which is not a small amount of money. That's a lot of money. Or the goal is something else, which I myself realize should be a goal, a healthy diet. It is said that this category of growing young people is provided with a healthy meal daily. And if we were to go towards that goal, then we should go a little bit wider and maybe do a first analysis of what we've achieved with student vouchers. I have contact with students and they tell me, in fact, that they get these vouchers, but that with these vouchers they don't have in such a way that they can provide themselves with a healthy diet daily, but in the various taverns of these vouchers they cash out and most of the time end these vouchers in that offer called "fast food" offer, it's called fast food, McDonald's and so on. Have we achieved our goal as a country? It is therefore necessary to give students much thought to how this matter will be put into practice, how it will come to life so that perhaps these student vouchers will not end in the same way. It is said that this will not ensure the healthy and quality diet of our children, but those vouchers will end up in the purchase of something else. I think there is still a lot to think about on this path, a lot to be worked out in this law, and that it will be necessary here in this second round until the second stage of the bill's proposal to invite teachers, teachers, including those in high school today, to share some experience with them, and then on this basis to make a final decision. However, it is only right that we have embarked on this debate in the National Assembly, regardless, once again, I will tell you who the proposer is. We in New Slovenia do not actually have problems with this, even if the pre-election year is not. However, at the final stage, it is true that either this government, another government, or any other government, should ensure, as soon as possible, that this area, which is not now regulated, is not regulated in many ways - not everywhere, but in many ways is not regulated - that we sort of settle it in some way in this country. After all, I hope to conclude that we do not have children to see what the state will add, either in primary school, or in high school, or in college. We just have kids for other reasons. But the country is the one who has to help us in our upbringing when they are growing up in different ways. And on behalf of this country, it is at this moment that we are elected to the National Assembly. I will support this proposal myself and will try to make a contribution on my own in order to actually get a quality marriage in the end, which would result mainly in the fact that these funds would be spent really for the right purpose, and this is to provide them with a warm meal daily, it is said, lunch as such, not some burger with what is offered at every corner in Slovenia today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u127	Thank you, too. The text is by Ambassador Majda Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u128	Thank you. I am joining my colleague Sok that the electoral year is also the year in which laws are to be adopted and carried out by a Member or a Member. Of course, I am interested in what laws are on the run this electoral year, and I am also wondering why they are right now. And the Law on the Subsidisation of Student Diet is actually one of those that raises a number of questions. Firstly, if the knowledge of how poorly controlled the diocese diet was in the coalition was so strong, then I wonder why the Government had not begun to think about it, which could, with all the apparatus it had, have prepared appropriate professional grounds for such a law, which would mean finding out the situation, the proposal for measures and the simulation of the effects of those measures, that would be concrete. But that's probably too much given that we got from the Ministry of Education and Sport to deal with laws that they usually lacked exactly what I'm talking about. Another thing to be said is that even after the drops, until all these analyses were carried out, some things could be corrected and gradually changed, because I did not see that, in addition to the cost of a subsidised meal, there would also be a cost for what would be necessary for the accommodation to be adjusted accordingly. Or, of course, this is now primarily left to the conclusion of private contracts offering this food. My experience is that the interest of private people who offer food in educational verticals to students is not always compatible with the objective and purpose of those who give money from public sources. There has also been some talk about how users of services with what they get for their money and for the subsidized part are satisfied. I know a lot of secondary schools that had contracts with food providers, but they had to be broken up because the quality of the offer was not guaranteed. It is said that things cannot be done so quickly. I, too, can accept the thesis that the leader of the largest parliamentary group has in formal terms, that it is right that Members cannot provide the source; but, given the way things are going, it is still necessary to say that we, who say where the budget source is because the Government is behind this proposal, have the right to say that we have the same. And that would be a good thing to say where they'll get the money and how much they'll get it. And we don't make up numbers because the government has also written in its opinion that 38 million euros is needed for this. Of course, every year, Mrs Jeraj, and the school year lasts from September 1st. So when you talk about giving the right talk about things, if things are so urgent, you should start solving them immediately, because in some high schools they have the right possibility of distributing hot meals, they could start there right away, and some other numbers could get there. But the problem is that some things you didn't want to hear and see when we explained them to you. I'm for a compulsory meal in primary school to turn into a mandatory warm meal, but it's sooner than in high school. Why? Because I am aware that the social situation is such and that the differences are such that the social picture is such as to cover or capture the part of children who do not have a good home environment that could offer them - but now again I will say healthy nutrition, because we know how it is with who can afford healthy food - and I would attach and I would gladly vote for it if it were to start where it has to start. But you don't have to make a special law for that! This can be done by providing adequate budgetary resources. This law, which you are offering, is that if you offer it in the third instance - and some of the solutions are copied from the previous proposal, some of the justifications are prescribed from the previous one, so that you can clear them as you say. Where the problem arises, it is to say in your proposal that the subsidy for meals will be considered a transfer, which will be included in that famous law of 38 transfers, which you have now taken away from one, and you will put it in and once a year the subsidy will be coordinated. Why am I warning you this? Because the coordination of scholarships that coordinate and raise by 3.6% has been completely eliminated, however, student vouchers have been raised by the same percentage. What's left of it to the students now, I don't know. It does say that vouchers can be auctioned for a maximum of 3.6%, but I'm wondering who's going to go under what's allowed. These things need to be thought of, on the one hand, you give, on the other hand, you take, reminds me of what he said, "what he grabbed with his hands, he rolled with his feet." And what is also a problem in this law is that yesterday you had a lot of discussions on the transfer from the state to the regional level - and secondary education goes to the provinces. As you have endured now - representatives of the ministry, you cannot know, because you were not here yesterday, but we have warned about Article 199, and there is nothing to know about food. So it's about forcing yourself into something that's too pretentious. And I'm sorry that you're putting us in such a situation that it looks like we're criticizing you because we don't like you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u129	Thank you very much. My word, Mag. Franca Znidarsich. He's not here. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have already discussed the proposal for a law on the subsidisation of student diet several times, even in the previous term. Pretending now and finding solutions, who's right, who's wrong, and burdening each other doesn't make sense. My assessment and assessment of the Slovenian National Party, at least in this part, is simple. We are at the time of the elections, where we want to be all social, friendly, good and beautiful and whatever. The truth is, but I express my personal opinion as expressed by Dr. Slavko Gaber. The truth is that the lives of primary schoolchildren, students and students need to be regulated so that they have normal conditions for their lives and jobs and seek social solutions. It's not a problem of marriage, it's not a problem of consent; the problem, as far as I've talked to my colleagues and colleagues, is where the money is, how much money it is, where it goes, how it goes, how it goes, and who it's given to. That's the whole point. When I said in the local community, this compares that it seems fair to me that pensioners who had free bus transport were a few 10,000, saying, "If you seriously intend to ride by bus in the municipality, you will give 10% of your own money, thereby getting a free ticket, paying 10% and showing a serious purpose." I gave a difference in the local community to students for free transport from home to the train station and to students, free of charge. She didn't give it to the state. The local community gave it to her. I've never claimed a country, never! And they're happy. It is true, however, that the State has also given its share for a subsidy to students and students for transport, and it is also true that the local carrier has granted a subsidy for this. And the three of us, because we had the will, the goal and found the way, decided today that pensioners have free transportation tickets, that students have free transportation tickets in the local community and that the carrier who acquires something also contributes something. And why don't we, dear colleagues, agree on the principle of nutrition as we did there; as Dr. Gaber suggested. Once again, this is my personal opinion, this is the only real solution: to help primary schoolchildren, students and students, to enable them to eat in proportion to their social status. The same can be done in 2009 or 2010, as stated in this Proposal for a Law on the Subsidisation of Diagnostic Diet. Similarly, only this needs to be withdrawn, one smart law must be made, which will be implemented in 2009, 2010. This is the whole goal, and I think it will prevail over this mind and that we will help all those who need help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u131	Thank you. The text is by Ambassador Barbara Žgijner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are already used to all this in this House. We've heard such and other things today, I'll say, nice-sounding words or promises. But look, as far as I understand the general debate when we're talking about a law. The purpose of the general debate is to get those who are not signatories to the law answers certain questions in order to clarify the uncertainties arising from the basic proposal of the law. But when we wanted to, or if we wanted opposition Members and Members to get answers, then the signatories of this law say, "No," in the first place, and simply do not answer. Tell me what it is other than, I'll say, valuable populism, respected colleagues and colleagues. For all those who accompany today's session on television or who accompany public statements, press conferences via the media. What does the content of the law bring? What does the content of the law bring? I personally have no idea whether students and students, when the law comes into force, will really be entitled to a free, warm healthy meal. Subsidized, I'm sorry. Will they be justified? I have no idea. The money's not provided. Will schools make the conditions, such that students can enjoy healthy food in school facilities? I have no idea. That's not the content of this law. All you have written down is that detailed instructions or procedures, the rules of the game, are determined by the competent ministry with a sub-law. Nothing we've heard so many times. Therefore, there is no need to hold a broad general debate today on the need for healthy nutrition for our children. Because only healthy diet allows a healthy lifestyle. That hasn't been heard many times. Research from the past, even government national programmes talk about this. The programme for the period 2003 to 2008, tell me where the results of this programme are. It's 2008. And you're about to get ahead of yourself with some law that is supposed to, I say, improve the situation specifically for students in the area of healthy nutrition. So why don't you, your respectable colleagues, answer specific questions? My friend Zagorac asked a question. You say it's a whole law, a system law. No, no, no. This is one bad partial solution. One poor partial solution that points hand in hand to the Ministry. To a ministry that doesn't answer the question of what kind of sub-legal acts they're going to be. Tell me: When the law comes into force if it comes into force, will secondary schools be forced to build dining rooms? What will be served in these dining rooms? When will students be entitled to a healthy diet? Honey, after class. What about those students who attend classes in the afternoon? Before school, during school, after school? It says. And my colleague Zagorac pointed out this problem. Article 8 Article 8 states that students are entitled to subsidised meals or meals in the absence of instruction or that they are present at least half of those hours recorded on the schedule that day. But tell me how someone is going to prove that they didn't spray the lesson that day. Here they are - I'll say - rediscovery or that's funny, which is written in the law. It's funny that in such a valuable way you try to deceive people. One of the colleagues in front of me said that the problem is in our society, because at or near high schools they set up, set up, open the so-called cafes. If this is the problem, why is this same person not the first to be signed under the law to irritate alcoholic beverages and to buy nonalcoholic beverages? You know how much the juice costs if you go to the buffet, to the inn, more than two children's beer. This is the reality, and in this area, respected colleagues and colleagues have done absolutely nothing in three years of this mandate. Why do elementary schools still serve meals called fast food? The Ministry has all the power or power in its hands, an inspection within the school ministry should - I say - work, even though we know what it's like to be inspected. Even though we know what it's like to have inspectors or leaders in this inspection. Children are still eating unhealthy food, and today we will give this law to the student a green light so that they can eat healthy. This is a bad trip if we have a serious purpose. If we have a serious purpose! Allow me, but I would really like to hear it at the end, if you don't mind, at the end of the discussion, what are the concrete solutions to this law. The Ministry, the coalition, those who are signatories to this law have transferred all responsibility to you. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, can Members and Members and not least the general public get answers to questions about what kind of sub-laws, when and how much funding will be provided in the budget, how will the law be implemented, how will schools have to organise healthy diets for students, when students can enjoy healthy diets, what will this healthy diet be like, and so on? In short, everything that's written in one -- I'll say -- is an imaginary sub-law that we don't really know anything about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u133	Thank you very much. But I invite Ambassador Ljubeljska to the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u134	A respected choir! I understand the irritability of some opposition Members from the previous term, although I hoped in good faith that everyone, including the opposition Member, would initially support this proposed law at first reading. I am not burdened by what happened in the previous term because I was not a Member. However, I was interested to read the magnetogram when, at the first reading in this National Assembly in 2003, a proposal for a Law on the Subsidisation of Food for Students and apprentices was submitted by a group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Jožet Tank. Interesting, I must say, it was reading. It is also interesting to review the list and write the vote. I'm not going to show it. It's probably already been shown today. From this point of view, I am also following today's debate with interest, because I was wondering how the current Members who were Members of the previous term will be discussing today. I know it's hard for them to discuss. I believe it's hard, but it can also be said, "We were wrong. We had no conditions, no resources, no economic growth and so on." From the debate itself, I saw - I also wrote something - quite interesting - for example - when the opposition MP said, "The introduction of such a law is irresponsible." When the opposition MP sought faults in drafting the text of the law, she did not discuss it within the meaning of the purpose of the law. "It looks like a fire department." "The bill will be displayed in the future." "You're starting pure demagogy." "You're trying to fool people." That's what my friend Squeakle said. At the same time, he said, "I don't know how to eat, that's what Dr. Gaber." I was very surprised because my colleague Squeakl knows everything, but he doesn't understand food. However, I am also surprised that this law, which regulates the important area of the student diet as a large population, has not actually been the case in the previous mandate. And now, if I turn to this law alone, to the proposed law, we have to ask ourselves: What is the diet of these students and high school students now, what are they eating, fries, sandwiches, pizza or nothing? I guess I'm more inclined to do a little or nothing. From my point of view, high school students need more quality diets than younger ones, schoolchildren or children. Why? Because that's where the kindergarten is concerned. Parents care, and these children are also more disciplined than high school students. All of us are mostly parents and have children, and we also had high school students. I had two sons, and I know what it was like. "Give me money for lunch, give me money for a sandwich," every day. I've been asking myself several times whether that money went for the sandwich or if it was something else. And that's probably what all of us who have children have thought about. The purpose of this law, which I see, is to get a student actually a warm meal every day, a warm quality meal, that the food is quality so vitamin, calorie, warm, variety that it will not always be fries, or any sandwich or nothing. That it is also appropriate to organise this provision of food, to distribute food in a timely manner, so that the meal is still warm. This is important and it is actually necessary to operationalise the matter and make certain efforts. There are conditions somewhere right now. But they have to be made somewhere. The consequences will be that a daily warm meal will be made so that this young person will be in good condition and then ready to learn. This is what we economicists learned years ago in companies, and we served warm meals or received warm meals. And the second thing is, it's going to be family savings. Every day there are 2.43 euros, which means 50 euros per month, 600 euros per year. Where's he going to meet? With a balance sheet. It'll go where it's less necessary. Even from one of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u135	Thank you very much. But to my word I call on the Member of the Holy Spirit.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thank you, President, for your word. A good greeting to the Messengers, the Messengers, and others present. The law that we are considering today, which we are discussing, I must say that I will be happy to support. For many years, I have found that it is necessary to sort out or regulate the diet of students, a student diet. I thought somewhere on my own we had food arranged in primary school. How good it is and how quality it is, there is also a question. That we have arranged this food satisfactorily for the students, but that the students remain those who do not actually have these things solved to date. And I must say, I am truly surprised to hear so many objections to this law in this National Assembly today. I have to say, I'd say if you can't contribute something good, something positive, as well as with the question and also with the criticism of some solution. But I think a lot of words have been said, not to say unfortunate. I don't know why that would be necessary. There was a speech earlier. Mr. Moze said how nice it would be if the students could have lunch at home in the family circle, in a neat family together with their parents. Yeah, that would be really nice. I had this opportunity myself when we were all home at half past three when a warm lunch was ready at home and we ate together. Today, however, parents do not come home at two or three o’clock, nor do children come home at two or three o’clock. Yesterday morning, when I was driving to Ljubljana between Braslovec and Gomilski to meet the children with the bags on my shoulder, when many of the Members in the warm bed slept sweetly, the children were already on their way to school. When this kid gets home, I didn't know. But I know from the experience of my daughter that she comes home at four and five and six. I make her a sandwich enough to take her to school with me. However, this sandwich is not enough to eat until then until six or seven evenings. And I wish I had at least one hot meal at school. I have two daughters in high school. One has a hot meal, more hot meals. The other one doesn't have it. However, where this daughter, who does not have a guaranteed hot meal, has already been interviewed by the director of the secondary school centre, where they have presented me with a desire and plans to try, regardless of this law we are considering today, to give students the opportunity, it is said to at least give them the opportunity to buy or secure their warm meal within these school premises. I have to say that I promised the Director that I would do everything and help this happen as soon as possible. And it is a shame that other school centers, which may not yet have this option today, do not try or do not have this possibility today at least so that students can buy this warm meal if they want. So, with this bill's proposal, I think things will speed up. I am sure that many generations of students who will have this opportunity of a warm meal at school will be happy and grateful to all of us in the National Assembly if we accept it. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u137	Thank you very much. But to my word, I invite the Ambassador of Slavinc. Here you go, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! That this marriage is a pre-election move, that doesn't bother me at all. If it's any good, if it's any better. If it brings something good into our school system, of course we can easily cure it. Regardless of populism, regardless of pre-election interests and so on. I'm also easily hearing all this argument about how the case had been invested before, but it didn't go through and all those back-ups. That's even more so, because I didn't participate with them. And as I say, I think it's good for him to take care of food in high school, to even give some new quality into our school system. I already support that and I welcome it. Of course, it is now necessary to ask: How much good does this law bring, which are the things that need to be imagined, and whether it is the latter, and how can it be improved? And that's how I picture today's debate. The good thing is for sure that the budget is drained to relieve the costs of parents who have children in high schools. Even more important, an even better thing is sure that many students will improve their eating habits, so that many will eat healthier and even more regularly. I'm sure. If I come back now. With regard to the family budget, however, I am immediately asked: Would it not be better to do so selectively? Surely not everyone needs these around 500 euros a year to feed the student? And would the money to those who don't need it objectively, what they would be saving here, be able to direct to primary schools? So the first thought I have is certainly: Would it not be possible to do this more selectively, so that it would benefit more those who could do it better and who, of course, would appreciate it more? The second thing is for sure that the law or implementation of the law is very far away. And if we really want this thing to work in practice to make it work, then we need to think about how. And now it is also necessary to invest in the infrastructure of secondary schools. On the other hand, we see that Minister Beast is always investing less money in our school system. This, however, excuses the decline of the population. But look, this is exactly the kind of thing, exactly the fixed costs that we have to ensure, which is going to cost, no matter how many students there are, whether the number of students falls by a tenth or maybe even more. And for this reason, of course, I would have expected, and I would have advised the proponents already in the budgets before 2009 and 2010 when this law was supposed to come to life, when students were supposed to come to free lunches to anticipate funds and allocate them to prepare infrastructure, so that the law would not then be very well established, if it were to be improved, fell immediately at the beginning of implementation. Finally, let me think about how this matter should be betrayed. Is it really necessary to take care of this diet at school or outside the school? Experience often shows that those who receive concessions or who care about nutrition - say - in colleges, first year everything is great, well, then quality falls. I would like to point out that this would not be the case in high school. These are the experiences that many have experienced. The next thing, as long as students leave school, unless it is organised so that the anticipated number of students at this time of recess can receive this meal, then this is certainly another matter that needs to be considered by now, foreseen and taken into account and corrected in all of the above procedures for the adoption of the law. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u139	Thank you very much. To my word, I invite Ambassador Joseph Bajc. He's not here. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u140	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, my fellow distinguished secretary of state with my associate! As secondly signed under the Proposal for a Law on the Subsidisation of Student Nutrition, I came from the point of view that school is a second home for students. Of course, assuming they have the first one at home. Where children eat and how they eat in their home, in their first home, is clear and is not the subject of today’s debate. Of course, a smart country will ensure that the environment is as ideal as possible. Also for nutrition, for the generation in the most sensitive development, psychophysical development. A question that has been raised many times. Why is this marriage now in the election year? Let me remind you, the marriage was filed last year. Whether by election or pre-election, I don't think it matters. But why? And that's why, at least that's what led me. Also because, at the end of December, the accounts of the Republic of Slovenia's final budget for 2007 showed a surplus. Approximately the kind we need for the financial implementation of this law. So much for asking why right now. Our starting point, and we will insist on this, is that organized nutrition is only meaningful in high school premises. This is the first flaw in the current situation, since in schools where students leave the building during the main holidays there are several violations of the school order. The student is not a student, so I object to the equation. A student needs to really feel at school his second home and eat in it. Of course, the biggest burden of this law is on finance, on the Ministry of Finance or on the Minister of Finance, of course also on the Ministry of Education and Sport. I would have comforted you, my dear fellows and the opposition, and invited you to follow me when I declare that I trust the Finance Minister, if he could provide an additional 30 million euros to increase the child's allowance if he could fill the gap created by the new Income Law of a large amount of 38 million euros, if he could reconcile pensions at the beginning of 2005, if he knew, with the latest amendment to the Protection Amendment Act, that would have provided funds of 10 million euros. Then I'm sure he'll make every effort this time, too, and he'll find the right resources. I hope and expect it for this school year. I salute this law. Surely some nuances are needed in terms of improvement. I suggest that you follow us from the opposition and make us a good product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I inform you, however, that, on the basis of an agreement with the President of the National Assembly, it has been decided to suspend the meeting at 3:30 p.m. for the purpose of coordinating provincial legislation. So after 3:30 a.m., we will continue with the expected debate and the possible debate due to the rest of the time. Then we will immediately proceed to the vote and we will not have a half-hour break before this point is interrupted. So I'm adjourning the National Assembly, and we'll continue at 3:30. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u142	Messengers and Members! I inform you that there is still a consultation with the leaders of the groups of Members. That's why I'm extending my break for half an hour. So, we'll continue the session at 4:00. Such a decision has now been reached with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, and I ask you to understand. We'll pick it up at 4:00. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Given that we are not prejudiced, even if we are now continuing with the previous point, the cut-off point, we are not prejudiced to those laws on which coordination is ongoing, I accept your initiative to proceed with the debate, as it is on the list. Mr Mikolić has the floor. That's what's on the list.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. I must say that I would support any proposal to speak about providing students with a warm meal and also from the state treasury co-financing. I am of the opinion that these students are in the most sensitive years, and we can certainly offer them or offer them a warm meal during their schooling. I have to say, I was a little surprised years ago when some people, when I was visiting a company, explained to me how well it was taken care of by people who were working in production, as far as lunch was concerned. Perhaps you know that the employer can offer lunch, a warm meal to his employees. However, it has also been a common practice for a worker to receive this refund in the form of financial resources for monthly monthly payments of monthly income. But, in that work organization where I was visiting, they told me that a worker couldn't get it in the form of money, but a warm meal was provided for him. Why? Because they felt that it was necessary to provide people with such food, that healthy diet, or that workers would receive a warm meal, and that there would be no reason for them to be in the hospital or to be absent from the workplace. I thought that was a very good argument. And see if employers in companies, when we say many times how they only look at profit, also take care of their people, perhaps even among other things with the aim of being in jobs, then it would be appropriate for us as a country of the Republic of Slovenia to take care of our students in order to provide them with a warm meal. And I will certainly support the proposal and I am sure that you will also remain Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr. Bones!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u145	There is a lot of debate by some fellow Members on the initiative that is actually addressing the current situation, which is repeatedly mentioned in relation to the rise in high living costs. I think that this is once again a concrete initiative that is trying to tackle this unexpected rise in inflation and the rise in living costs. I am therefore a little surprised by some fellow Members that they are very skeptical of this solution, which, of course, needs to be operationally completed at the implementation point. And that is why I think that, in truth, there is no doubt in support of this proposal. In particular, as I mentioned at the outset, in the spirit of alleviating the situation that has arisen, not only in Slovenia, but throughout the European Union. We know we did it last time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u146	Thank you. Mrs. Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u147	I understood the bill's proposals, which required first reading as a manoeuvre of the time it takes if anyone would have wished for the law to enter into force as early as 2008. But today I see that this first hearing is necessary, and I am surprised that the Government is not responding at all to the very interesting initiatives that are coming and being given. Or it does not follow the question raised correctly by the previous interlocutor, Mr Sok, when he asked about the objective. And I also think that the key question is the philosophy of this rule, which Mrs Jeraeva called "let them eat". This is how to provide additional funds to students or all students studying in Slovenia for meals, warm or different. Here this law brings a different philosophy, a different way and a different principle as it has been established now and as it is now possible through the financing of subsidies within the ZOFVI. Inside the law, which says that food is subsidized to those layers of people who are at risk. Here this proposal brings another solution: "Let us eat not only to those who do not have, but also to those who have." Like those who throw bread in trash cans. Of course, such a philosophy is challenging, and who does not welcome it, even by itself. But there's always one "but" and also "if." Not only is it a question of whether the country's capacity, regardless of economic growth, is satisfactory to allow this, but it is also why it would allow only secondary schools, whereas it did not guarantee it in primary schools that it is in the case of subsidised students. Interesting. Data show that vouchers are less consumed this year, 22% less. An analysis would be valid for reasons why less. Or is it because some eat at home or because the vouchers do not sell or sell or because they are possible because some do not have them or leave them to others? I think that the principle of justice, which is now established for Slovenia for our capabilities and for a gradual way of raising subsidies to this optimal for all, is correct. Especially because it embraces those solidarity principles that people who do not have enough help them. And those of you who like to mention it more than once, who drive their children - say - into a kindergarten with a Mercedes. Why do they get that? In fact, the same philosophy and the same question -- let's say -- we can put it here. I think it is right to talk about this concept that changes or opens its hands in 2010, when there will be no more responsibility. By the way, even if we had applied for 2008 with the fact that we went to the first reading, that the second treatment could be in the spring months, that there was still a need for all the sub-legislative acts to be adopted and the budget rebalancing regardless of the fact that it would only be for half of the school year, but this is a deal with a very highly spare scenario, which means that it is not actually possible to make it happen. I say, and that is why, in my presentation of the parliamentary position today, I have stressed this, that unrealistic promises ultimately prove to be the most expensive way of paying. And unrealistic promises in this sense, as are given here with different questions. Let me point out some of the questions that you have already raised in the way of infrastructure today. I think it was said, okay, let's give them a warm meal, but schools need to be adapted in a way that allows them to have dining rooms to build extra spaces and so on. If - for example - the Law on the Provinces to be decided today comes into force with 1.1.2009, who will do what you expect today, the State? To build kitchens that - let's say - some think about, even though the law speaks of vouchers rather than of dining rooms that should be built in the kitchen? In short, there's a lot of questions, and the government has time, but she doesn't care. He's listening here. He's probably thinking his own way. She gave her opinions, she agrees. She thinks her colleagues suggested it. She can't see the traps. She doesn't respond to our conversations like a mutiny. In fact, you're telling the truth, you don't have to work there since 2010, when the meals are cold and not warm anymore. Let me answer that. It has been said today, the first signed of this law says that those who do not support this law are not worthy of a parliamentary mandate. It was a bad word. It was very bad. I can say that a mandate should never be used in such a way that it is built on unfulfilled promises. It may be of short-term interest, but in fact, in the long term, it is always harmful.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u148	Thank you. The word has the government, Mrs. Smuggler, do you want? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. The debate that has developed here today has been very positive and is likely to be complementary in further consideration and procedure, but the Government has not made any proposals. Of course, the opinion of the Government needs to be read carefully. In the beginning, the minister made it very clear that the idea of subsidised school meals for students was agreed. However, the Minister also said that we want the social dimension to be taken into account. Finally, you have also proposed this, and we believe that we will be here with the amendments that the Government has the right to make this and similar solutions, which would ultimately bring an even greater quality of this law and, of course, what is crucial, a real realization. Therefore, once again, we stress that regular and healthy nutrition, which is different from the law of the ZOF, where it only refers to food subsidies, brings further emphasis here. This means quality, quality and healthy nutrition. This will probably also reflect on the fact that in the student diet, where it will also probably be necessary to consider whether any food that the country subsidises is also good and healthy. Therefore, once again, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports this law and will complement it with amendments in view of this debate, which has been held today. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr. Prevc, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. I am also a signatory to this proposal to subsidise the student diet. That is why, of course, I will be happy and, in fact, I will participate with all responsibility in further procedures for the adoption of this law, which I think is very important. In fact, we need to take this first step that we will take today. This is said to support this proposal today in this general discussion and to find it suitable for further consideration. I'm sure, even on the basis of what we've been listening to for a few hours today, this proposal will certainly get support and that's right. This is one of the most important laws. I can also say one of the more concrete laws and one of those laws, which, however, is urgently needed to do so, because it actually saves one very important segment of our schooling youth. We can say today that this is a populism law. But I don't care at the moment. We all know that in terms of healthy and quality nutrition, primary schoolchildren are relatively well cared for. This is relatively well - arranged for the students. And the worst for the students. And that's for that population at that age when it comes to active growth. It is during this period that this youth actually needs a truly quality and healthy diet. Today, a number of concerns have been expressed as to how this will be done and how financial aspects or financial resources will be provided, which will be necessary for this subsidy. We have signed ourselves seriously under this proposal, and we will also further ask the Government to include these funds through the budget rebalancing and to provide these funds. By beginning to subsidise this diet already in the school year 2008/2009. As far as performance is concerned, the demand is quite demanding. Here, of course, every school, secondary schools will have to take special account of their specificity and organise each school in their own way. It is likely that another sub-law, a regulation that will not be able to systematically regulate some technical implementation of this diet in secondary schools, will have to be written on the basis of this law. But every school, every high school, every high school, every high school school, will have to follow a specific pattern and adapt to that specific. I am confident that the principals of high school will also be happy to accept this law or this aid, this subsidy and, of course, they will do their utmost to organise themselves in their environment, and not least to do so. I also agree that it would be very good to take this social aspect into account in this subsidy. What the Madam Secretary has also mentioned. I agree that the food subsidy applies to all students. However, a social aspect, a social aspect would be wise to take this into account. That's how you look! Without such and other concerns, let us be happy to support this law today, this general debate. I think it is right that this general debate today has taken place in such a rather busy time. I think the government's got quite a few such and different solutions. I am sure that this matter will also be implemented and that we are saving some healthy and quality diet of the population that is actually most needed for such diet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u152	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the list of applicants. However, since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Yeah, I can see the hands, so I'm opening the application. Eight reported. Mr. Kokalj has the floor. Four minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Just to finish the thought I started earlier. I have explained that not only Slovenia, but the whole European Union has found itself in a period of increased inflation unexpected and that this has been impossible to plan. We know that this has been the highest rate in the last 14 years and that this is one of the measures that is not yet feasible, but can be very quickly implemented. I think that the ministry can prepare this issue operationally very quickly, and even given that it is for high school students, the way food is provided is significantly simpler than it is in kindergartens or primary schools. We know that certain dislocated kindergarten departments are also supplied with food supplies where a distribution kitchen is needed. I think in high school, however, this matter is even easier to do. That's why I think we need to back this up. Now, as regards the social aspect, it is necessary to make the whole population, school and kindergarten, a slightly more appropriate starting point, when and how someone is entitled to this social standard. We all know that the criteria in particular for the accounting of certain categories of the youngest are still very volatile and in practice cause such differences as have been mentioned previously. On the other hand, I think that in this population, which is now mentioned, this law is particularly important in terms of quality nutrition or stimulation to such an extent that those with resources will also decide on a healthy diet. In fact, if they can afford social standards that they do not need any subsidies, this diet is often very poor. And by subsidising, and also from the perspective of the economics of the family budget, I think that this would stimulate the healthier nutrition of our secondary schools. We know that statistics show that our youth is relatively poor in terms of body condition and physical development, although it is still better than the European average. Therefore, I do not have any doubts if the support in the entire child population is in fact adapted to support the child as a category regardless of the social status of the family even with regard to the demographic picture. I think such an approach would be very positive. Of course, we can do this not only through this law, but through all other legislation, which I hope the next mandate will also be in other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. Even though I did not intend to come forward, I was encouraged earlier by the thinking of some Members who were not in favour of these laws, what they were saying or what they had doubts about, if we were used to everything in this room, that we had no idea what the content of the law was. What the content of the law brings, I have no idea. It is clear that whoever reads this law brings a subsidy to all students, to all high school students amounting to once 2.35 euros, and this will go from the budget. The law provides for 2009 - 10. However, we have already said that we will do our utmost, or as much as possible, to start this law in the autumn. Are you also asking if schools will adapt? I don't think there's gonna be any problem. Because it is very sad that some schools have ignored this aspect of nutrition and that they have neither dining rooms nor distribution facilities in schools and have not been paying any attention to this aspect. I don't know what they're thinking that a child can be six, seven, eight, nine hours from home, and not be able to eat. It is already stated in the current legislation that the school must offer at least one meal to the child. I imagine that they share this in one room, not on the stairs or around the corner or in the yard, as a Member of Parliament had previously said. We will support this marriage. However, we will prepare, I hope that together the amendments that will improve it will be shared exclusively in the school premises during the course and that this will be properly regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u157	Thank you very much. First of all, my colleague, Mrs Shirco, I would like to ask how deeply hurt she is when our group leader, the bill-maker, makes some strong remarks. And there's nothing to wonder about how the government is affected, which says it's a mutava, etc. And many times he uses a variety of words that may not be most appropriate for us. If we go back to law school. The same principle that we advocate in the law that we have proposed or co-signed, we have this moment in the field of student nutrition, and we are also not asking there about the social situation of students, but in this country we have decided that all students will be entitled to one voucher per day. So one meal subsidized by the state. And why is the number of vouchers going down anyway? It's getting smaller because we did something on surveillance. We've already taken certain measures here. She's done quite a bit of a student organization on her own. And this seems very important to me, because it means that with good control we can actually use the money we have dedicated to this. I do not think it is true that such a law cannot be implemented at a time like we thought it would be. Where there is will, there is, of course, the way. Pots can be different. But if we're going to go somewhere, we're going to come and find the right ways. The law doesn't talk about vouchers. You said he was talking about the vouchers, how this would probably work out. I suppose, given that the contractor, who will be chosen, will be present at school, we probably won't be giving the students any vouchers. Students already have student cards, and in some other way this can be arranged. Therefore, there will be a need for a submarital act, i.e. the rule of law and these things in the law are not fully regulated. And we also said that because the law is just a basis for detail, it is determined by a sub-law. We have also proposed a general debate to open up all these dilemmas that have opened today, to those who are interested in the law and who have improved the law as much as possible. In the past, you've all wanted to upgrade and supplement the system. You've tabled the amendments. This is true for increasing the means of nutrition, but this increase would only affect those students or schoolchildren whom we treat today as socially disadvantaged and receiving subsidised diets but not the others. But we wanted to do it for everyone, or we wanted to do it for everyone. And the ZOFVI says only that the ZOFVI allows access to students and students to be increased, of course, and no one is obliged to do so in many secondary schools to date. We will support the law, make improvements in cooperation with the Government and expect similar support from colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable present. This law, the proposal of the law certainly does not go against it. However, it is not possible to argue primarily because it touches on a very serious issue, a very serious matter that has been pointed out for some time. It is true that so far we have missed just high school students and students, we have taken care of preschool, primary school and then students. But somehow we forgot if I could use the term "forget" on high school students, and it's right that the matter is settled for them as well. Although I would expect you to hurry through the law at the time you took over the leadership of this country. Hurry up because it was one of your predictions and attempts in the previous term to settle this area. Now this mandate expires, and, dear colleagues, your manoeuvre is very clear. It is simply to throw a network, a pre-election network, into which you want to capture as many electorates as possible. But if that's the price we have to pay for this story to end with a happy ending, then it's an attempt that can't be challenged in the end. In particular, because we have adopted quite a few budgets in this mandate. More to the point, you have adopted quite a few budgets in which these funds could be provided and implemented long before that. So this arrangement to implement into our arrangement. But that was not what the obedience was for. But in spite of everything. Better late than never. You have written into this law, although in 2010. Now you're predicting that this will be the fall of 2008. It's perfectly understandable. The elections will also be held in autumn 2008. And you're kind of covered in the story. However, as I have said, it is worth seriously considering this proposal for a law, to complete it in a second reading. However, today there is no question that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration. In doing so, I would like to draw attention only to the fact that this has actually been possible even within the existing legislation. That there is no need for this special law. For if memory does not deceive me, we do not have a special law in the field of primary education, which states that primary schoolchildren are justified for a healthy diet or whatever we call it, or for some kind of subsidised diet. So the solution was very possible in the past. You've made up your mind about what you're up to. I will certainly not object to this decision because the problem that this law touches is serious. And as I said, for several years now, that's what he's been alerting himself to. And if this irregularity in the system will end the law, of course, it is welcome in the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Ministry's coworkers. I must say that the law that continues the positive idea and the spirit that we have been cultivating in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia for some time after regulating this area, of course, has been going on. I will not comment on this, the pre-election time up or down, but it is true that Slovenian students soon become voters. To win them over, of course, this thick pigeon, which is far from the top of the church bell tower, will need to be brought closer to becoming at least a sparrow in his hand. And another interesting proverb. They say that what John learns is what John knows. It's gonna have to start a long time ago. If nutrition can be properly regulated in Slovenian schools, especially because we finance it and care for it in the municipalities, then more serious problems start in secondary school and continue in student years. I also ask representatives of the Ministry and budget preparers: How much of this piece of cake have they already spent on the restoration of dining rooms? How much for the food store? And because it is one of the reasons why we are going to this law also because inflation is also a powerful blow to the diocese and to the student population, how much of the budget's rebalancing will we get in municipalities that inflation is working very hard to bring these things into order and to a better level? It is very interesting what Slovenian students say about food. Today's biggest week of Gorenje is conducting a survey and just a few interesting thoughts from this area: "Malica only every few days, because I don't have enough vouchers for a free meal, otherwise I would eat every day. If I could choose, I'd warm a meal, only sometimes a sandwich, depending on the mood." What does the student say? "I don't eat lunch at school because it's too expensive and modest. I don't like food at school either, because they only offer pizzas and sandwiches." And let's say, "Although the kid at school is good, the prices have been wild lately, but we also have to wait a long time." I am sure that the ministry and government have a whole lot of arguments that work is being done not in 2010, but immediately on Monday. Primary schools should be assisted, secondary schools should be assisted and why they should wait for 2006 if you can get a lot of seniority before summer. And it will also be very effective to achieve the goal that follows you on this path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u162	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca. Excuse me, Mr Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u163	That's a good-bye. Today I must say that we are probably all in good spirits, for there is an interesting drama going on in the National Assembly. It's a modern pool of 40 red foxes and sour grapes of diacon diet. Why does it take place in the way we witness it, when it is really difficult to understand why so much anger for a warm meal that would allow more health for our children, it is necessary to put it in the context of past times. In fact, all of these persons who have debated so vehemently today once had a majority in the National Assembly. But you know, then in practice it is. Our people are fed up with the evidence, and it turns out that in 2004, who rejected the proposal for a law to subsidize the diet of students and apprentices. It's interesting to find names such as Majda Potrate, Miran Potrč, Janko Weber, and not to make the LDS wrong and count only the SD Members, let's mention Majdo Šica, Anton Anderlič, and Jelko Kacin, if I mention only some of the most famous ones. And then I understand, actually, it's about going on with that story. And then he tries to hide his bad conscience with the obvious that it's a pre-election move. Yeah, you could put it in! We filed it twice in the past period, then we didn't have a majority, and you turned it down. It's a proposal for a student diet. Today we have a majority, and that is why some of you who have also proved your political wisdom have changed your views since 2004. You are already predicting support for this legislation. That's what I have to say in person. That's what I have to say. It is good that such things are the product of a great consensus, and I am pleased to tell you that we have spoken with the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, the SDS, also with representatives of the student organisations of Slovenia, and that they have also welcomed this law and have only wanted it to be implemented as properly and successfully as possible. Finally, let me mention that the matter will shine in just the right light, another one, which is really a very attractive argument for the hair, and I have heard it several times today in this Chamber, and it has probably been heard by all those who accompany this meeting. This is a comparison between the expenditure on weapons and the fact that this law is only now being proposed. You know, this is so much fun, you just need to know where these expenses come from. Because someone made a commitment abroad to achieve 2% of the social gross product for military use. And who was this man? That was former Prime Minister Tone Rop. The leader of that LDS, who today coined this particular argument here, who is now sitting in the parliamentary group of the exact ones SD, who also cited this for the hair-inspiring argument. In this light, when they bought that unfortunate luxury plane for big money, it becomes clear why they then voted against the diabolical diet. A luxury plane to the government was more important to them. But we are giving this now that the economic situation allows us to do so, when Slovenia's exceptional economic development gives us a real basis for prosperity, for every opportunity to finally enforce that wish and we will vote for it. We're going to introduce a student diet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u164	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u165	Mr. Grimes, you're not giving anything for now. Nothing. You're giving not for tomorrow, after tomorrow. You are paying €38 million for 2010. And now I ask, given that almost 90% of the Members present today, as well as very eloquent Members and Members of Parliament, agree with your law, I ask you whether you will provide half of the funds this year at the time of the budget rebalancing. It is €19 million for you to give a warm meal this year, not two years from now. The government said she'd do it. And it can because the ZOFVI law allows you to do so today, it has been read before today. Let me read to you again, because in the budget of money for what is promised in two years' time, it does not say that for students, apprentices, students and students of higher schools who, due to their social situation, cannot pay their contributions in full - which they list, among other things, food - they provide the resources of the State, in accordance with the regulations and standards set by the Minister. Of course he's talking about social status. And the representative of the government said that your law of coalition law would be corrected by the government by making it more likely, so you just said when you defrosted the silence to correct this dialic diet in a way that would adapt it to the social status and social scales of the people. So those who don't have less than I understand would get more. You can do this today. This is not necessary to draw data out back, but you can fix that money you have in your budget today, and that's €5 million when it's a balance sheet. But the balance will be short, you are ordered to plier it, the ministries need to tighten their budgets, because we have recently changed the laws because of the expensiveness, you all have orders to plier, now increase and there will be no dilemma. No one has any problems, even today, and it is right that this discussion was open, and I cheered her up, because also views have been crystallized in some way, but at the same time she has in fact, I am sorry, crystallized to accuracy the perfidity of the manoeuvre, which promises something further when it is no longer necessary to answer, or in other contexts, or any way to answer for the promises of 1 or 2 February 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u166	Thank you. There's no replica because time is divided, the rest of the time is divided. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Once again, I will say what I am in the opinion of the parliamentary group, and the balcony will surely understand that this law is like the saying, "Don't sell skin when the bear is still in the lair." And that's what we do with this law. And the expert on voting statements, Mr Grims, actually did me a great service when he said that when such a special law on subsidisation was proposed, I voted against and remained the same today when I said that there was no need for a special law on subsidisation of the student diet, because we also do not have any specific law on primary school nutrition or on nutrition in kindergartens. This can be regulated in the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, but you have changed your mind and you need to discuss with your conscience all those who voted against the amendments that the opposition has put into the budget to increase the line for this particular matter to subsidise the student diet. Talk to yourself, Mr. Grimes, and yourself. It is simple, however, that the government has specifically said that it is also thinking that the law should be supplemented. By my vote, I will give you the opportunity to vote on this law and then to do with it yourself with the help of the Government what should be done. There is no real basis for this law to provide for measures, no analysis of how to target measures, how much room adaptation will cost, how to ensure that those who enter into food distribution contracts will not see a wealth pit in this. The problems you're dealing with here are very great. And I'm just wondering why you just remembered the problem with diaphragm. On 19 April 2005, a resolution was adopted on the national food policy programme 2005-2010. The time you had and the responsibility of the Government is to prepare something in this regard concrete and qualitative. I do not tell Members that they have not prepared the analyses, because they do not have the employees to prepare them. If they have been able to publish at the Ministry of Education recently, I do not know how much data on what is going on in kindergartens and so much else, then please, we could also do something to make this proposal a reasonable foundation. You yourself say that you do not last in the finances of a global hot meal, I stress that you first provide a warm meal in primary school and then a warm meal in high school. However, it would be best for me if all children from kindergarten to the end of high school could have a quality free hot meal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u168	Thank you. Dear Members, I ask you to calm down a little, as it is in the hive when the bees are born. So we are done with the debate. I hereby end this agenda item and move on to the vote. I ask Members and Members to check the functioning of the voting apparatus, first to vote on the laws of today and then on to yesterday and the day before. First, we move on to the continuation of the 3rd item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Chemical Law. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 76 Members and Members were present, 75 of them voted against. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th paragraph of the agenda - with the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present for 52, against 16. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes the legislative procedure for the bill. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda - first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Subsidisation of Diagnostic Diet. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on the subsidisation of student diet is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support this bill. However, given that some colleagues have talked about why we are writing 2010 and not 2008 in the law, it has already been said several times today that when we change the budget's balance, we will also change that. I would like to remind you, however, of 3 December 2003, when the Slovenian Democratic Party drafted the law, put it into procedure and discussed it at an extraordinary meeting in April 2004. Article 11 stated that this Act shall enter into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia and shall apply in 2005. Some of our colleagues said that we were putting this law in because of an electoral network. You're wrong. We filed this law when we were in the opposition, you were in the coalition at the time, and then if we had adopted it, your electoral network would have been fixed for the first time and for the second time since 2005. It is not what Mrs Majda Shirca says today that this diet should be regulated on the following Monday. Throughout all the procedures, we simply cannot and everything we have done we have done properly, both in the opposition and in the coalition, so I will also support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u170	Another deadline was to explain Yes, several deadlines, so I am opening a statement to explain the vote on my behalf. [[...]] Here you go. Check-in is on. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u171	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. It is certainly not right for us to have such a conversation on the shoulders of young people. That's one thing. Whether this law is a pre-election gesture or not, I don't really care much. The pre-election period shall apply in one way or another to all and everyone may, within this, hunt the electorate and the electorate. But it's something else. The law is to enter into force far in the future. It is true that an oral promise is in force and that this will change in further consideration. But a three - and - a - half - year experience in this National Assembly tells me that none of these words about taking into account anything in the future did not apply. That's what I was talking about yesterday, it was about other marriages, but it's definitely about that. Of course, trust is not established by promises, but by actions. I'm just about to get the diaphragm fixed. I'm also in favour of getting everyone in primary schools and somewhere else to eat. But it's certainly the worst thing for people if the country starts to tell them what to eat, where to eat, how to eat, where to sleep, what to do. We didn't want it for these countries, and we don't need it for that either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I won't support the law. After 2003, in 2005, 2006, 2007, the current authorities were in power. And we got this extremely important marriage just today. But this marriage is at first reading. And besides the promises that have fallen here today, it is also one of those that will try to implement the law by the end of this year. And let's see if anything really happens towards the implementation of this law by the end of this year, we will have a national budget balance. And you also told your coalition colleagues that we already have legislation on the basis of which it is possible to carry out the wishes of this law. It means that on Monday, as some have found, we can already begin preparations for the implementation of the law, which we will adopt sometime at the end of spring of this year. That's why I'm not going to go against the law. I'm going to abstain. But your game will show up very quickly if it's true, or if it's just a bluff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u174	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I don't object to the law. But I will strongly support it when the words become meat, and I expect that this will, of course, be essential before the year 2010. It is obvious that inflation has hit this country so strongly that primary schools, secondary schools and secondary schools and parents of socially disadvantaged categories are also running out of food. And I am pleased that the Government finally recognises that this policy needs to be corrected and that the area of the student diet is undoubtedly regulated. I hope that the story will not go as far as we have eaten beans and SMB balls in an army during another country's time, so that you will have the right measure by uniting school nutrition. I think it's a key question, not something, where and how kids are going to eat, to give them and their parents enough resources to eat whenever they want and what they want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u176	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will, of course, support the marriage. I think it's right to arrange a diet for such a vulnerable group of people or residents. That was a lot of talk. I agree with most of the arguments, and I will not argue with those who spoke about 2003. We're in 2008 today. However, I would like to remind my colleagues that, given what dates we have written in this law, I am actually afraid that the warm meal offered to the students today will be much cooler by 2009, if it does not even spoil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u178	Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, the self-named Lipa, we will support the bill. As we have already said in the presentation and in the debate. But there's one thing that bothers me terribly. We've all found that it's more of a pre-election goblin than anything else. The law is uncontentual. It's not systemic. The government's only answer to all the specific questions and the proposer was that we have another hearing and that we will only add content to the law. But if we turn back just one marriage, it was the same option, but under the same explanation, you simply rejected the law. Even then, you didn't want to add your contents. And if I recall all the laws put into the procedure by the opposition in this mandate, they have been rejected because they do not regulate anything integral, they are not really systemic and because they do not achieve any objective, but the government already has a system law. Today, however, that is the law under which you have rejected all the laws of the opposition or all the amendments of the opposition, you accept because you will add content to it in the second reading. I must say that all Members of the unaffiliated Members' Group, the self-appointed Lipa, will try to cooperate and add their content to this law. And I'm really worried, and I'll be happy to see you take it into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u180	Thank you. Is it still an interest? I'm reopening the application. Mrs. Jeraeva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The law has a very clear content for whoever wants it and can see it. Actually, it's enough that he can read. And I'm a little worried about my colleagues up there who don't see any content. The law is very clear about the fact that we want to provide one subsidised hot meal for every student in the Republic of Slovenia. Colleagues from Social Democracy have proposed that we should propose such a law at the beginning of the mandate. When I say why they didn't do something, they always tell me they can make laws whenever they want. And that's true. It would be very irresponsible of us to introduce such a law at the beginning of our term of office. This government and this coalition, at the beginning of their education mandate, had a large hole, that is, insufficient funds for teachers’ salaries. It would be very irresponsible to propose such a law at that time. Since then, three years have passed, economic growth has increased and is now highest in Slovenia alone. For the first time, at the end of the year, Slovenia had a surplus in the budget. Therefore, in our view, it is now the right time and does not explain to us when something should have been done because you had the opportunity to do it yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I will support this law myself, because I think for a long time it is possible to get a law that will go in the right direction, the way that young people, students, will also have a healthy diet. I am particularly pleased with today's debate because it has been clear that three parties: LDS, Real and Social Democrats are suffering a great deal by adopting a law that will give to students who will give to those who are in some trouble. And today's debate has also warned that if these parties win the elections, they will repeal this law, because they have brought Gaspari to their party and will concentrate public finances for large capital. It is important to warn Slovenian voters to pay attention to what is being done if such parties are to be elected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u184	I'd like you to stick to the agenda. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. As I have already said in the introductory debate, I do not mind that this is a matter of law that has been introduced primarily for pre-election reasons which has a pre-election objective. I'm glad he's bringing in something extra, something new and something for the students of the school. No, Comrade Franz? And that is why I am not disturbed at this first stage, and I will deliberately be naive and believe that the law will be improved in the next procedure. So I do not mind that it is not selective to give to everyone, even to those who might not need it, so that it is not a social adjustment, but a broad support which, as it is said, is not necessary everywhere and could be directed, say, to subsidising consumption in primary school to a greater extent. Nevertheless, it does bring one good thing, and it is an orderly diet. I hope, of course, that food will really be regulated in secondary schools, that it will be taken care of in the right place, in the right way and also for the right quality of food, the distribution of food and the consumption of this food. I will not object to this marriage. I estimate that it is not inappropriate for further consideration, although some in this Chamber are not interested. President, I would be very grateful if you would allow me to bring my vote to an end. He can't even hear the president. As it is said, I am glad that perhaps my intentional naivety will bear fruit and this diet will be more than two or three years from now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u186	Thank you. We can move on! Mr. Koren, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u187	Let me also say that I will support, vote in favour of this law. This is because I think it is necessary and good that we do it for our children to do it for our future. High school students also deserve a proper diet for their years and at least one warm meal a day when they are basically days away from home in school. I am also pleased that it seems that this support will be very good today. True, the debate today seemed to make it particularly difficult for the opposition to think that it was a pity that they did not propose this law themselves, since they are probably now aware that the position could not in any way be rejected. Otherwise, I understand that the LDS or SD would be difficult to propose because you have already rejected it twice. I would expect, for example, from the Zares Group, because it has not yet refused such a case to come up with such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u188	Thank you. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš has yet to raise her hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I'll try to be very short. The content of the law, yes, I will read it to you: "The Minister responsible for education shall issue a sub-law setting out in more detail the method and procedure for implementing the subsidisation of the student diet, the method of accounting and payment of the subsidy, the management of records and reporting, and the supervision of the work of operators and providers of the subsidised student diet." This is the content of a law to be laid down by a sub-law. Put your hand to your heart. It's deception, respectable colleagues and colleagues. Regardless of what we have said, and I will support the bill myself, because I believe that it is will and that power is also within not only coalition parties but also the opposition's ability to contribute to a good content that will have positive effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u190	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle's still up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u191	The opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was sent to the National Assembly on 31 January 2008, gives me the hope that the Government will fully implement this law in the 2008 budget rebalancing. If you do not propose this on your own, I myself will propose an amendment to the 2008 budget rebalancing. I hope that, unlike you in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, you will reject four consecutive amendments to increase your student diet, this time you voted differently. Why, then, today’s adoption of this law? Only to be implemented in 2010. Are you really so afraid of losing the election?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u192	Thank you. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 63 for them, against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted so that the proposal for a law will be allocated to the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport for a second reading as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 2nd item - agenda this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We first decide on the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 46. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 3. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u193	I will also explain my vote on behalf of the parliamentary group to warn those who will once apply this law of course that the law will also be passed on to an anomaly that has occurred in the fear of lawmakers, in order to ascribe to the rest of the post-war beatings among the archaeological groups. In the first variant, the version of the law was presented as postwar killings. Let me stress that we do not have any problems in the parliamentary group if there are also archaeologists involved in the study of post-war beatings. But we have a big problem and archaeologists will have, as a result, the Ministry, because now, from this definition of what is an archaeological remnant, one spectrum of those archaeological remnants that are perhaps less than a hundred years old fall into the new law and fall over fifty years. Which, in a desire to bring the war graves into the archaeological digs, came into this marriage. What am I talking about? I am talking about archaeological objects, which are over 50 years of age after the Maltese Convention, that's right, they have been protected under the current legislation, all of them. Whether they were underground or underwater or above the ground. Now you take them out, which means, if between 50 and 100 years of age, for example, the archeological remnant will no longer have this status and will trade with it, it will be able to pass unprotected. I warn and hope that at least until the third hearing, this may be examined. I'm not the only one to point that out. The profession has also seen here that you were so hasty that you are from the regulations that now say that archaeological objects are also all those over fifty years old, which are mosaics that are objects, not just the bones you now want, worth protecting. It is quite an expert question, but I hope that in the third reading, if you support this amendment leaving the article open, you can avoid it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u194	Thank you. We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present and voted 28 to 52 for them. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We decide on the amendment of Article 6 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 45. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Resais Group to Article 31. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u195	I will explain my vote on behalf of the Group of Members also because I am slightly in pain at the ease of dealing with this law. If you do not agree with what we propose to add to Article 31 the obligation not to leave the Minister or the Minister alone to decide when an object of cultural heritage is removed and when it is managed in some way, then a serious problem will arise because the profession will no longer have an opinion to determine whether a cultural heritage is worth protecting or not. If this is not the opinion that this amendment is going to send and that I think it's worth supporting, I don't know, then it's going to happen quite voluntarily that the cultural heritage, in our vicinity, is going to be quite a few very recent ones, which, because of profitable or other reasons, is going to be worth destroying, it's going to collapse. At least leave your opinion and do not underestimate it, as you underestimated it in your interviews in the preceding days, when you treated institutions for cultural heritage as some over-preservative, too conservative and, of course, for the heritage of an over-concerned institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u196	I can see another hand. Mr. Sculpture, please. On behalf of the Group of Members or on its own behalf? On behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is one of the key supplements for inheritance protection regimes. Article 31 speaks of the fact that the Minister may, without appropriate opinions, grant a permit for research and permission to remove the monument. What is proposed in the supplement is that the Minister still has this permission, but before that he will get the opinion of the competent memorial service. I find it difficult to understand why the ministry and the proposer can complement such a supplement, because it is this service that is crucial for assessing what is a monument, what is not, what elements should be kept, how it interferes with monuments, etc. This solution that the Minister himself can do this without them does not only mean the degradation of the profession, but it can mean the great will of the Minister. It also means a lot of responsibility, because different investors will be able to pressure the minister, and the minister will say so himself, because it's not worth anything, let's get rid of it. There have been many such discussions in Slovenia and there will be more. All that needs to be remembered here is the moves that the Ministry has been making in the public office of Kobilarna Lipica. This type of regime, which is now brought into law, will give the minister the full power to disregard the profession, and that when he wants to take into account someone third and the interest of investors and other world improvers, to wipe the monument off the face of the earth, the path back, as you know, never is. The reconstructions never reach the originals. What we should be aware of at the Ministry is that all heritage is precisely because it is fragile and sometimes in poor condition that protection is needed. And this option, which the Minister now receives, will make Slovenian heritage more vulnerable and I am thinking if this kind of supplement were not accepted, it would not possibly support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u198	Thank you. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, for 32, for 48. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 79. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members, 30 to 50. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have two amendments under Article 92, namely the amendment of Article 92 of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 29 to 48. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 92. Mrs Shirca, please explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u199	I supported the amendment that the Social Democrats proposed, which tried to respond to a dilemma that we have been working very hard with in Really. Not just in the client's office and not just in politics. The entire profession is dissatisfied with this solution you've made. This is said to be a recommendation made by the opinion-giving service, which will have incredible competences. This institution that will receive this is not satisfied, nor is anyone satisfied. And I don't understand why you insist on this and why you don't listen to professional definitions happen within an independent body, especially as independent as we propose when we propose a national council for the movable heritage and museums. I wonder what the area of education would say if one primary school, one secondary school, or one more important high school, such as in Ljubljana, were given some professional service within its school, within its public institution, which would decide about all other schools. You are doing this now with one public service, one museum, one institution that has its own director and its own professional council and so on and is subordinated to the Minister and Government, giving competences, thinking, professional advice and many other tasks. What if one hospital had a mission to think about the entire value healthcare system in Slovenia? Who would you answer to? The director of the hospital, Minister? In short, there is an inconsistent solution that will sooner or later hurt. And so that she doesn't get hurt, I think it makes sense for her to point her in a different direction. Mr Bevk tried it with his proposal in one and it's not bad. You didn't accept it. You still have a chance. Into a completely independent body. But as you've decided before, because you're afraid of the opinion, the opinions of the professional services, I'm afraid there won't be a hearing here either. That is why I fear for this law if it continues as it is in the second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u200	Thank you. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 32 votes against 47. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 95. Please welcome Mrs Shirca on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u201	Yesterday, I did not discuss this issue in provincial laws, which is also the subject of this article. All museums from 1.1.2009 will be, except for those at national level, and this is very few, they will in fact be abolished and created new ones at local or provincial level. The state will finance them at 80%, it will decide which ones they are, they will be called mandated museums and provincial or local communities will in fact not have sufficient autonomy and decision-making, even though they will be founders. We do not know by what standards and what they will have to ensure that museums become authorized. The law says they will have a period of time, perhaps the state will say in Slovenia Gradc, on Ptuj or in Koper, the museum, because it does not need to last more than one year, can only last one year. Maybe after two years, he'll quit. The lack of trust at the level of mandated new museums is very high. And I understand this fear expressed through public debate. I know and I see and I hear that, through Members, not really enough, but mayors, at least those who are now fighting for provincial legislation, know that this way, as is being enforced through this law, is very uncertain and is also dangerous for local museums. Especially if it does not complement the amendment introduced by this amendment, which says that the standards so far must not be reduced. I don't know if these museums will still be able to demonstrate in the future whether they will have the opportunity only for their collections and inventory, whether they will have the resources for the same systematisation or better labour systematisation. So many things are open, but I understand that culture is back there somewhere at the end and that now it's literally everybody's, as I see, "fuck."
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u202	Thank you. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 106. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 46. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 135. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 50. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments to the amended draft law in the second reading were not adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. I am opening my application on behalf of the Group of Members. Mrs. Zalokar Orazem is giving up. Is there any interest in explaining your voice in your own name? I see one hand, Mrs. Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u203	Thank you, Mr. President. What I'm trying to say is that I will not support this marriage. Madam Secretary of State has not been able to hear the concerns of all those we have proposed at Article 1 to open this article to a sound reflection on the appropriateness of the term 'living heritage'. Too bad she did it because her explanation of what a living inheritance meant, too, proved how unimaginable a solution would come into marriage. We are reintroducing a term that will cover three subsets of inheritance. It will be a living heritage, as explained by the one that has been preserved and we have so in our consciousness and we also live it, is the one that will be explored by the profession as a remnant of something on the basis of various things and will also be a living heritage and there will be something else that will appear as a replica in our consciousness from the past, because it will be a reconstruction of some events. It is a pity that we cannot use the terms that we have in our language, which would also be more coherent because the term 'living heritage' is related to others when income comes alive so different and occupied that it will not actually tell anyone much. If I speak of spiritual heritage, many will know more about what I am talking about than if I say I am talking about a living heritage; as he will know more if I say that I am talking about an intangible heritage or a intangible heritage. But in this National Assembly, it's just that the voice often understands the word "breakup." I will not support this marriage! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u204	Thank you. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 22. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 22.]] I find that the law has been passed I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Designation of Areas and on the Designation and Labelling of Settlements, Streets and Buildings. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities to Article 17. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, for whom 49 votes against 14. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I'm sorry, Mrs. Possonec. I noticed your hand too late. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u205	The Ministry of Environment and Space accepts the initiative- tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u206	Good. Thank you. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We are voting on this proposal. There are 84 Members present and 74 votes in favour against 4. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. On Wednesday, 6 February 2008, the National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the adoption of the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We will continue to break the 7th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the proposal for a law on foreign exchange transactions. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 82 Members and Members were present and 79 voted against. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public procurement. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are coming to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, for 80, against no one. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present, for 79, against no one. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda - third reading of the draft law on the prevention of domestic violence. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 82 Members and Members are present, for 81, against no one. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of Landscapes. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a law establishing the provinces is suitable for further consideration." In doing so, I would like to point out that, on the basis of Article 143(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a decision will be taken if 2/3 of the Members present vote for it. Mr Potč, explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go. Since there are several deadlines, I first open an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Please sign in. Mr. Potts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u207	Thank you very much. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. It is our desire that local self-government and through it then the provincial self-government form substantively in a way that will truly guarantee the claims that have been heard many times in the last two in the National Assembly. In order to ensure the necessary autonomy of the provinces, to ensure the necessary resources and competences of the provinces and to ensure that the provinces contribute to the faster regional development of Slovenia. In the Group of Social Democrats, we firmly believe that the legislation that has been drafted together with other provincial legislation does not guarantee this objective. For this reason, we were of the view that it would be right and appropriate to agree together on the postponement of the debate and the decision on provincial legislation, to try to form a majority view in the National Assembly at that time also on the proposed preliminary or consultative referendum on the establishment of the provinces and thus to reach the necessary majority in order to be able to adopt the provincial legislation. If we claim and the proponents of this legislation claim that there is a need for consensus, as we agree, this consensus should be built. We do not object to the fact that the Minister of Local Government has not met with us many times and that he has not tried to incorporate into the law the individual solutions to which we have warned, but the whole but, above all, the Law on the Establishment of the Province with its unclear landscapes, the fact that it is inconsistent, with historical aspects, that it includes in the provinces, especially in Ljubljana and some other, unacceptable solutions, the Financing Act, which does not allow for the province to have the independent resources required by the European Charter on Local Self-Government, and the Law on the Transfer of Powers, which we have started to discuss only yesterday, the three of which are related to such important issues that do not guarantee the success of provincial reform, so it is, in our opinion, better than the last one, and better to say that we do not support such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! We have an important moment ahead of us, Your Honor, perhaps the most important point in this reference to the mandate of the National Assembly, which Slovenia has been waiting for at least 15 years. For 15 years we have been talking about decentralisation, and about the province, regionalisation and similar things in all governments, and in all the mandates of the National Assembly. At this point in the last year, much of this coordination has been coordinated, discussed at all levels of the country: in the National Assembly between parliamentary groups, at Parliament level, at the level of municipalities, regions. There has been a lot of debate going on and there has been a lot of debate around the world in this spirit that, when we have turned on the change of the Constitution, we have seen the way that this can be done in this mandate. I am still optimistic that, despite the announcement of some of the parliamentary groups today, this opportunity to take this decisive step in this general debate, and that in the second reading that followed today's positive reception in the National Assembly, we will find those points that may still make you extremely sorry, harmonising them because there will be a deposit for the final adoption of the law of the provinces in Slovenia. That's not an excuse, and now it wouldn't be because it won't. Finally and last, you, honourable Members of the opposition, will have this law on the province when we accept it, if we adopt it. We want faster uniform development of Slovenia. We've talked about this a lot, and you support it, too. So we all want to balance Slovenia because the differences are enormous. Decentralisation - yes, there is simply no place for everything in Ljubljana and in central Slovenia. Unfortunately, people also live in the White landscape, in Prekmurje, in Koroška and elsewhere. Let them live a better life there, too. The brain drain and everything we've talked about, you agree, ladies and gentlemen. Today is our chance together. Let's say yes, let's move on with this legislation. And if we don't find ourselves at the second reading in common points, in numbers, in content, in financing, what you're saying is that it's not good, we're going to fix it, and then we're going to say: not legislation. I believe that the will is both in the government, in the coalition, and also in the part of the opposition, which supports us to come to this historic moment and to make Slovenia more friendly for all citizens, not only for those living in central Slovenia, in Ljubljana, but also for those living on the outskirts of another time, other conditions. I am confident that today's outcome of the vote will be such that I will gladly look at it again and remember it and today's session and that it will be positive and that in the second reading we will say yes. The voice "yes" is also the voice of understanding to all those who want more, better and more friendly environment where they live today. The provinces said - yes, the mayors said - yes, the State Council said - yes, the ZOS, the SOS said - yes, and many citizens said yes. It's up to you, dear colleagues and colleagues. I believe in your mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u210	Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister with colleagues! This National Assembly ordered the Government for the first time to prepare provincial legislation. This government did it in full, came to the National Assembly with a package of the first three laws and a package of the other three laws. The opposition had some comments. To all the comments, the coalition has been very delicate and has not so far decided on any significant comment that could have had a negative or negative impact on the positive outcome of the resolution of the legislation as the opposition would have wanted. However, today was a meeting of all political parties, and all that has been learned from this is that the United List requires a referendum, together with Really. This is clearly said to be an exclusive political manoeuvre. Some have apparently decided that, despite the fact that we have before us, when we have legislation, not just wishes for legislation, after 15 years, they will not do so. By countering and not voting on this law by a two-thirds majority, those who will be identified mean nothing to us. It is important to say, however, that, like the former coalitions in 12 years, they had the opportunity to do so and the legislation and everything else, but many things this coalition has done, which was not done before. Colleagues and colleagues, those against everything today, will be against the elections and voters, against citizens and citizens, against all elected municipal councils elected mayors, will be against the SOSU, will be against the Association; in short, against democracy. They obviously want centralization, and those, we won't be able to call them centralists, but I think they're political pests.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u212	Thank you. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u213	Your Honors are here! I'm going to come out of the word that one of the speakers said before me, that's reason. If you remember a few years ago when we were changing the Constitution, as a member of the Constitutional Commission, I demanded that the number of provinces be registered in the Constitution. For two reasons. For the first time, because then it will make our way to provincial legislation much easier. And secondly, because we will not get inflation in new provinces with every current government, what has happened to local communities, which have grown from a few ten to 210 local communities. So today it has proved to be the right decision, as long as we would have written into the Constitution years ago, when we changed the Constitution in this area, the number of provinces. For we have found that this time all three provincial laws took place around the basic issue - the number of provinces. The government proposal and, in my opinion, the Government's stubborn insistence on the fourteen provinces is bad from several titles. I will point out, however, what we think in the context of the group of unrelated Members called Lipa, that in particular the fragmentation of Slovenia loses the power of individual limbs that are not close to the centre. If we had 6 or 8 provinces in our country, these 6 or 8 provinces would also represent a specific interlocutor to the Government or to the National Assembly or to all institutions involved in such a policy in our country. By crushing Slovenia into individual plots, which will end later on number 20, we are not doing any service within our country. In doing so, taking into account the outstanding funding, the irregular sector-specific legislation and the misplaced tasks and obligations that future provinces will have to perform, we come to what needs to be avoided, that is, administrative units. If Slovenia does not need anything, additional administrations are without content. But I would like to point out to all those who speak of so-called centralisation, decentralisation. You know, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could transfer, in a minute, exaggeration, the day, all its ministries to a particular territory of the Republic of Slovenia, to a particular city municipality, which we have already had in the past. This would help in the first phase without much talk, without an annual debate already in order to approach decentralisation. From this title, the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members remains the same as it was. We estimate, however, that we can still find so much wisdom in this mandate and get on that train of landscapes, but the substantive, living landscapes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members, we will not really support the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes, of course not all other laws which are bound by this. We estimate that it is true that we have never been this close to the establishment of the provinces, but unfortunately they were not so close that they would have taken these provinces in the beginning in the wrong direction. And that is, of course, a danger that we must recognize and address. In particular, it must be said that some errors have been made that prevent them from adopting such a law for first reading as proposed. The first point that we have pointed out is that there has been an ongoing debate on the content of the provinces and similar matters over how big the provinces should be and what their social territorial organisation should be. What we have today cannot be accepted if we use only common sense. Remember, the setting up of the landscapes is not some random thing, that we can make up the landscapes just like that, the other a little bit different. The regions and regional division of labour, functions and territory in Slovenia exist. We can't get past her. We need to adapt the provincial legislation as closely as possible to these existing realities that exist, but not to work past them. Of course, some of these areas are catastrophic and we will never be able to accept them. It has been said that those against such provinces are centralists. And there's no evidence that our gentlemen haven't drawn to the day, but only, you could say, some flossules. The fact is, they operate with data in a way that is completely wrong. They operate with data that some areas in Slovenia have developed, I don't know, with an 83% increase, but some with only 50. Instead of being glad that some have developed so quickly and have encouraged others to do so, they want redistribution and so on. Wrong approach and wrong action! After all, it must also be said that there is less. In this case, the landscape is less, and in the end, why not also the people at the referendum decide about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u216	Thank you. And Mr. Milan Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of the LDS as elected representatives of the people do not run from the responsibility which, of course, concerns us in today's debate and decision. There have been many theatrical and dramatic words spoken yesterday, and in this long debate, we have actively, in our opinion, also participated LDS Members, and also yesterday, as we are going to do today, we have publicly opposed this key law, this is the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes. We highlighted in the debate that we are aware of the importance of establishing a new level of local self-government in Slovenia, we know that this part of the organisation is missing, that we are not comparable to Europe, and we are aware - not just because of Europe, because of us - that the province needs to be established. And these landscapes, such as those proposed by this proposed legislation, are unfortunately created inconsistently, inadequately, do not provide a development function that is the primary and most important in establishing the province. All the consequences that such landscapes would have suffered do not appear, do not hear, are not quantified and all of this leads us to believe that the basis for today's decision "for" does not exist. Such conditions, under such pressure at all costs and in particular after the unattainable consensus of all the parties represented in the National Assembly, have not changed the situation. Even yesterday, when we were experiencing a real psychological war, pressures with various forms of e-mail, phone calls, letters, that is to say all-powerful experiment, but unfortunately all without arguments, we weren't, of course, "wave" when we didn't change the decision. So, once again, Members of the LDS will vote against the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u218	Thank you. Any other desire for personal explanation? I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, I'll tell you one more time. You know, in the 12 years of the reign of the Liberal Democracy and the United List, several attempts were made in this National Assembly to enact a law to restore investment in the public telecommunications network. Finally, we adopted a law that was completely inoperable. Only with the arrival of this government did citizens and citizens receive this money and receive it back at this moment. With the rule of the Liberal Democracy and the United List, the law on diocese diet, which was tabled by the SDS Members, has not been passed in the 12 years. With the rule of the Liberal Democracy and the United List, they brought only information on activities related to the introduction of the provinces to the National Assembly at the end of 1994. Even then, it was written that it was 14 provinces. Even then, it was known to be a political reality. And today to talk about that this is not appropriate, that we do not have a sufficiently well-written law on financing. During the reign of the Liberal Democracy, when they passed the Law on Local Self-Government, they established congregations, and a few months later there was no Law on Community Financing. Colleagues and colleagues, this is not correct and it is not fair, admit before this Slovenian nation that you are doing him harm with this maneuver. As for the fellow seal - to write 14 provinces into the Constitution. Imagine, colleagues and colleagues, what it would look like if political parties were to be written into the Constitution, then the so-called Lipa would not be today. That's why I'm going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u220	Thank you. Mr. Gulic. No, no, no. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u221	Your Honor! This table is more than eloquent, which says the following. The regions or here are recorded statistical regions, and in the case of my Gorenjska this is very similar, so there is no problem, they have progressed well over the past decade. But what helps Gorenjska if she has made progress for 5,000 euros if after the gross product per inhabitant she is now central Slovenia or after home Ljubljana twice as long as she was formerly. These differences are even greater when we reach other provinces, such as Pomurska or Zasavska. And today we are really deciding whether to say this directly, whether a billion and a quarter euros, colleagues and colleagues, will remain at the central cash register in Ljubljana or will be given to the provinces themselves to take greater responsibility for their development. The former was an example of municipalities that have been completely turned around, and in fact the smallest municipalities in Slovenia are the most beautiful and fastest to develop. Whoever wants to make sure of this, I invite him to come and see to us Shenchure, Church, Predvor, Naklo, Lake, what progress has been made in these relatively small congregations. And here, when people can decide on their destiny, because of prestige, some people take the right to reduce the development potential of Slovenia, because it is only about prestige, the fact that we are at the first stage of consideration, when each of the laws submitted can be changed literally from the title to the last point. This is said, with some good will, with some of our joint efforts, we could achieve this common development goal. But since this government and this ruling coalition have succeeded in reforming the Constitution, it is now a simple political gesture, elections are too close, God forbid to change legislation in the direction of the provinces, even though you yourself know that mayors [[...]] [[The microphone's out of the way.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr. Juban. I'm asking you to calm down a little bit. Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before yesterday's debate, I decided to press the quorum for the debts we had experienced in those days. Maybe unlike his fellow Members. But when I hear that those of us who don't want to go to law, against development, towards more consistent development, against people, against voters, forgive me, for me, this is just bullshit. And it leads me to press "against" in spite of everything that I've decided on the quorum. What you're saying is not true! And this billion is something, it's only 16% of the state budget, when the President of the Government says you're going to do everything yourself, 84% of the money will be left in the government's treasury to distribute to the government. In addition to the many solutions that we have warned you about, you have been warned that you are trying to understand and that we agree - we have not agreed on anything. Those of you who are the loudest today, or those who have been with us in the previous assembly of Parliament, have in unreasonable ways blocked the adoption of such legislation. Do you know what kind of stupid amendments we had in our proposals? 2/3 voters must choose territories, seats, 2/3 municipalities must be in favour, etc. You've blocked the procedures and we'd be moving forward today as we were if we hadn't pulled political bills out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u224	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u225	Your Honor! I will be very happy to support this land law for at least three reasons. Firstly, this legislation is necessary because it will allow for a more even development of the whole of Slovenia. Another time. That this legislation is, in my opinion, the only option for the decentralisation of the country of the Republic of Slovenia, which we have been talking about for the last ten years. And the third time. That people in the Slovenian Mountains or in the Styria region will earn the same pay for the same work done as they deserve in Ljubljana. And to the end, dear colleagues and colleagues! Those who think differently today and do not support this legislation will do so against the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, against the mayors, and I am sure that this legislation is necessary today for the benefit of the Slovenes and Slovenes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u226	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u227	Thank you for your word. I would like to remind you that the National Assembly, by a large majority, has adopted a change to the Constitution, which allows us to talk very seriously about the provinces today, and if we are honest, a serious discussion about the provinces has actually only taken place when we have received the texts of the entire package of legislation that is necessary for the provinces in Slovenia to be introduced. Before that, there were such and different arrangements, but no one knew exactly what the province meant. And today, when we read these laws, we can at least get a sense of what this proposed province is meant to be. In short, it can be concluded that it is not actually a developmental landscape, but rather a transfer of some of the funds to those employees who are already employed in the state administration, so that the number of employees will certainly increase and costs for the state administration and the provincial administration will of course continue to increase. That developmental part of the landscape is not really visible anywhere. And here is this serious dialogue that we really need to start and bring to that point in order to provide adequate resources for development as well. This is one element missing from this legislation. The second is that, in fact, the breakdown of Slovenia into 14 provinces is not designed to ensure a truly balanced development of Slovenia. In particular, I would like to point out that the southern part of Slovenia, where Kočevska also belongs, has been released. And I can say that Kočevska does not gain anything by such a form of provincial legislation and many other places in Slovenia do not. However, this southern part of Slovenia does not really gain anything and therefore I cannot support this package of legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u228	Thank you. Any other interests? I can see the hands. I am reopening my application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. Here you go, Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me start by saying that without any bad conscience and with a sincere intention to work for the good of Slovenia and citizens and citizens in this country, this law and the rest will be supported. I'm aware that any marriage can make any further improvement. That is why we also have a procedure that is not one-phased, but we have a procedure in which we deal with this legislation at several stages. And those who say that this is not the best solution that is proposed, but if they have a serious, fair purpose, then when they want to stop the legislative process already today, they actually deny the possibility of really improving this legislation. And that's what I'm trying to say. I regret that, despite the great support that this legislation has received on the ground, from the Community of Communities, to the Union of Municipalities, to the municipal councils, that all this support has been ignored and that these democratically elected representatives in this assembly represent nothing. Since I come from the Podrav region alone, it especially means a lot of support or an opinion of the environment from which I come. And so, for example, I received yesterday's post from the world of the Podrav region, which covers 41 municipalities in this area and endorsed the adoption of this package yesterday. I, as a resident of this area, cannot possibly get past this, even without this opinion I would support this issue and I will do so, no matter how others decide, even though some, I see, with a smile or a laugh, they accompany my performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u230	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I will support this by continuing to regulate and seek agreement on the adoption of provincial legislation. We are in the general debate, and I am extremely surprised and disappointed that we have reached a broad consensus in amending the Constitution to proceed with such a concept of provincial legislation. Imagine that there are two families in Slovenia, one is a family of municipalities with 210 municipalities, and the other is a country with these organizational units, which have very different distributions across Slovenia. It is already a great achievement to unify all state-owned organisational structures in the provinces, as they are supposed to be, and that these state officials, who now mostly operate from the most developed part of Slovenia, from the capital, would then work in these provincial organisational structures and would already lead to much better regulation of Slovenia. I am asking all of you to try to understand all of this and let us move on to the drafting of this provincial legislation. In fact, any major change, a larger symmetry requires even then through the time of adjustment, improvement and it is difficult now to criticize everything in advance and also anticipate everything. In any case, for the first time in such a point, we have all the legislation on the table and that we have reached such consensus in changing the Constitution so that we can continue to be creatively. I am asking for support for the continuation of the formation of Slovenian provinces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u232	Thank you. Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u233	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will vote against this bill. The reasons were more than not mentioned yesterday, but, however, that I should shrug up, especially because this package of legislation does not incorporate development, people are not taken into account. If we look at all these 14 regions, you'll see that there's support coming from everywhere, but on the other hand, there are, of course, great concerns and dissatisfactions. I believe it is in the interest of all of us to have regionalisation, but of course it is not in the interest of all of us to develop small centres of power and to arrange some Slovenian Counties in some way. The law is supposed to be directed towards the future, towards development, but I must tell you that in no way is this development component involved. Sometimes a little bit more historical, a little bit less, everywhere actually "hot" people, who then see only their own region, and as far as it is, it doesn't matter, so was promised in the field. But if I look at the victory that speaks of the Kamni-Sava region, I can complete the story. This is such an artificial creation that, in fact, the NSK State is more real than the Kamni-Saw region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u234	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I am extremely skeptical about the adoption of the entire package of provincial legislation, because from law to law, the situation is worse and worse. I think that the highlight of the bad qualities is actually contained in the last law that we have begun to consider, and this is the law on the transfer of competence to the provinces, which has no direct connection with the law on the financing of the provinces and therefore the whole project is not acceptable. As a result, it is also problematic to have a fundamental law, a law establishing landscapes, which, apart from the flaws which are built into it, also has a flaw, that none of these laws, which are fundamental, financial and organisational, and which is also based on competences, is, in fact, disguised by the Law on the Establishment of Landscapes. Not to mention that only in recent days have we been able to hear the protests of people who in no way agree with the territorial layout or design of the landscapes, such as what colleague Gulič has already said, say, the Kamni-Saw province, which is a completely unnatural and artificial creation and does not link people together, which in fact the landscape should basically do. It is essential that it connects people with similar interests. And another thing I can say is that there are also problems, such as the Notran Region, and we can list a number of other problems that have only recently come up and say that they are not satisfied. That's why, of course, I can't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u236	Thank you. Mr. Bevk, he's giving up. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u237	However, given that I have already publicly explained my view of the decentralisation of Slovenia, I think it is right to comment on the conduct of the entire Parliament at this point, which is obviously very hot. I think that this government has shown in this mandate a serious intention to decentralise Slovenia, including by listening to citizens and citizens and by setting up municipalities where people wanted it. Decentralisation starts at home, starts in the village, starts where people are willing to take responsibility for their own management in their own hands. That's what the previous government, the previous coalition, never wanted to hear. It is said that this method of decentralisation rejects. Now that the Constitution has changed, and today I have not heard from any Member to see the principle of decentralisation through the provinces, I cannot understand why the opposition does not accept the Government proposal if it believes in this way of decentralisation across the provinces. And of course, this debate today convinces me that the opposition or the previous government coalition has never been decentralised. If she did, I would support anything on the table today, and because she intends to win the next election, she would simply correct that legislation in her own right. That is why I note that, in fact, the only problem is that there are not enough people in this House who want to decentralise Slovenia. But between me and my colleagues, there's only a difference in the concept. However, I must say, this government coalition actually wants to decentralise Slovenia, whether by strengthening the municipalities, as it has proved in this mandate, or through the provinces where we differ, where I have become a black sheep in some way and which has not been pressured and no one has in some way sanctioned me. That is why I am very surprised and think that what the opposition is doing today is actually some kind of politics and also some kind of political casino. I think it's unfair. She's changed. [[...]] [[microphone off]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u238	Thank you. Mr Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u239	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will support this package of legislation, but it is obvious that there will not be enough votes. And here's what I want to say. Certainly, we will not adopt provincial legislation with the same thought as it is heard here, in this Chamber with these extremes, when some colleagues say that the adoption of this legislation is against Ljubljana, and on the other hand, when some find that if we adopt this legislation, it will be very low in those regions where the data on gross domestic product is to be drained of milk and honey. I'm sure that won't happen. All the laws that we have adopted here in this National Assembly are not - none of them are like that to everyone. I regret only that the distinguished Minister has done a great job with his team, so that probably no member of the government in the history of the Republic of Slovenia has walked so much through the ministries or through the parliamentary groups and coordinated legislation. We have also participated in this, and at the end of the day, when the whole thing is open, it is also acceptable for me and also for our Group of Members. So, we still have all the options, but we've come to this point, and now, I hope to say, due to a certain political calculation, the matter needs to be stopped and the elections have to happen and we have to move on. I don't think that's good and that's not right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u240	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u241	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Minister, the government's representative. I will support the positive proposal to conclude that the Law establishing the provinces is a good basis for further consideration. After today's discussion with the President of the Government, all the champions of the parliamentary parties, including the leaders of the parliamentary groups, were present, I found that today is actually a black Friday to establish a second level of local self-government or to implement the principle of subsidiarity in Slovenia. I myself have suggested that we take a few more days to think about it, from yesterday I have, above all, taken a rather high-quality debate with the opposition. It was a disagreement about funding, it was a disagreement with the number of provinces, it was a disagreement with the date of implementation, maybe something else. I mentioned this myself today, and I suggested that we talk about it again - there was no listening. We proposed last July to reopen the debate on the number of provinces. Because of this crass or disgusting political reality, we have stopped in front of the wall, but today again after this conversation I have mentioned, I conclude that the opposition is a priority against the enforcement of the provinces. This is also true if the opposition opposes the laws at first reading. I am sorry that Pomurje will wait 34 years again for the development of the central Slovenian province, assuming that the development dynamics in Pomurje will be the same as now and that the central Slovenian province will be waiting for development. Well, Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u242	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u243	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will support the bill establishing the provinces. First, I'd say maybe just one look back. It was said why we did not already determine the number of provinces when changing the Constitution. You know, you can't do that, just like you would have already determined by the Constitution the number of municipalities or anything. It is necessary to follow a normal path, first of all to determine what these provinces will do and so on. And, of course, this leads to the number of landscapes. Thus, of course, it was not possible to do so before. I was today a major part of the meeting of the presidents of all parliamentary parties and the leaders of the parliamentary groups as an optimist. I am convinced that the opposition has witnessed the willingness of the coalition representatives, that there can be a lot of solutions that are presented in all these laws, that they can be worked out so that they can be changed. I think that my colleague Horvath has listed some of the dilemmas before me and it would be possible to discuss them during the first to second reading, or perhaps within a few days of the vote on the first reading we have today, in order to be able to address them, to possibly change them. And when we talk about the need to develop all parts of Slovenia. I think it is necessary to say that development needs both Ljubljana and other areas. Prof. Zagozhen, ours, sometimes said that if this goes on, half of the population of Slovenia will be in Ljubljana. And this must also be feared by Ljubljana due to various transport problems, environmental problems, social problems and so on. I will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look. Much has been said for the substantive reasons why such an organization of lands and numbers is not good. As an objection, 14 provinces appear to be a political reality. This is a political reality, but the reality that you built in the coalition yourself when you walked through Slovenia and did not say that the young people would be told to every major place that the province would be. And then you faced your own promises. And I knew this was gonna end badly. For the reasons that have been said, I have always wondered what it is that you say that the development of the landscapes will now be more even, that the development of Slovenia will be more even. And when I saw this table measuring gross product growth from 1995 to 2005, and I compared the Land Establishment Act, of course, it became clear to me. Gentlemen, you're right! Slovenia will be more evenly developed. But not in five years. The moment this law is passed! Because from central Slovenia you will take Domžale, Kamnik, Mengeš and put them in the Zasav region, which is least developed. This will increase statistically more even development; such a development that will not change, except the statistics that you will show. We do not need such development, nor do we benefit in any way. This "fiction" won't work. Small regions have no chance of being an autonomous development generator, and we all know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u246	Thank you. Any other interest in explanation? Yeah. I'm reopening the application. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u247	Thank you very much. On 20 June 2006, we adopted constitutional amendments with 69 votes in favour and 7 against. Apart from one parliamentary group that voted against it in its entirety, we supported constitutional changes by the Members of all the parliamentary groups. Now that we have the texts of the laws before us, some of you decide to vote against it. Yes, you can! All the dilemmas you've opened will remain open for the next three or four years. Nothing, exactly no dilemma is going to change because the marriage at first reading is not going to change. But it is only the adoption of the law at first reading, the path that allows all those who have concerns, whatever, to any solution that is proposed to make an amendment. Obviously, you've decided not to file any amendments. In fact, even more so that these amendments are not that concrete proposals for financing solutions, in the number of landscapes, in the inclusion of the common landscape, are not easy. You don't want to face them. And I have to say, I'm kind of disappointed in the decision you're about to make. Slovenia needs the landscapes, needs them for the sake of coherent regional development and needs them to make certain parts of Slovenia look significantly different than they do when it is decided in this National Assembly. I wonder, or we might ask, what would Slovenia be like if the provinces were established ten years ago? Would you still be dealing with the third developmental axis? Would you like to open the Dolenjska, for example, or would you remain closed to Dolenjska as it is now? I don't think so. To take care of the provinces first of all for their communications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u248	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u249	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I will be very pleased to support the bill itself, because I believe that this proposal is an excellent starting point, that this text can be improved or reached even more consensus, although this text is essentially a consensus of expectations and also the desire of people from Slovenia, the mayors and also all those who need it. I trust my opposition colleagues and colleagues that they do not believe this proposal for a law drafted by the Government that they do not believe the positions of Members. It surprises me, however, that they do not believe the great majority of mayors, among whom there are very many mayors of their kind, that they do not believe in the worlds of the regions, that they do not believe many people across Slovenia who want us to support this law. Their vote against this law is essentially to vote against the mayors and against the people. I am sure that if they vote against this decision, they will certainly have to put it before their constituents and voters. I myself, as I said, will be happy to support this law because it is for the benefit of Slovenia, for the benefit of decentralisation and the region, only to contribute to the greater and faster development of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u250	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u251	Thank you very much. In short, because I see that all fellow Members and colleagues somehow want to express how they will vote, despite the fact that they had the opportunity yesterday and have been telling the Slovenian public all day; I would like to say the following that the proposal for these 14 provinces is actually a proposal from the previous mandate and that this continued in this mandate and that I personally think that what some opposition members have now done is actually pure cynicism, they have always advocated something they knew they would not support. I've always been skeptical of the number of 14 landscapes, not just to stab myself with a number more or less, but simply because I wanted to stay in Styria as Styriac. After all, Styria gave two great men to this country; Rudolf Maistra and Slomska, who defended Slovenia against the influence of Germany and are also thanks to them today Slovenia is the same as it is. This proposal for division into 14 provinces, of course, is the Styrian literal number between 3, 4 future provinces and thus Styria as such loses some historical importance that she has had throughout all this time. Even if you want, the Maribor archdiocese after the new among the 4 future provinces. If what I have heard from my colleagues in the People's Party, Mr President, Mr Kramberger, it is still possible that by the second stage this proposal, which we have today, I am ready to vote in favour of this proposal and I also invite my opposition colleagues to support it today and then we are trying to find a common language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u252	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. Look, this law will have to be voted on by 2/3 of those present if it wants the law to be passed. And I think it is a shame that today, when we decide on this, the first reading, given how much effort has been made and since we have never come to this area or the former government has not come as far as it is today to not support it. Since it is not actually a final decision today, everything remains open, it still depends on how it will be voted on in the third reading. I must say that I am sure that the new proposer, whether this government, the other government, will never come with such a solution as to be ideal. I firmly believe that it will also be very difficult to make a difference in the area of provincial legislation. There's been a lot of talk about funding, about the transfer of tasks, and I don't know what else we've been discussing. About the number of provinces. We, Nova Slovenija, were the first to advocate for a small number of provinces, but if this is a political reality today, then it is 14 provinces. As my colleague Sok mentioned earlier, who adopted the Harmonised Regional Development Act on statistical regions where 12 statistical regions were introduced at the time and in fact you prepared the basis for the provinces. And to conclude. I think it is a shame if today it is not supported not to vote in favour of this law in a positive way.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u254	Thank you. Mr. Prevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u255	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I myself will be happy to support the Law establishing the provinces with all my responsibility. Unfortunately, we note that this law will today only be difficult to adopt in the vote. I can say that I was an optimist until the moment the representatives, the presidents of the parliamentary parties came here and told us the bad news that they failed to agree on this in order to postpone the vote, perhaps for a few days, perhaps for the next session. I am sure that if, of course, we are, with all seriousness and responsibility, all of us sitting in this room, we want the landscapes. But we want decentralisation. At least that's how we all make sure. Then I am sure that those disagreements that are still decisive in this regard could be resolved either by Wednesday or next Wednesday, or by the next meeting. But that is exactly what confirms that the will, unfortunately, is not in the opposition and I am increasingly convinced that the opposition a priori opposes the adoption of this provincial legislation. I'm really disappointed. After many years of work by Minister Žagar and his associates, and of course after such thorough preparation for the establishment of the provinces. However, unfortunately, at this point, I find that this work was in vain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u256	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss it on their own? I can see the hands. I am reopening my application for reasons of vote on my own behalf. Please sign in. Mr. Bručan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u257	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. In particular, I would like to welcome, in explanation of vote, also Minister Žagar, and thank him for all the work he has done with his team in the preparation of this legislation. In fact, at that time, he reached some consensus with the opposition, at least part of the opposition, which unfortunately now in the final stage showed her face somehow to negotiate and negotiate with the fig in her pocket. I think that this should be known and that this is also crucial when we assess today's vote. I think that when we today, very likely, at least after the debate, did not vote on this legislation, in fact, we have seen that the opposition never, in fact, today's opposition, even when it was in a position before, has never been before that the provinces would actually be constituted. The provinces mean something good for the whole of Slovenia. They do not mean good for politics, they mean good for the population and for the development of the whole of Slovenia, not just for individual places and regions. That is why I do not understand this decision of yours, which you are now ordering and which I regret, and you will probably also regret it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u258	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u259	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I do not intend to support the proposed law at first reading. It is not about expressing any a priori opposition to the provinces. Those who wish to take the opposition's decision to this mill are wrong and it is evident that you are wrong to have the Constitution amended and that this statement about whether or not the provinces are needed has been made. We should now decide what these provinces should be like. And the responsibility for what was happening should be taken by the one who launched the first conscience that 14 provinces are a political reality. At this point, he said it was a political decision. Don't say it's against people now, it's against a political decision that doesn't have strong enough professional arguments. And I stress in particular that my vote will not express anger or regret, nor of course any particular joy. It is a responsible action that is willing to face what you are doing right now, respected coalition colleagues. To sit on us with sulphur and evidence that is not reasoned. The only question is: Who will be sorry sooner, who later? The decision to say that to this legislation would now wash your eyes, but it would impose on me responsibility for bad legislation. Remember that we have proposed many laws, which were once accompanied by good content, but never adopted, and how much you have changed from the first to the second reading ever in line with promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u260	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u261	Thank you very much. The claim that the opposition, at least the Social Democrats, have not offered any willingness to talk, is unrealistic. It is not the first time that colleagues and colleagues of the leaders of the parliamentary groups try to justify their own conduct by making accusations. In fact, it was the total ignorance of the coalition and the Prime Minister of the Government of any proposal made by the opposition to proceed with the procedure and to seek common solutions. We have suggested that this postponement is not a matter of days, we have proposed that there should be a discussion of the consultation referendum on the number and manner of organizing the provinces, neither of which the President of the Government and the Coalition has, nor has, wanted to hear, so do not say that there were no offers, they were, but we cannot accept that it can be said that the problems in the province's legislation are only a few concrete solutions. If we accepted this debate today, next week the coalition and the President of the Government would say, "Where do you have the amendments for the original source of funding?" Where do you have amendments for different landscapes? and pretend to be ready for normal joint action. However, we wanted substantive discussions to be held on whether the concept of legislation is adequately prepared on the subject of organisation, on the subject of financing, on the subject of competence, and this does not allow debate to take place within a few days. We are not prepared to adopt non-quality legislation. Legislation that is not development-oriented, which does not have separate resources for the provinces, which will also cause congestion in the operation of the activities being carried over, is not for us.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u262	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. As mayor of the municipality with development problems, I no doubt want very much the establishment of landscapes, decentralisation and additional resources. With this story I have been busy for some time, and I must say that I am afraid of these dilemmas, so that those powers that we are now moving from Ljubljana will stop in Kranj on one hand and we will not reach Tržič. The fact is that provincial legislation is necessary. We also hear many times that if we do not support it, there will be a billion and a quarter of the funds. No moment now, whether or not the provinces will or will, prevents the government from placing these funds in those congregations and those areas that are needed for assistance. And another dilemma. Today there was much to be heard, even a little impatient, who is against the saints, who are against the mayors. As a serious and responsible Member, I sent an e-mail to all the municipalities of Gorenje two days ago to all the mayors with the following text: "On Friday the National Assembly will decide on the adoption of the provincial legislation, I would like to base my decision on the opinion of the mayors of all Gorenje. Because I am aware that the law does not take into account the majority position of the Gorenjecs or the position of the mayors, I ask you for your opinion." Of those mayors from all over Gorenjska who responded, more were those who were temporary, quick solutions to the weak, unimaginable provinces opposed. I promised that I would keep all the names that any of them had told me anonymously. I have a document and paper that we will be able to discuss at a joint meeting of mayors, but the majority opinion of the Mayors of Gorenjska this moment of the establishment of fast, instant provinces is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u264	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that today we will lose everyone and the country as such because we have not been able to find a common language for politicians, to bring this project to its end and to accept this great project, as it had been in history, with acclimation. Many times it has been said in these debates that it is necessary to respect the profession, but it has not been taken into account if I look at it according to my criteria, forgive me. There were between six and eight provinces. Here to form landscapes that will be Davids against Goliath are from the outside without meaning. We should find at least one ratio between one and the other. Look, this coalition, every honor, capo down, I speak publicly in this space, act as the most "crowded" voting machine I have experienced in eighteen years. Here are the specialists, here's where the arguments go when there's a vote to be made, just like I haven't experienced it anywhere. And the lack of my coalition is that human note, when it would have to be agreed when it would have to come to consensus, when it would have to come to a result, and here it cancels. I think the coalition the voters gave her this opportunity to lead this country on this exam today and here has fallen. There have been offers of hands or referendums, that is not; a deadline has been offered, let us give it today. Mr. Ferry suggested, let's sit down, let's talk, let's not decide today and do what we do. I think that's the way, well, if you guys are falling in love, you're talking, but you didn't agree. [[...]] I don't think it would be too bad for such an important project if we waited two or five days. But the axe is down. We'll decide today. I will abstain, even though I would prefer to have legislation a thousand times so that I can vote in favour. Mr. Secretary, you've come as far as you can, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u266	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u267	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, I am not against the regions. But I'm against the regions, I'm against the provinces at all costs. I don't want to be involved in the construction of a two-engine aircraft that's missing one engine, but we're going to fix the other one when something turns out wrong. That is why, of course, I do not want to participate in the adoption of legislation such as this one here. Thank you very much. And I don't want a plane like that either, and especially because of Pomur, which has already been discussed. There will be a region in any political reality. I do not want such a political reality, which does not provide Pomour with the extra money that Ljubljana will catch up with so that the differences will not increase further. For this political reality is nowhere to ensure that this table, which we have already seen today, will be levelled to a more balanced one. On the contrary. Regions that are less developed will now be at the start of the rear. And so to speak. The less developed regions do not have any additional money, they do not have the additional incentive to catch up with the regions ahead of them. Now, of course, the coalition, when it sees the water running down its throat, appeals, and also by pushing pressure on us to support it. But where were you? You knew from the beginning you needed two-thirds. Where were you when this plane started building and maybe we could step together and provide another engine that is not there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u268	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. If the opposition's willingness to regionalise Slovenia were sincere, we would today be able to adopt the law and start the second phase of regionalisation. We did the first thing when we adopted constitutional changes. Second. I am sure that Mr Minister is with his services, not because he comes from the same party as himself, he has done everything he can to get this legislation. I think he's done a lot of interviews both in the parliamentary groups, with political parties, and not least in the field. To refresh the memory, let me tell some why we have 14. They're not this coalition, this minister's not the one who came up with the proposal. The agreement between the United List of Social Democrats and the LDS within the mandate of 2002-2004 was to add another thirteen, which is called Ptujska and the fourteenth, which is called Velenska or SAŠA. And we did the same in this mandate when we adopted the Harmonised Regional Development Act, when we made fourteen out of the 12 statistical figures. For this reason, once again, colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, if we were truly prepared to regionalise Slovenia, we would support the draft law at first reading and then cooperate constructively with all of us to come to the second and third reading of good laws, good landscapes that allow the decentralisation of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u270	Thank you. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, for 50, for 27. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - the first reading of the bill on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council, the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The bill on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, for 48, against 28. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the law or decision has been adopted. The draft law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal of the Law on the Transfer of Orders to the Competence of the Provinces. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on the transfer of orders to the jurisdiction of the provinces is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, for 49, against 28. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on divination and hunting. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of Article 6 of the Social Democrats' Group. If the amendment is adopted, it shall become an amendment under number 2 to the same Article without prejudice. Mr Weber on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u271	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Let me say on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats that we have tabled an amendment to Article 6, namely that the amendment is deleted. For the article states that the period of the fishing concession shall be reduced from 20 to 10 years without any serious professional justification. Here, too, if we are trying to read only the amendment of the law tabled by the Government, it has even been suggested that the current concession solutions could actually end after one year, indicating that there was no professional justification for such a change. Let me also say that the minimum condition for late voting on the law is fully adopted by this amendment. If this amendment is adopted, of course, we will be willing to vote in favour of the law. However, if the amendment is not adopted, I predict that we will also vote against the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u272	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u273	In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the amendment to Article 6, because in many other areas we have granted concessions for more than 10 years and are proving to be good and positive. Slovenian hunters and hunters in their 100-year history prove that we are good, honest and successful masters on our land. Therefore, there is no reason for the concession period to be reduced, even more, even from biology and from the life cycle of the game there is no reasonable reason why the period would be 10 years. In nature, all processes and all developments take place at a significantly longer time interval, and we therefore strongly support the amendment to this article. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u274	Thank you. Three others have been reported on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellows and fellows, dear fellow hunters! In the Group of Members, we will indeed vote in favour of this amendment, and it is only sad that we are voting on this today, that we have not been able to make so much sense and understand that we should have made this decision already last year, that we have already decided at a time when hunters were just waiting for the celebration of the 100th anniversary of their successful and important mission, but that because of the proposaler or because the Government used a constitutional decision and also changed those articles that had already been closed or harmonised and wanted to change and shorten their time, we wanted to bow to some or politicians or to someone else who wanted to shorten this period, which had already been fixed and which had already been used in the granting of other concessions and that everyone who knew a little bit about hunting, knows that it was 10 times, and that it was past 100 years for protection, for retraining, for education, for the period of transition, that 10 times. There have been so many cases of what could happen if, in relation to nature, the first President of the Hunting Union of Slovenia said to the animals that, in this way, all the words that were said 100 years ago in the founding assembly of the Hunting Union of Slovenia would be undermined, and it is a shame that we did not decide before the new year, but even if the gift comes at the 100th anniversary with a month or two of delays, we will be happy and I suggest that you support these amendments for the rest of your colleagues as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u276	Thank you. Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u277	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, both in the general examination of the law and in the second reading, we said that we would support the provisions already in force in the existing law. For this reason, we will support the first amendment of the Social Democrats, which deletes the provision that shortens the concession period, which is supposed to be granted to the hunting families that are currently in charge of fishing in Slovenia. This preserves the applicable provision of the law which defines the concession for hunting families for a period of 20 years. However, we expect the Government, as well as the Ministry, to tender concessions immediately after the adoption of this law in the third reading and its publication in the Official Journal and not wait, as it has waited for these three years in this period and has not granted concessions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u278	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, hello to all the hunters on the balcony. In New Slovenia we will not support either the first proposal or the second one to Article 6. It's not a problem for 10 or 20 years. You know our position. Because we believe that the state cannot grant private property concessions. This is a problem, or a different view of the law in Novi Slovenije. And nowhere in Slovenia does the country grant concessions on private property. And no matter how much she spends for 20 years or what she is. The state here takes rights that do not belong to it and this right or this does not agree with the owners of the land, nor with those who live from the land that they are farming and therefore we oppose. Nor have they taken into account the opinions of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, trade unions, societies, other than hunting organisations. That is why we, not this article or the others, will not support it, nor will we support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u280	Thank you. Mr Jelinčič is still on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u281	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, a nice greeting to the green brotherhood up here. I hope you didn't bring "guys" with you. We will certainly support this amendment tabled by the Social Democrats in the Slovenian National Party. After all, we are not for shortening concessions, and I think hunters have taken good care of both the hunting grounds and the game and everything else. I think without hunters today, Slovenia would be empty. We'd beat up all the wildlings, there'd be nothing left for our craftsmen. After all, if this law is adopted as badly as it is written, in this case we may think that about 20 species in Slovenia will soon die out. I think this would be a crime of nature and of humanity, so rest assured, all support for you, both in this amendment and in further amendments, but at the end of the law, we will decide how these amendments will be adopted, how we will vote. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u282	Thank you. Please, participants and guests, do not disturb the meeting! Mr. Gniedarsich!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Our Group of Members will also support this amendment. Of course, this amendment was also our condition, all the time to uphold the law as a whole. And we are counting on this to be the fundamental change that has been hanging in the air for so long and which has been an obstacle that we have not yet adopted this law. I hope that this is also the only change that is still necessary, and in this sense we really support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u284	Thank you. Does anyone want to discuss it on their own? Yeah, well, since there's multiple applicants, I'm opening the application. To explain the voice in its own name. Please sign in. Mr. Sok, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. Regardless of our debate, I must say that Slovenian hunting legislation is a kind of unique within the European Union. In fact, last night a constitutional lawyer, Dr. Rod. No matter how we decide, with all due respect for hunters, all that they do to preserve nature, we must say that Slovenian farmers do the same, and they also preserve nature. There will remain some conflict on the one hand between hunters who do not own agricultural land but engage in some hunting activity and, on the other hand, those who own agricultural land and do not decide on anything under this law. In New Slovenia, we have always tried to compromise in order to allow some form of cooperation through the law. Unfortunately, we find that we did not have the majority support and that this conflict of situation will continue to be recorded in the amended law. How do you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that we will keep high-mountain farms while at the same time not allowing high-mountain farmers to survive. Austria can have forests in concessional management, and it can also own wildlife. A Slovenian who's a few miles away can't do that. Ten, 15 years from now, there will be no mountain farms, and our hunters, whom you can see that they are already older gentlemen, have no overgrowth, nor will they be able to do what we are imposing on them today, I guarantee you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u286	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u287	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think it's a shame that we haven't voted on this before at, I don't know, the October session. Given that I was the proposer for the vote to be postponed, I believe that this proposal was a good one, because there were still a number of coordinations needed to, I am sure, come to the result we are looking for today. I am sure that good coexistence and good work are actually necessary to preserve nature. We need both good farmers, land owners and good hunting organisations. This is, in my opinion, a condition that cohabitation is in nature and that this nature will be preserved by all craftsmen. I will therefore vote in favour of this amendment, which is ready, and I am sure that we will then also resolve Article 7 in this way, as is the decision of the Constitutional Court and finally adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u288	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u289	Thank you very much, distinguished president, colleagues and colleagues! This time, too, we will support this amendment of the Social Democrats simply because, at the last autumn session around this point, we have already expressed our position, our opinions on the hunting relationship, on the hunting families, and not least the mission that all the hunting families, at least those I know well, are carrying out, is good for the benefit of the game, in my deep conviction, for the preservation of nature. And it is only right that we allow them to do so in the future. There is always a consensus between landowners, hunters, and the congregation. So far, this evidence has been that they found themselves at these points where the damage may have been such and different. I also understand otherwise, but the landowners may not be most pleased with everything, but to the satisfaction of this mission they have, we will allow them with this amendment and with this law, and I believe that the ministry will also, as soon as possible, reiterate, call concessions and allow hunters to continue to manage this if they have been doing it now for 60 or more years, and to carry out the next 60 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u290	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u291	I will say again, even the views of the farmer living from the land they are farming, we have put them in an unequal position in Croatia compared to the farms in Austria, Italy, and in Germany, we have excluded them from this law, not one comment has been taken into account by farmers and NGOs. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber has 172,000 members so far, and it has also rejected such laws or amendments. The farmers' union and other societies, not to mention them, we didn't pay attention to anyone, and I don't think it's right to exclude them from this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u292	Thank you. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u293	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. In fact, I must express a rather different opinion from most today, which has come forward and, of course, I do not want to blow into the same horn with the majority. I will not participate in the adoption and supplementation of the Law on Fisheries, nor can I participate in the vote, because hunting in general and also killing animals is not supported in particular if this is related to and also intended in some way for fun and play. In doing so, I must say that I am deeply saddened by listening to the owners' representatives in particular. Let's say yesterday, too, in previous public talks, when they talk mainly about their rights, they talk mainly about money, and they talk mainly about profit. And they're not interested in animals, and I haven't heard a word about animals, just how much money they're going to get. And blood money. What did they give and where did this right come from to those animals that live wildly, in fact, they are wild animals in nature. Now they're on their land, tomorrow they'll be on second. What they have given and what their contribution is to possessing these animals, especially for profit. In doing so, I would like to say that hunters, however, have to admit that they have given these animals something to do for animals to do a lot of volunteer hours, not least to care for a lot of things, and, of course, in this sense, I am even closer to being dominated by the majority, although, as I said, it seems to me, killing is only worth considering and it would be sad if there were no one in this House who would also open and say it. That is why I will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u294	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I know it's the end of the week and you're tired, but a little more peace would have to come to an end. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u295	Thank you very much. There was a lot of talk about the survival of the Slovenian farmer. Slovenian hunters and farmers are good partners, and I must say we have good cooperation. Mountain goats' farms at the top of 200, 300 meters won't save, because Slovenian legislation is such that even the calf that he has in his barn can't slaughter and eat at home. As far as the hunting organisation is concerned, Slovenian hunters do more than 660 each year. Will you guarantee, Mr. President, a little more discipline, does it sound bad? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u296	Mr. Saiovic, even when you speak, I can't calm you down. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u297	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u298	And a little more patience, everyone. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u299	We have 660,000 working hours per year for Slovenian hunters. If they were paid for only five euros as students, it would amount to over 3 million and 330 thousand euros. Those who are interested in profit and profit alone do not work every spring to pull old bodywork from ditches, collect cans, remove old tires, or anything else. Today, hunters are primarily environmentalists, and only then does hunting and shooting come about. It took about 2 decades for a cult of trophies from Slovenian hunting to withdraw and, interestingly, yesterday I heard one of Slovenia's eminent lawyers talking about ruins on the wall and similar matters, of course, we were the first Slovenian hunters to decide in Europe that a large number of birds of singers, useful birds and even destroyers had been shot for a long, long time. Other things are important to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u300	Thank you. Is it still an interest? I'm reopening the application. Please report to anyone who wishes to explain your vote. Mrs. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nothing prevents landowners from being members of hunting families, hunters in the way we talk about these days. At the same time, there are already many owners, or rivers, and they write to farmers of hunting families, and they can do everything that hunters can do. In order to make a profit or whatever we call it from a hunting activity to save one or another farm, it seems to me that it is unfounded and that way we will not save farms. At least I come from an environment where the greater problem is damage after the game and we will see in the following amendments how we will or will determine when we will try to solve this problem to the end and then care will be shown for those who are actually affected. And just one more thing. The current arrangements or, if these amendments are to be adopted into the current regime, the visa of those who speak of the absolute right of landowners is much more cultural in the current system than in leaving the absolute right to hunt landowners or something like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u302	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I myself will support the amendments that preserve the concession of hunting families to manage, this is sustainable management of the game. I am sure that the role of hunting families is not limited only to the sustainable management of game, but the content of their work, at least as I know it, is significantly broader. I myself have had the opportunity, including in some professional areas, to cooperate with various institutions. We have talked about the symbiosis of life and living space, it is a savage, a forest and a wider landscape, and I must say that I have had the opportunity to meet many professionally highly qualified people, so I think it is reasonable and necessary that, in the framework of sustainable or sustainable management, not only with savagery, but with the environment, the forest in the broadest sense, which has more functions, we should maintain this knowledge to recognize the role of the hunting families that have so far, and help to upgrade this behaviour. And with the upgrade of this behavior, I am confident that a good relationship between their owners and hunters in individual hunting families will be strengthened. At least in the environment in which I live, this relationship between owners and hunters is actually regulated at a very high level. The common concern for this wealth, which I believe is also public wealth, is, of course, our decision to further encourage such cooperation and to ensure that only in the short term interests of the wild and the value of this game do not cause too much damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u304	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u305	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment and also the law. By wanting to join one of the previous interpreters of my own view of this law or of the amendment, that our law of hunting may be truly a fugitive in Europe, but I am therefore happy and proud, because this unique law, like the unique forest law until denationalisation, has ensured that, under the hunting law, our hunters have made sure that we have the richest fauna in and outside our forests. That we have beasts that almost no country in Europe has: rice, wolves, bears, and wild cats, probably something else I don't know about. And that these hunters care to keep the stock wild, that the relationship between looters and the herbivores is a true relationship. To ensure that sick animals do not carry disease on. To ensure that forests are rich, not only with plants, but also with animals. It would also be similar with forests if denationalisation did not ensure that the new owners, as they now want to exterminate the wild forests, were also uprooted and destroyed by forests. So that to those whom we have praised, in our forests, in the past, we can no longer boast as much as we once did. Unfortunately, things are going this way, and I think it's only right that we let hunting families, hunting organisations, manage the fauna in the woods, so that we can leave something for our descendants, too, so that we can [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u306	Thank you. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u307	First of all, a nice greeting to the representatives of the hunting society and, at the beginning, a sincere congratulations. This is obviously one of the best lobby organizations in Slovenia. As far as the law is concerned, you have managed to abuse virtually all political groups, except New Slovenia. However, it is not about resisting the principle, but we believe that it is fair to want to live and to develop Slovenia in a sustainable manner, as we say, that there is an urgent relationship between man and nature. And the man in this case, surely, that first man concerned with hunting is certainly the owner of the land. That is why in this case - I do not hope to offend you, of course, because in fact you are the only armed civilian group in Slovenia if I make a little joke, but I would still appeal to you to try to reach this agreement with the owners only in some way. I don't think it's right and we can't expect co-existence if the owners have failed to reach a compromise. And our position therefore opposes this amendment and also such an amendment, even from this point of view, we are a member of the European Union, and I think it is right that we respect certain standards in terms of property that have been violated, even with the constructive approach of hunters, but I still think that for the benefit of owners, nature, animals. The only relationship is the right approach. That's why I'm calling on you to try and find agreement with the landowners. Until then, unfortunately, we can't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u308	Thank you. Mr. Prevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear, distinguished guests on the balcony, respected colleagues and colleagues! I will myself, like my fellow Members from the People's Party, support this amendment for a purely simple reason, because I want the hunting families to continue to manage the game of our forests, because they have proved by their work so far that they are worthy of it. The very activity and operation of hunting families I know most well as the mayor and, finally, in my congregation, where there are three hunting families, I also work extremely well with them. Given the good knowledge of their work, I am convinced that their mission is the right one, that is to preserve nature. As for cooperation with landowners, with us, this is well - arranged in our congregation. Last but not least, landowners, who are also many in hunting families, will most often agree without problems with hunting families either when it comes to compensation arising on agricultural land or if it comes to any other problem that arises at this level. And I'm sure that's the way it is elsewhere in other regions. Of course, I wish, as has already been said, that the Government will grant the concession as soon as possible so that these matters will be settled as possible. And once again, hunting families are the ones who should continue to manage our game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u310	Thank you. Mr Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u311	Thank you very much. For a very short time, I'm just going to confirm that I'm going to support this amendment. I would also apologize to Mr President, who himself admitted that he had proposed this vote delay, but I am pleased to hear that, because obviously things are going better. Colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party have decided to support this, as well as the words of colleague Sok are different from at first reading. At that time, he compared hunters to farmers to all doing the same thing, and he did it today, by adding that last time he added that hunters were on the balcony because they had time. So it's getting better, too. However, the words spoken by a colleague of Flowers point only to the fact that she is not a hunter's companion, but that hunting is more accompanied from the other side, because if she were more in contact with them, she would also realize that there are many more hunters who go hunting with or without a camera, to take care of what they are, environmentalists.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u312	There's no replica. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members, for 59, for 10. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. This makes the amendment number two irrelevant. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the LDS and Really to Article 7. We vote or forgive, on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u313	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Secretary! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will vote in favour of the amendment, not because of the content, but because of the possibility of introducing an amendment for the third reading, because we are convinced that the content of this Article 7 needs to be corrected. I would like to point out that the Slovenian Democrats voted in favour of the Wildlife and Hunting Act four years ago to advocate this concept of hunting, that all of us have taken part in the award of concessions and thus in the implementation of the law, that we strongly oppose any privatisation of hunting and the introduction of private hunting grounds, because we are convinced that this means, indirectly, also the beginning of the closure of free entry into our forests and thereby the destruction of this multifunctional role of forests, which is one of the extremely important functions of as many as two thirds of Slovenia. However, we are sure that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Wildlife and Hunting Act should also be adopted in order to eliminate the constitutional inconsistencies found, so that it is possible to tender and grant concessions. However, we are convinced that it is necessary to determine who will take precedence over the second award of concessions, taking into account the Constitutional Court's recommendation. However, it should be avoided that from the so-called section of the Ecological Forum of the Hunting Union of Slovenia, which referred to landowners and local hunters on the petition as feudalists and their involvement in hunting families, the introduction of feudalism in the field of hunting in order to come and take over management of Slovenian hunting grounds at any time. We are convinced that it is necessary to write clearly that local hunters, hunters who own land, have the advantage of awarding concessions because only these hunting families, which have been so formed in centuries of history, have proved that they know and can properly manage forests. We are therefore convinced that the concessionaires to date need to be given a second priority. In order not to accidentally take any so-called professional forum into the management of any of the hunting grounds [[...]] [[microphone turned off]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u314	Thank you. Since several deadlines have been raised, I am also opening an application on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u315	Thank you for your word. If the text of Article 26 remains the same as that currently laid down in the law in force, it means that the priority in granting the concession is that of the hunting family whose majority of the members are landowners. Which means that, in essence, this law allows for the speculative establishment of a large number of hunting families, because it is necessary to have three members in order to establish a hunting family and if these landowners have an absolute advantage in granting a concession. That is why the amendment tabled by the LDS is better because it actually speaks of the preference of those who, of course, are properly masters of hunting, meeting the conditions and, of course, does indeed exercise a public interest in wildlife management, but not of a narrow market interest, because it could only be the current one, I would say, a quick hunt from hunting and thus the destruction of natural duties in nature. In this respect, the LDS amendment is more acceptable, better than the current text of the law. However, as it will continue to be drafted, the foretold amendment to this article is of course difficult to assess, but I suggest that the text remains primarily related to expertise and, above all, to work for the public benefit, because savages and nature, I think, however, to a large extent and above all, the public benefit of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u316	Thank you. Mr Posedel.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u317	Thank you very much. I am pleased to be able to say, on behalf of the Group of Members, that this amendment will be supported by us and the LDS. I am also pleased with the words spoken by Comrade Sušnik to support this and that we will then jointly prepare a coordinated proposal for the third reading, and I am counting on the agricultural ministry to be active in this regard, given that the former Minister of the Hunting Union has invited the Lovsko Association to participate, to appoint the entire committee, but the meeting was one, or three, for the first time, for the last time and never again. I expect that this cooperation will be better in this period until the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u318	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u319	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In the parliamentary group, I, too, will personally support the amendment to Article 7, precisely because we will allow this article to be amended in the third reading, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is also our primary task. We will fully support this amendment in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u320	Thank you. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 9. (The vote was 62.)(against 9.) I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. In Article 9, we have three amendments. First, I shall put to the vote an amendment under Article 9 of Article 1 of the Group of Social Democrats. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 shall become irrelevant. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Weber would like to explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u321	Thank you for your word. In short, I wanted to say that the very important issue has been resolved by this amendment regarding relations with landowners, because the amendment speaks of the fact that the basis for the calculation of the concession fee is reduced by the compensation paid for the damage to game. And that's important. And this attitude towards the owners is important right through the fact that the damage to the game is being settled. And if this is included in the basis for the calculation of the concession fee, of course hunters will be interested in paying these damages, otherwise they will have to pay a concession fee which will divide something into a country, something into a municipality, which in fact makes no real sense. By suggesting that this amendment be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-01-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u322	Thank you. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 32 to 42 votes in favour. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendment under number two, LDS and Zares, to the same article. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 32 votes against 42. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I am putting to the vote an amendment under number three, the Group of Social Democrats, to the same article. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 35 votes against 36. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to Article 14 – I am voting on the amendment of the LDS and Res to Article 14. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendment of Article 18 of the Social Democrats' Group. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 31 votes against 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of SDS, SLS and DeSUS to Article 24. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, for whom 49 votes against 5. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the proposed amendment has been adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 6, 7 and 24 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? Yeah. That is why we will continue this point on Wednesday, following the rest of the points. I interrupt the agenda item, and I also interrupt the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which we will continue on Tuesday, 5 February at 9 a.m. Thank you for your time and a nice weekend.
