ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 38th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Mr Anton Anderlich, Roberto Battelli, Aurelio Juri, Drago Koren, Milan Petek, Alojz Sok and Mag. Janez Petty Officer by 2 p.m. I invited the President of the Republic, Dr Danil Türk, to the 30th item, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the 1st item of the agenda, the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda and the representatives of the Council to the 31st item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 38th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 11 April 2008. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of proposals for the withdrawal of items from the agenda. The Lipa Group proposes to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law on restrictions and prohibitions for public function holders, the second dealing. You received a motion for withdrawal by letter dated 13 April 2008. Would you like a representative of the motions for withdrawal? Here you go, Mrs. Žgajner Tavš, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and those who accompany us at this early hour. The proposal for withdrawal is of a very weighty substantive nature. The fact is that the so-called Anti-Corruption Act, prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or by the Ministry of the Interior, is a law that is not intersectorally coordinated. More. As we can read from the letter received last week by the Bank of Slovenia, it is a law that should be coordinated in advance even with the European Central Bank, as it is one of the commitments made by the Member States of the European Union to consult in advance on those laws that touch individual national banks within the framework of the European Community on the basis of the 1998 Decision. The Bank of Slovenia clearly recalls that if this law is to be adopted in the form proposed and beyond this consultation within the framework of the European Central Bank, it is, I will say, a law that will not be taken into account by the European Community, because it is an infringement, they point out to the Bank of Slovenia. And if you'll just let me have a word or two. In the Lipa Group of Members, we have previously warned the president of the labour force that this is a major change in the anti-corruption issue in our country. So radically root out the changes that even contrary to this National Assembly, the United Nations Convention on the Prevention of Corruption is ratified. We fought for three years, we fought for the ratification of this international instrument. Today we are adopting a law that abolishes an independent institute, a commission to prevent corruption, which is contrary to a document that we ratified three years ago, I think three months ago. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a poor journey to this country or to this government, which boasts at the great mouth, how much it wants to prevent corruption from occurring in our country. Once again, I ask that, not only because of the warnings of the Bank of Slovenia or of the European Central Bank, think about what you are doing, what is not in our country's best interests, but it is even less in favour of citizens and citizens who are finally faced with corruption in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u3	Thank you. Would you like a word from the government? Mag. Roman Rep, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u4	Thank you. In view of the above, it must be made clear that this law does not affect the competence or work of the Bank of Slovenia in any segment. What has been stated is absolutely not true. The law only lays down the framework or ethical standards of law in a form that ensures transparency and a clear review of the functioning of officials. This law affects or we can control only the assets of the bank’s officials and we do not just go into business as such. The law in a transparent and clear way ensures the supervision of the conduct or functioning of officials in this segment and does not go down, I say again, does not go into the work of the bank as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u5	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I see only one hand, Mr Pece, on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u6	Thank you very much. On Friday, I pointed out a letter from the Bank of Slovenia, signed by the Governor, Mr Mark Kranjc. Today, the representative of the Government claimed that the content of that letter was absolutely not true. From this point of view, I must first express my surprise at how the Secretary of State may lie to the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, who in his letter speaks something quite different. It points out that, within the framework of the legislative proposal itself, the procedures so far run counter to our country's commitments to the European Union, our countries to the Bank of Slovenia and, finally, what is most important, at least in the context of the thinking of the Lip Group, is the commitment to our citizens and citizens. The fact is that the inflationary aspirations of corruption, customerism and, last but not least, of the places of money with a proposal, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying to enforce in the legislative authorities, mean only one - more corruption, more theft and more customerism. From this title, we also ask, on behalf of the Lipa Group, that the National Assembly does not agree with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. Kovacic, on behalf of the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Contrary to the motioner, we do not agree to withdraw this item from the agenda in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group because we believe that this is a process that has been going on for quite some time. When the Act on the Incompatibilities of Functions, which replaced the previous Anti-Corruption Act, was passed in the National Assembly and then passed this Act on the irreconcilability of functions to the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court of this Act did not repeal it and only imposed on the National Assembly to amend several articles. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court has instructed the National Assembly on how to correct this law in those certain provisions, we are, of course, in the National Assembly, at the initiative that we respect the instruction of the Constitutional Court and that the law, which is being dealt with or which has been sent to the National Assembly for admission, we accept that we are therefore considering it at this meeting and that we are also adopting it in accordance with the procedure. That is why we will be in the Slovenian Democratic Party against this point withdrawing from the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u9	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the withdrawal proposal. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We decide on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. The vote on withdrawal is under way. There are 57 Members and Members present. 20 votes in favour. Against 34. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal is not accepted. The Group of Social Democrats proposes to withdraw from the agenda the proposal of the Second Treatment Penal Code. You received a motion for withdrawal by letter dated 16 April 2008. Would you like a representative of the motioner to withdraw? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Run, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats has done everything to convince the Government, the ruling coalition, of the majority in the National Assembly that it is unacceptable to adopt a criminal code in a procedure that is not appropriate to deal with such an important act. In doing so, she referred to a truly divided profession, which, in one part, smaller in our behaviour, supports the proposal, has largely significant comments. It referred to a public presentation of opinions which showed, irrespective of how a person counts, the number of support or opposition, that there are significant differences in terms of the need for a new criminal code at all and the rationale for some of its proposals. She referred to the fact that very rarely, the Government's legislative service in drafting the proposal felt that it was not appropriate to propose a law in such content to the Government and later to the National Assembly. It referred to the opinion of our Legislative and Legal Service, which in many areas pointed out the non-conformity, non-conformity of the law, to unclear solutions, to the contradictions that the proposals bring. In the end, it also referred to some serious warnings from important judicial officials that there was no force to adopt criminal law after such a procedure because it would cause more problems than would help solve the problems that existed. We are convinced that it is now the last time that the ruling coalition realizes that such an important law is not adopted after such an unacceptable procedure and that it is still possible for the Government, the Ministry of Justice, to organise an interview between advocates and opponents of the law in the field of expertise and see whether there is any possibility of harmonising fundamental views. This does not mean that we and the profession in any way oppose every solution. Especially not in the special part of the law. In general, however, most proposals are unnecessary and unacceptable. I am finally counting on the State Assembly to be influenced by the President of the State's appeal that this law should not be dealt with in an unacceptable manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u11	Thank you. Would you like a word from the government, Mr. Marolt, Secretary of State? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With regard to the law in question, if you don't mind, I'd like to explain one more thing. The fact is that there was a public debate on the law in question. It lasted since September last year, so it was more than enough time. A public presentation of the opinions of the National Assembly was made. A general debate has also been held in this National Assembly. In this regard, I must stress in particular that a number of comments have been adopted after the public debate and also after the public presentation of the opinions, and a number of proposals for an amendment to this new, modern criminal code have been adopted. The fact is that the Government has therefore listened to these professional arguments. The fact is also that this law was prepared by an expert group, which was composed of both the regular professor of criminal law at the Faculty of Law of the University of Ljubljana and then the professor at the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor and the Supreme Judge of the Councilman. So from the profession itself, so theoretical, if we can call it, as well as practical, that is, from the types of justice. That is why we believe and believe that this is a modern European criminal code that is comparable to modern criminal laws in other Member States of the European Union. It is also true that many years before this public debate there have been many dedications, many educations, a number of exchanges of opinions at many criminal law schools, i.e. schools organised for judges, judicial schools, numerous legal meetings where prominent legal experts are meeting, as well as at many educations of prosecutors and others involved. We therefore propose that the National Assembly adopt the Code as soon as possible, as it is envisaged to enter into force on 1 November this year. Once this law is adopted, it is necessary to organise and prepare intensively judges, prosecutors, police officers and others involved in criminal proceedings in order to prepare themselves intensively and qualitatively for the implementation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u13	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I'm opening the application. Mrs. Shirca, please. On behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u14	It makes sense to try again to prevent violence or rape that takes place against a court or against criminal law in the way that the Government prepares. It is not true that this was a coordinated dialogue. Just the opposite. This dialogue has had short contacts, so to speak, in all public debates. True, it was more or less a monologue. It's a rape of criminal law. It's a marriage that's actually going to kill after meals. But the worst part is that it will increase the backlog. And you say yourself that you accept it precisely because the judicial backlogs will be shorter. If there is no consensus on such important and sensitive legislation as criminal legislation, which should be dealt with by laboratory tenderness, if it is a law that most professions do not accept in Slovenia, then it is extremely inappropriate for us to deal with it in this way and to impose it. If it comes into force, as you say, on November 1st, then there is a fact, we can ensure today and we will make the bill very soon to be a dead law, which, as I say, will kill the situation we are in. There was no consensus. The Ombudsman suggested that her warning should be that in Slovenia legislation should be adopted in such a way that professional and civil society is at least partially heard. This is actually a law with which only authors who have written more or less agree. And if there's anything alarming, then it's the fact that we're taking it through violent procedures. We will therefore join and oppose the treatment as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Unlike those who propose to withdraw this item from the agenda of the Slovenian Party's Parliamentary Group, we also oppose withdrawal this time, since we consider it to be a code that is prepared after 14 years, since the current criminal code has been adopted. As soon as this penal code was adopted, however, it was known that it was a transitional law that would have to be amended and a new modern law would be drawn up. A number of expert discussions have taken place since the adoption of the current Code on how to prepare a new modern code comparable to that of the EU countries in particular. The first text of this Code, which we have today on the agenda, has been published in public since September 2007 and has since taken place on this topic many expert discussions. As previously stated by the representative of the Government, a public presentation of the opinions was also organised in the National Assembly. In fact, this is a highly professionally subversive procedure and it is by no means possible to agree with the assessment made by the proposer that this is an unacceptable procedure. This is a procedure which is common and also allows and allows for a very broad debate. This fact is that the profession is not uniform in its view of this marriage, but it is not unusual. Practically every marriage does. Very rarely, the profession would be completely unified, but it is always a matter of different opinions within the profession. However, the policy issue is to take the expert opinion into account, one way or another, depending on how many of these different professional alternative opinions there are. It is also interesting that my predecessor, who has tabled a proposal for a amendment to the Penal Code, which, inter alia, tried to legislate the offence of hostile speech against those who are impatiently speaking against pedophiles, is now, in all respects, an expertly prepared proposal, and this proposal to address this issue in this law also opposes it. As we say, we will support the process to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, I welcome you! Dear representatives of the government, welcome you as well! When we decide whether to withdraw point 9, this is a consideration of the Proposal for a Penal Code, of course, it is not a substantive debate on the proposal for a law. I have carefully read the explanation of the applicants, colleagues from the Social Democrats, who, inter alia, say, formally supplemented the proposal of the Penal Code does indeed qualify for the inclusion of the item on the agenda of the April meeting of the National Assembly, but the way in which these conditions have been met remains commercially controversial; there is no indication which articles of the Rules of Procedure would be violated in this hearing. So we claim that the formally supplemented proposal of the Penal Code really fulfils the conditions for this proposal to be addressed at the April session. It is perfectly normal for those who disagree with the solutions not to support the proposal. But those who think that the proposal is a good solution, and those who will certainly support this law will also. The New Slovenia Group will not vote in favour of withdrawing the 9th item from the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u19	Thank you. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I declare that, of course, we support the withdrawal of this bill from the agenda. Mr. Horvath, by the way, what's commercially controversial. It is business disputed that an extraordinary meeting is convened for the law, which is otherwise given into regular procedure. This is certainly a very business dispute. Of course, there are other reasons why such a law, such as the Penal Code, is invoked and dealt with in this way. We believe that this law must be removed from the agenda and, at least in this way, ensure at least a little credibility of the National Assembly in the adoption of such an important law, which has not been reached by a fundamental consensus, which would necessarily be necessary both in the professional public, both in civil society and in those circles which will also apply it, is said in the associations of judges, prosecutors and lawyers. The Ombudsman also warned that such a law could not be adopted in such a way that some of the broadest social consensus on the content of the proposed amendments could not be reached. This was also pointed out by the President of the State, and I think the National Assembly should listen to such warnings. Let me mention that the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights has just raised the question of whether, for example, life imprisonment is even meaningful and acceptable for Europe, and in that appeal for debate, he specifically stressed that there are four countries in Europe that do not have a life sentence, such as: Spain, Portugal, Norway and Slovenia. Obviously, the Commissioner was not aware that Slovenia would be off this list at any time. Also, the State Secretary's remarks that a broad and in-depth public debate has been conducted on this law do not hold, certainly do not hold. Let me also illustrate how the debate so far took place in the National Assembly on this bill. Some 130 amendments were tabled at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Justice and Public Administration. And on these 130 amendments, the coalition voted in such a way that it spent about 1 minute on one amendment. Can you think of how deeply ingrained [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And how professional was this discussion?Oh, my God! [[...]] Of course, we demand, propose and ask fellow Members to vote in favour of withdrawing this law from the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Scholch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u22	Thank you very much. We have also given a number of substantive and procedural reasons in the Liberal Democracy Club that this law is not being dealt with in the way it is now being dealt with in the National Assembly. But it was all "bob against the wall." Maybe she's a colleague of Lavtizar's; don't mind me; she was even generous about the time she attributed to the coalition when individual amendments were accepted or rejected. They spent significantly less than a minute on different proposals. Be with those they agreed with, or with those who refused. But it's not that important. Criminal policy, according to my opinion, and this opinion is shared by many others, cannot be the subject of such or a different majority in the National Assembly. It is therefore understandable that any amendment to the Penal Code and other laws that normally follow this has long been prepared to weigh the various consequences and to try to obtain consensus not only in Parliament but also substantially broader. Finally, criminal policy is not only about justice and the authorities that support it, it is about many people, and ultimately criminal policy is one of those instruments that is supposed to put an end to bad things. Here, when virtually a large majority of the people who share justice, the vast majority of the people who monitor the effects of this do not agree, this is condemned to failure. Mr Marolt said that a large number of people were engaged in this, that there were many debates. Yes, but with each debate, the dispute over solutions deepened, not diminishing. This is the content or experience of these discussions in the National Assembly, in colleges and in the public. With each day, the number of people who opposed it grew, not shrinking. From this point of view, the Ministry takes this as a formal obligation to discuss this, with the other, with the third, and finally, with what we know of its time, that it has three honest ones at its disposal, it has been said at times, experts who advocate it, and everyone else is obviously [[...]] [[Turn it off.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u23	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the withdrawal proposal. Would you like a further explanation as a proponent? Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I believe that so many half-truths have been said by the Secretary of State and also by the coalition Members that it is right to draw your attention to these half-truths in order to make a better decision. From September onward, Mr Marolt argued that a public debate was under way. What is the point of public debate? To confront each other with arguments and to objectively identify where the differences are and where the common solutions are. There wasn't any of it. The public debate was a message from the Ministry and three respected and respected lawyers to prepare the law and its content. Everything else, written in professional publications, expressed in a public presentation of opinions, was just something that did not concern the government. For them, it was enough that the three prominent lawyers plus the employees of the Ministry thought that the law was a good one. That's why it's half-truth that shows you to take it the way it used to be. No public debate, which does not have to face different arguments and results, makes full sense. Second. The government boasts that many amendments have been adopted. First of all, let me say that the Government has tabled 125 amendments on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service; what is not much to be commended. The 380th Articles of the Penal Code have had almost a third of the addition, and I would not in any way boast on behalf of the Government, because this means that the law is poorly prepared. And that's exactly what he is. On the other hand, what is equally or even more important, only less than 10% of these amendments are linked to the general part of the penal code and none of these amendments concern the basic comments formulated by the Legislative and Legal Service. Most amendments concern a particular part that is much less or in many ways indisputable. And most of it concerns editorial supplementation. How editorial supplements work, we all know. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, they shall be prepared by the proposer and signed by the Heads of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. This was also the case here, and it is therefore right to say that no specific contribution has been made by the National Assembly, except the Legal and Legal Service, which warned of this. And by doing so, Mr. Marolt, it does not seem particularly praiseworthy. The three proposers who were in charge of drafting a bill or with which an appropriate contract was concluded to prepare this law under the contract are not all criminal proceedings in Slovenia, and at the very least it would be appropriate to listen to the opinions of others. In particular, in the positions of some coalition colleagues, attempts have been made to justify why this law is urgently needed. My emphasis is on experiments, because only general phrases have emerged from this, as did the proponents, because, in the view of this law, all the other legal professions, except the three signatories, are already European today, those additions that are necessary would be possible through amendments and additions in one normal procedure, not as proposed. Finally, how and what the criminal law and also the profession thinks, the government and the Minister of Justice also experienced on the day of law school. I am informed, I believe, not one, of many, that the President of the country was applauded when he warned that the National Assembly should consider the procedure for the adoption of law. And two more. What is the unusual procedure? A colleague of Darja said that the law adopted following a regular procedure is not usually to be placed at an emergency meeting of the parent working body within the deadlines which prevented any serious discussion since the views of the ZPS were put on the bench and were later amended. Maybe for the government coalition it's a normal procedure, I'm sure it's not for the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u25	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a motion for withdrawal. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, for whom 22 votes against 37. (For the vote was 22. )(against 37.) I note that the proposal is not adopted. With regard to the enlargement of the agenda, I should like to inform you that the Lipa Group submitted on Friday 18 April 2008 a proposal for an extension of the agenda of the 38th meeting of the State Council for the Treatment of Material Status of Relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. The proposal for enlargement is contrary to the second paragraph of Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, so the assembly on the proposal of the Lip Group of Ambassadors for the enlargement of the agenda will not decide. That is why we are moving on to setting the agenda for today's meeting, and I propose that it be set a agenda for today's meeting, as you have received by reference. We're voting. 61 Members and Members attended, 39 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the agenda of the 38th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving to 2. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on restrictions and prohibitions for holders of public functions within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Rap, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! In recent discussions, we have heard many times that this law threatens prevention or the fight against corruption, thus weakening the system in the country, so that this fight cannot continue and so on. In the introduction, I would like to reiterate once again that we have the appropriate institutions and regulations to combat corruption in this country. I mean the police and the prosecution. This law lays down the framework or ethical rules for the conduct of officials or, in other words, lays down the rules of political hygiene. Of course, the law clearly defines how officials should act in certain segments, I am thinking mainly of the declaration of property status, how to act in the case of gifts, how to act in the business ban or incompatibility segment. When registering the property status, when we look at the arrangements we have known so far, the property situation has been reported to the Commission, the Commission has had some review of the data, but there has been no concrete and effective approach in this area. This law gives a clear mandate to the Court of Auditors, it is said to the independent authority of that State that, in this area, it can not only monitor the assets of officials, but also in cases where it finds that this property situation is not in line with what would be expected or with the specific monthly benefits received by the official, it can also carry out serious financial control, audit, not only over the financial situation, but also over the actual assets of either the official or his immediate family members. I will not speculate whether someone does not want this kind of control, but in this segment the provisions of the law are completely clear and concrete and give some new segment in the area of registering property. About the incompatibilities. There has been a lot of debate in this direction that the law will scatter this control, this segment to different institutions in the country and that it will not be good for the situation to deteriorate. With regard to incompatibility, it is necessary to know clearly that the law gives this role to the authority responsible for appointing the official. Finally, the official is responsible for these segments and these authorities also have the best specific information or information on how they can decide in a particular state. It is very difficult for me to imagine that a number of officials who carry out their functions throughout Slovenia would be decided by an organ from Ljubljana, which is omnipotent and has an overview of the situation and the situation in the country. Speaking of incompatibilities, it must be made clear that this is not a segment that would have been required in the past by this regulation, as we know it today, I do not know what kind of engagement or that it would have been matters that are often dealt with. If we look at the Commission's concrete report, we can see that in 2006, if I am not mistaken, there have been five cases where the Commission has decided on these issues or issued about 6 or 10 different opinions in this area. It is said that all that fear that these electoral commissions or bodies responsible for the appointment of an official will be overburdened by this segment of work and that they will not be able to manage this concept will not hold up. To conclude, allow me once again to say that the law following this clear political hygiene also follows the Constitutional Court's decision. This also solves the problem of the division of power. With the Court of Auditors, on the one hand, and with the authorities mentioned above, we make this balance clear, and I am sure that, as such, the law will contribute significantly to the clearer and transparent functioning of officials in this segment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u27	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Srečk Hwauc, Vice-President of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice is at its 43rd session. 4. 2008 as a parent labour body, he considered the proposal for a law on restrictions and prohibitions on public function holders submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and reception. In accordance with Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the 36th meeting of the National Assembly was held. 2. A general debate was held on the proposal for a law. Following the conclusion of the general discussion, the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS, NSI and SLS Members' Groups and the Zares Group of Members. In the introduction, an additional representative of the applicant explained the individual solutions to the law. However, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service gave an additional oral explanation for the written opinion of this service. She stressed that some comments were taken into account in the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups, but that some comments should be further considered. The representative of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia presented the position of this body on the draft law. According to their assessment, the proposal is without prejudice to its independence, as it only confers certain new tasks on it. In the Court of Auditors, it is estimated that these new tasks do not constitute demanding tasks and are not too professional a challenge, so the Court will be able to carry them out smoothly, in particular if all necessary resources and appropriate personnel are transferred to it. Members of the Committee and others present in the debate on individual articles discussed mainly the amendments of the Zares Group, which have a thorough impact on the basic concept of the law, as they reintroduce the anti-corruption commission as the central anti-corruption body. The coalition's representatives, however, agreed with the basic solutions of the law, stressing in particular that these amendments were intended to follow the Constitutional Court's decision. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has also considered the amendments tabled and has not adopted the amendments of the Zares Group of Members and has adopted the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SLS to Articles 5, 10, 17, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 26. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u29	Thank you. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 18.4.2008. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the Zares Group. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 5. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. I must undoubtedly express my support for the proposed amendment under this Article. The amendment well sums up the situation in this area today, it is said that those activities which a professional official can perform for one fifth of his working time are clearly defined. So it's educational, scientific, research, artistic, cultural, sports, publicity and so on. This is a similar arrangement to that of the regime, today under the Anti-Corruption of Corruption Act. In this context, I must say that, on several occasions, we have heard from the Secretary of State the phrase 'political hygiene'. However, I wonder whether political hygiene is also the behaviour of the last Prime Minister of the Government, who signed the ethical code of the Government, but does not follow the Court of Auditors' instructions. Under this law, this same Government gives almost all powers to the Court of Auditors [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u31	Ms. Žginer Tavš, Article 5 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u32	also in relation to the supervision of officials. [[...]] Excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u33	Article 5 and the amendment are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u34	Yes, but also this amendment, you know, is largely linked to political hygiene, to the conduct of professional officials and especially those who will be responsible and who will decide which activities a professional official can perform. I say that, on the basis of a government proposal for a law, these activities are not clearly defined. If the law lacks a clear definition, then we give ourselves a very wide range of decisions. And if we give ourselves too wide a chance in the fight against corruption, too wide a field, then what can happen quickly to conflict of interest or to allow the existence of corruption. And I say that the law drafted by the Government will not be sufficiently followed by the United Nations Convention, which clearly speaks of prevention in the field of corruption. It is true that in our country we have law enforcement authorities, but with law enforcement agencies that have proved to be very ineffective in the past, we do not solve the issue of prevention in the field of combating corruption. The powers or role of the Commission to prevent corruption are significantly broader than the sole and sole control of officials, or officials report their assets, or officials report gifts. I believe that you, Mr Secretary of State, have looked at the list of gifts, an obligation that all officials in the country had to fulfil. On this basis, I can conclude that the political hygiene of all officials is insufficient or very poor. Once again, the amendment makes sense to support the fact that we clearly define which activities are permitted for professional officials, which they can carry out in accordance with or at the same time in their professional capacity.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u35	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 5? Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I think we're putting sand in people's eyes, "Quod hypocrites, non-hypocrites." If we look at us, Members of Parliament, and those Members who are mayors at the same time are doing a certain activity, doing something in a regular working relationship, something is going on, something is going through a contract, but they are doing it in a unitary work. Do they get one-third of their salary? No, they get half their wages. Here they even receive a salary when they meet at the same time as the National Assembly, see how many congregations there are when there are Members at the same time, because Members sit and take the lead on what they get a share of the money for, and here they get even a salary without any deductions, without everything. And especially in this area, if we want to be clean to other professions, we should also clean this shed in our house and once come to the adoption of such legislation, which would prohibit the payment of even a Member's salary and half the county's salary for the same work. In doing so, we could be a little bit stricter on these limitations, and so I think what you proposed in Lipa, what was before - one check is good, but until we have one such control with us that we will once colleagues, who, at the same time when the meeting of the National Assembly, also lead the municipal councils and get no less wages here, until then, it seems to me, we can substantially support such an amendment without blushing.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I will support the amendment, although the content that we are discussing today is completely irrelevant under the amendments that have been tabled. And I think it is right, I hope that I can at least say a sentence to say that the purpose of the proposed law is much more than what we are going to discuss today. The aim of the Government is to prevent the monitoring of a corruption activity that is potentially possible and all is reduced only to whether individual officials report or not their revenues and the state thinks that it will be able to control on this basis many potential corruption options that are most certainly within the government and local communities where it is most at its disposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u39	Well, Mr. Potch, go back to the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u40	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u41	In time, please return to Article 5.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u42	I will, not in time, return immediately, Mr President, and say once again that the Anti-Corruption Act is much more important and broader than the content of the Restrictions and Prohibitions Act. There's nothing to be saved from this marriage. Even with this amendment, nothing is saved, and it is the mere duplicity of the National Assembly to try to regulate these things in this way. I will support the amendment because it shows at least a small amount of desire and will to have things that have been disputed, many times so far and, above all, at the beginning of each mandate, the Mandate-Electorial Commission has discussed them, it is only right to say that the meaning and problem of resolution and anti-corruption activities is much wider than that currently being addressed in this law. The government has decided that there is no corruption and that we do not need an authority to monitor, supervise, warn, ensure that appropriate decisions are taken in the relevant authorities. And it is right for the public to know that our government, the current government, the Janša government and the government coalition have decided to do so in contravention of the Convention and in contravention of international practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Unlike previous debaters, who have spent much of their time talking about something else, not the amendment that is now in the debate, I will only talk about the amendment. The proposed amendment speaks contrary to what was explained by the first debater, who said that this amendment brings the circle of beneficiaries closer to the possibility of carrying out another profitable activity. In addition to the activities that the official may carry out, that is, the gainful activities that the official may carry out, for which he obtains consent, the amendment also refers to a number of other activities where there is no need for consensus. Where there is agreement, the amendment shall be identical with this Article 5. In addition, the amendment introduces a number of new options without consensus, where it says that when it comes to teaching, scientific, research, artistic, cultural and sports, publicist, farm, property management and so on. So just the opposite of what was said. Even in the first part, when we speak of agreement, the amendment speaks about the commission, and we do not know which commission it should be. He's talking about the commission. It is not clear which commission. Thus, the amendment is inconsistent and cannot be supported for this reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Rezman. Excuse me, Mr. Rezman, Mrs. Zginer Tavsh wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me, Mr Kovacic, I believe that you know the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, if not, then this, I will say, is shameful for the National Assembly, that we have a member of the National Assembly Commission, which oversees the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. But if so, then I believe that you maliciously, maliciously manipulated my words earlier, because you wanted to give another plus to government law, which is bad because it rules out a wide field of preventive fight against corruption. This area covers the current law, the Anti-Corruption Act, including integrity, which, for example, does not take into account government law, the government law focuses solely on the supervision of officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Let me first speak a few words about the amendment, in the sense that the amendment as we understand it is discriminatory, so it cannot have the support some would like. Discriminatory to certain professions that are not favoured apriorously, as are some other professions. And since Auggie's barn was mentioned, and some of us know what it is, I'd say it's right that those who have brooms in their hands are cleaning out the barn of Auggie at the time and where it's talking about the barn of Auggie. When it comes to the incompatibilities of individual functions, there was an opportunity to support this incompatibility, some of which we supported, but not all of us, even the members of that party who compared us with the Temple of Auggie did not support the incompatibilities of the two functions mentioned. Let me tell the gentleman who talked about this, that the Members, as well as the mayors, measure themselves according to the work they do. And let me say that I know a number of members of the National Assembly who are not seen in Parliament and not in the congregations, but also receive a salary. So that we don't needlessly and gradually measure, as those who, at least I think, work more than the average Members. As far as the amendment is concerned, I say again that, unfortunately, we cannot support it - but we will support the later ones that are also proposed - because it is discriminatory and because, for example, I see no difference in why a farmer could do agricultural work and not his doctor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u49	Thank you. Since I see that there is still interest, I am opening applications for debate on Article 5 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! I believe that this second paragraph of Article 5 is quite correctly written because it actually puts everything under equal conditions, 20% of the other work, of course, in agreement with the employer. If the employer disagrees or does not just need it for 20%, this work will not actually happen. I'm talking about this amendment, which really doesn't put everyone in the same position. It is said that for someone then the restriction, of course by the Commission, which is not even clearly defined, as I understand it, is probably for those commissions referred to in Article 7. But that means that this commission is supposed to be in charge, and for some, no one at all. This does not seem right to me and this amendment does not lead to any additional quality in terms of control over the performance of certain tasks. I must also say that I am of the opinion that Article 7 is very well defined in this first paragraph, who exercises control over this and also on what is not yet specifically written. So I am of the opinion that the second paragraph of Article 5 is quite correctly written, and I will not support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I would really like to talk only about this amendment, because I myself have noticed that there has been a lot of talk about the meaning of the whole law. I will try to discuss this in the debate on further amendments, which, I must say, would be even more extensive if the business option did not close these options because some of the articles remained closed. However, as far as Article 5 is concerned, I must say that this is a system law and a system-wide regulation of one area, which, as we propose, has been regulated to a certain extent by special laws and is regulated in some way; we also know that Members have the opportunity to carry out additional activities in certain areas, such as science, teaching and so on; it has been somewhat misplaced. We're trying to frame this inadequacy somehow in systemic law. Let me remind you of the discussions that have taken place since some became sports officials and the question has been raised as to how this is regulated. It is true that certain areas, such as Members, already have their own laws, that other professional officials, government officials and so on, do not have them specially defined by law, and because we see this as a system law, we wanted to regulate these inconsistencies or everything covered by special laws. Other things could be said, the mayors were also mentioned, although we know that special laws are also regulated and that they could also be introduced here. As for Mr Kovacic, who said what commission it was. This is a committee that exists under the law we have. It looks like you've already abolished it, like the purpose of this marriage, but it's this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! The explanation of this Article states: it is appropriate to include educational, scientific, research, artistic, cultural, sports, publicity and so on among the exceptions allowed. At the same time, you were talking about prevention, how to act preventively. Now I am asked a question or a teaching, scientific, research, artistic, cultural, this activity, and there is no need for prevention. That's what they say, but there's no chance of corruption here. In all others, corruption is possible. Dear advocates of this amendment, you have been very discriminating. You have set different conditions, and you have already condemned one already in advance, who are engaged in certain professions, that they are prone to corruption and that prevention is not necessary. For example, I'm going to come up with two cases in the health field, and there's already a need for prevention, because you're so judging that there's a possibility of corruption, or another possible technical work, tooling. Why shouldn't tools be there or something like that? Or is there a priori of corruption, among what you listed, not? I ask you kindly, but what about the same conditions for all citizens. So if a professional officer does what you wrote here, it's all right, he can do what he shouldn't do. At the same time, you're talking about prevention. Very, I'll say what offensive and incriminating you to other professions or other activities. And that's incompatible, I'll say, with constitutional right, with what a person can deal with, and that you can condemn someone in advance, but there's no need to prevent them, and others need it. Because already, because he is engaged in some kind of occupation, some activity is already corrupt, corruption is envisaged. And because I don't explain other things, of course, I can't support such an amendment. Such thinking, however, gives me the strange feelings of the advocates of such an amendment that they can blame someone on average, while others are dragged outside the law. And there's nothing wrong with it. That is why I cannot support such an amendment, and even thinking only in the debate on this law convinces me that this proposal, which is before us, has a good basis, that it is probably on good assumptions and that I will therefore also support the law as such and not the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I certainly cannot support this amendment for many reasons. The first is certainly that it is discriminatory, it does not drink water, it does not belong here in this law, which I myself am not most sure is good, but about this second, later. It's simply that some jobs are thrown separately, not by others. Once again, the mayor and the Member of Parliament are at odds, and we hear so many times that everything is wrong. In each mandate of the National Assembly, this MEP and the mayor were also on the wallpaper and the majority decided how good and right it was. In the end, the electorate decides whether or not he wants to have a mayor of parliament, but we are constantly talking about this topic. I'm sure next time it'll come to the National Assembly again, whether this function is compatible or not. Let the parliamentarians decide whether or not it is. Voters already know what is good and what is not, and not that their heads are so white, after all, statistics in the National Assembly tell us how many MPs the mayors work and work, and how many MPs we hear or see here are not even in the National Assembly. It's not a criterion, and some of it's such a crazy thing to do. I think that this function is still extremely difficult, but it is also good for the National Assembly, because we know where we come from and we know what the problems of a small person are that we can say out loud here because some Members have already moved a little away from the voters' base. Now they're gonna come back, and before that, they're gone. Therefore, colleagues, don't be so impatient with these functions of mayor and MP, try these two functions, this is a garage that is sometimes inhuman, but is still available for some work, but I think very positive. And finally, in the new term, there's going to be another opportunity to decide if that doesn't suit you, and maybe once you do, you're going to end it, because it's not compatible, it's not hygienic and I don't know what else. That's why you guys don't have to worry about it. I will not support the amendment, is not appropriate, is such that it does not fall within the context of the whole law, which I will say something about later when we adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I think it's basically a requiem law for the Kosovo Commission. We all know that anyway, but we can't talk about it here because it's not a matter of this amendment. But it seems to me that this amendment can open up moral dilemmas to us who decide. It is certain that some people across Gaussian curves are more working, others are less working, and some are in the middle. And it can be that the mayors who responded, Comrade Rezman, colleague Janc, and here Jerič, who was previously behind, are like ants. I believe they work at home, I believe they work a lot here, but there are some colleagues who have both functions, and they're nowhere. But it's life. I want to talk about something else. Look, someone who works scientifically has to get permission now. Does any mayor get permission to perform this function? No, no, no. He's already been followed by ex-lege, ex-lege. And instead of having such a mayor with pride and honor to perform this function, he's still half his salary. That's not what people voted for. That's what we voted for. What's with all this?Oh, my God! A high-quality university professor will be paid a third of his salary, and we'll say he has to apply, and one mayor will go there, he'll get half his salary, and he'll even do the job, he'll even do the job. And here, you know, we're just coming across with the declared honesty that the National Assembly should have. I know that we were not Members who voted that these functions were compatible, but they were primarily parties that had MPs as trophy candidates in the elections. The parties were, some, those who were "tushing" this and are people who are garages, just as colleague Janc said it was suffering or a lot of this work, doing it all because it is also at the same time in conflict of interest when he works here and there. But we should once be morally strong enough for the National Assembly to once cut through this Gordy knot and stay where we are. Otherwise, it seems to me in the future that if democracy is to come to life with us, however it comes to life, it will also be a Member's function, an honourary function, not to be bound to some wage, but to be able to do another job, and to do this work here out of honor. It seems to me that after all this time, now that we've been through these crumbs of transitions, the National Assembly should also be unduly less burdened by the adoption of laws, not that we have at this session 30, 50, after 40 laws for each session. Yes, dear God, who will know all these laws? Who's gonna put them in life? How will these laws live? We can't redecorate the country. Therefore, at the same time, the way we view ourselves and how honest we are toward ourselves and how honest we are with those who have chosen us. I just meant to point this thing out here. I know I can't influence this law, but we will talk about these things as often as possible, and it may be early in the public eye that one knowledge will have to be taken into account by the people we represent here and taken the appropriate solution. So these two functions will eventually be separated.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u59	Thank you. Any other interests? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate on Article 5. And I am opening the debate on Article 22 and the amendment of the Zares Group to this Article. Since this amendment is equally linked to Articles 24 and 25, as it speaks only of the termination of the commission or of the termination period, I am putting all three articles and the amendment to this Article into discussion. I'm opening the application. Mr. Žnidaršič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u60	Thank you very much. So, we're going to support this amendment because we think it's pointless to rush to end the commission. Our support for the law as a whole was also linked to this. We will support this amendment because we believe that it is necessary to leave the work of the Commission at least until the time originally planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. I have already said that we have tabled amendments to transitional and final provisions because there were no other business options because the articles remained closed in accordance with the voter's will. Therefore, in the transitional and final provisions, we are trying to maintain the Commission until the end of the term of office, as envisaged. Several times in the National Assembly, of course more by the opposition than by the positions, it has been said that the current government has come to power to a large extent with criticism from the three K's, i.e. corruption, and therefore more closely monitored what is going on in this area. However, I can see that in the fight against corruption, the entire mandate has actually been spent, not to make this fight more effective, but only in order to end the commission or interrupting commission president, who obviously has some past accounts with the Prime Minister of the Government and must suffer a system of anti-corruption throughout the country. We don't think this rush is necessary. After all, it is no longer a matter of haste, it is more of a spot drip, because if it were to be reasonable, it would probably have been voluntarily abolished earlier without spending the entire term, and we don't know what the final outcome of this fight will be, I would have said. That's why we think it's wise to reconsider. In particular, we think we have the wrong approach. We agree that the Commission must get to prevent corruption of an upgraded function, as has been said several times. But in order for him to get it, we must first preserve it and take the time to upgrade it. We don't know what the coalition will be like after the fall elections. If we passed such a proposed law, it is unlikely that the future government coalition would have time before 1. 1. 2009 something systemic to do in order to upgrade this commission. We therefore propose in the transitional and final provisions that this should be maintained for a little longer, as envisaged, until 2010, when the new government coalition could do something that was not done in this mandate, so that the Commission could have its teeth and that something operational and effective in the fight against corruption could also be done, and not that the Commission could only be called off at all costs. This, of course, is not a good way for you to be able to show before the autumn elections what you have done in the fight against corruption and actually go into some hazy future in this area. It is ironic, of course, that after the calls of the Court of Auditors have been made to the same Court of Auditors, it should then be entrusted with such an important task. However, I must also say that the representative of the Court of Auditors on the home work body was very graphic when he commented on the competences of the Court of Auditors under this law. Of course, he made it clear that the Court of Auditors, especially if the personnel are transferred, could easily do what he was told. However, he also said that it would not be hygienic to define it until the law which imposes something additional on the Court of Auditors. Especially if this were to be, let us read, thinking negative and negative. Whatever. We hope that they will be at the cabin, but so much so that we will also leave the future government coalition an opportunity to upgrade this anti-corruption system. We also do not end the Commission in any way to prevent corruption. Which is the only point and perhaps will not be the only result of this government coalition in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u63	Thank you. I'd like to ask that we stick to the agenda. Mr. Rezman, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u64	Thank you very much again, Mr President. Both the DeSUS Group and I personally will support these amendments. I am even expressing some hope that they would be adopted with regard to the vote at the previous sitting. At the same time, I would like to say that we have always opposed the fundamental intentions of the proposed law. We know who wrote it, how he wrote it, why and who changed it and how it changed it, and, of course, this fundamental intention is not what it would like to be, but it is true that this independent commission is turning into something else. Let me remind you that the last vote on the appropriateness of this law was so close that it was a single vote and that it was not only the opposition at the time against declaring the bill appropriate. But that a large part of the coalition MPs are also against either they left the hall or they did not vote. So I think and I hope that there were no exercises in between that convinced those who had doubts at the time that they had to give up their concerns. So I will support this amendment. In no case, even if the amendments were adopted, I will not support the law. Because these amendments only relieve pain and do not solve the underlying problem. The Commission will be abolished.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u65	Thank you. Since there's still interest in the debate, I'm opening the application. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u66	Thank you very much. With regard to the proposals for amendments to Article 22, which provides for a different work of the Commission to prevent corruption, it seems to me that this amendment is the last serious possibility for us to maintain for a longer time not only a formal status that is less important but a substantive competence in the work of the Commission. It is necessary to know that, according to a proposal made by the Government, we are actually abolishing the substantive competences of the work of the Commission by adopting this law in its entirety and formally leaving the Commission to deal with the less important issues for which it is not actually established. Therefore, the amendment to Article 22 should be adopted and, on this occasion, reiterated and underlined. In Slovenia, according to the opinion of the Social Democrats, we need an independent and independent anti-corruption commission, which will have the power to draw clear views on what elements are and when and in which cases the fight against corruption is taking place, to collect relevant data, to advise state authorities and others, so that citizens can also turn to it with adequate confidence that corruption is detected and prevented, that it also has the necessary powers to operate, and that it also has the necessary powers to visa law enforcement authorities and judicial authorities. These were all the tasks and responsibilities that the Commission had to combat corruption so far. Just extending its term of office for one year, is said to be until 1 September 2009, without maintaining powers at the same time, means nothing or means too little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u68	Thank you very much. In my previous debate on this law, I have specifically stressed that the Commission's powers to prevent corruption, which this bill gives it only a life span of eight months or a good eight months, are much broader than some in the government and coalition would have wanted. For this reason, I also believe that the desire that the Commission should be abolished from 1 January 2009 and that its powers could be extended to a very large number of competently poor, poor bodies. In particular, we can claim this for commissions at the level of municipalities where some cannot even provide qualified electoral commission presidents, let's just say that they could be professionally strong enough to form a body that could carry out part of the anti-corruption commission's tasks. That is why I explicitly support these three amendments, in particular the first proposed by the Zares Group, because I believe that this may also give us time to think that instead of a multitude of incompetent and problematic bodies that are supposed to oversee or prevent corruption, and also corruption only among officials. For the last time, I have said that corruption is not just a basic problem for officials, but it is a problem of corruption or the promotion of corruption. In particular, public officials, officials with the power to decide on individual important public expenditure, public expenditure, are exposed, and their integrity is greatly compromised. With this law, when we abolish the anti-corruption Commission, we simply delete any possibility of control over public servants. I do not mean to say that public servants are more prone to corruption, but the labour force of these public officials is so much greater because of their threat to those who offer bribes or any other service. And there is no one in this country who would defend these public servants from such temptations. In fact, the Commission has done a great deal of work here to prevent corruption, and the research they are writing about in the explanation of this amendment to colleagues and colleagues from the Zares Group is very much to say. It says that in a public opinion in Slovenia the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is recognised as one of the most deserving of limiting corruption in Slovenia at all. It will certainly be difficult for us to say that the commissions in the municipalities will have such recognition by public opinion, by citizens and citizens of this country. For this reason, I think, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, consider, with the exception of DeSUS, which has already already been defined, whether it is a solidly independent body that has been appointed by the National Assembly to terminate only because some people in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are not willing. And one more thing, this law also introduces the Court of Auditors as one of the authorities that will also prevent corruption. Fine, but if this Court of Auditors finds corruption in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by the current President of the Government, then this corruption will not be recognised, because the Court of Auditors does not have the right authority because the judgement of the President of the Government and some of its advisers is such that the Court of Auditors has no idea and it is therefore ridiculous that the same government proposes an Court of Auditors for one of the authorities that will prevent corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor! I'm not going to support this. I believe that the basic purpose of the law is to abolish the body, an independent body which has been proven ineffective, as soon as possible. That it is ineffective, however, is already evident from the explanation for this amendment. Indeed, in 2007, 10% of the respondents said that corruption was increased by 2006. The Commission has been operating for a good three years, which is said to have failed to detect improvements during this period, probably due to the lack of action of this Commission. I am not talking about those who work on this committee, I am not talking about the commission, nor are these survey results. The fact is that we should work more effectively in Slovenia: the prosecution, police, criminals and, on the other hand, the Court of Auditors. All warnings from individuals, as well as from public records, should be subject to immediate investigations and serious investigations, not to certain investigations, but to the collection, often, of relevant material, and then the matter dies - either to the prosecutor or to the judge or to the court. But since we are now with the Anti-Corruption Commission, the fact is that if we look at its practical functioning, it collects, surveys individual officials, collects data that are already in this country's database or another database and then, on the basis of these collected data and also some indications, possibly measures. On the basis of the data selected, it is certainly difficult to obtain a relevant reason to establish some suspicion of corruption of the official. Much more has been done by this commission to confuse people who want to work in the public interest, especially in the municipal councils, and in this way it has prevented people with more practical knowledge and expertise from participating in public affairs with the knowledge of the environment. True corrupt relations hide behind what this commission collects for this data. And I think there are enough people in this country who know these cases in some way to detect and refer them to the relevant institutions, especially the prosecution, the police and the Court of Auditors. In my opinion, this Commission is completely out of line and is some addition, a decoration that has proved to be, even in the opinion of the citizens, useless. All State activity, power should also be directed towards more substantive work by the Court of Auditors, especially the more efficient work of prosecutors, and even sooner by criminals, in order to be able to gather relevant evidence in an operational and efficient manner. I will oppose this amendment and also fully support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! You are right to say that the National Assembly has indeed abolished the Anti-Corruption Act by enacting this law, but the court has brought this same law back to life, and unfortunately today this law is still in force, so that we do not change and speak falsely even in the National Assembly. I will support these three amendments to these three articles of the law for a simple reason, because today the government representative also spoke about hygiene, that the Ministry of Public Administration is as hygienic as it is, because his minister in this National Assembly has already said publicly and loudly that a new era of new law will occur after the end of the term of office of this commission, in 2010, and so I propose that if the Ministry already manifests hygiene to someone else, it should be only hygienic and sometimes wash its hands. Nor would I agree with the emphasis given today by the government representative that someone may not want to control the assets of officials. It may be someone, but it's definitely, with the whole process of the last three and a half years that you're the government, the executive doesn't want control. And most of all, customerism, corruption is in the executive branch of power, and we have the opportunity and the opportunity to read daily or in the newspaper or to listen to public media and so on. And in such a context and in such a state of growth and rise in corruption in Slovenia it is clear that such an independent commission is such an independent body of some foreigner in this philosophy. Over the past year, it has become clear that the problem in Slovenia is the rise in corruption. If octopuses have ever been discussed, today we can talk about an entire range of octopuses. So if in 2004, the current government, the current coalition, decided to eliminate this octopus, a whole series of small, young octopuses dealing with nepotism, customerism and corruption were created instead. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] President, try to calm the MP from the coalition. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u73	Please, really, only Kumer has a word. However, I ask Mr Kumar to stick to the agenda, because it is up to us to question the date of termination of the working committee, as in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u74	Not only date, we have three articles, we also have the abolition of this commission now in force. [[...]] It is said that I can also talk about the usefulness of the further existence of the Commission and why it has occurred that you are trying, not now, with 2010, but with 2009 to end. I simply believe that the proposal for a law that we have before us today is not worth discussing the preventive action of the fight against corruption, including by overseeing officials or checking the incompatibilities of the function they perform with another profitable activity. Because its consequences will only be identified by many authorities at different levels; and this practice proves: which of the officials has received greater, more beautiful, richer gifts. The taxpayer's money will continue to pass through the guided and agreed public contracts, beyond this control, which will be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u75	Mr. Kumer, there has been a general debate on the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u76	It's not a general debate, but I'm arguing why. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u77	She's already been, Mr. Kumer. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u78	necessary [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u79	the second warning. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u80	I'll finish here. It is precisely for these reasons that I believe that the Commission or this independent body must continue to operate at least until 2010, so that we will not only have an affair with the shovel, but that we will shoot something with the bulldozer, what has happened over the last three and a half years, in the area of customerism and corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u81	Thank you. Once again, I ask you to stick to the agenda. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. What I have come forward with was that I would warn, although I believe that the critical public accompanying us has already noticed this, to the huronic ridiculous contradiction between the amendment's proposal, between the text of the amendment and its explanation, which we have also witnessed to it now, and it is particularly written in writing in the very explanatory memorandum to the amendment as it has been tabled. Speaking of which, summed up in simple Slovenian. As an argument here, it is stated that the Commission should remain as long as possible, that is, until the end of the mandate, because corruption has increased significantly during this period. Over the past year, 10% of the population is expected to believe that corruption has increased. That's a quote. After a strong increase in corruption throughout the period after the independence period, 36.6% of respondents responded. It's also an explanation quote. This is simply said, because the Commission has obviously not been effective and corruption has been increasing all the time in our country, it is necessary to maintain that institution, which has obviously proved to be completely ineffective, as long as possible. Yes, perfect logic, I must say. That is indeed a fine explanation for such an amendment. Now, if there are some problems with simple human logic, let's look at this for real. The only concrete action that has been taken in the last period that has been so perceived by people against corruption has been initiated by the prosecution against the so-called transitional tycoon, but then it was very interesting what the Commission's reaction, the anti-corruption commission, would expect the first impulse to come. Something like this was then reported to the public that this commission also has some indications about this and that they will now review their materials as to what they can find in these materials. This is the first, so far nothing has been done in this area. Translated again into Slovenian. What this country needs are effective institutions, including in the pursuit or particularly in the pursuit of corruption. And if one institution has obviously not proved to be very effective, other possible solutions should also be considered. This is the content of this law. This amendment makes no sense in view of the fact that some condition, which I admit the very explanation of this amendment, that it is inappropriate to make it worse, is then prolonging. Yeah, what kind of logic is that? Where is the responsibility to people, to taxpayers, where is the responsibility to the rule of law here? By making two more brief replicas of what was just said. A colleague of the SD said earlier that the National Assembly had put an end to the fight against corruption - but not with these proposals and these laws. If anything has been done wrong in this House, it has been a move made there in 2002 or 2003, when the deadlines for the limitation of individual crimes, including in this area, including in the field of economic crime, were substantially reduced, and today, when the agenda was adopted, it has been a top-notch case of misrepresentation that those who have given the removal to corrupt people today themselves are proposing to withdraw from the agenda the new Penal Code, which prolongs the obsolete deadlines. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u83	Mr. Grimes, Article 22!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u84	And then a longer hand of justice. [[...]] I am simply responding to what has already been said in this debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u85	Yes, but I warned you again, we stick to Article 22, in conjunction with Articles 24 and 25.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u86	Well, I'm talking about the great contradiction between the explanation and the content of this article. This article, as the amendment is now proposed, means that the current situation would be prolonged. And in doing so, by the way, previously mentioned as an additional argument, again, I think that by a colleague of the SD species, it should also be taken into account if this was transferred to the Court of Auditors, as this implicitly means that the Court of Auditors has now found some corruption. You know, what the Court of Auditors found referred to 2002 or 2003 is that of the government in which you were colleagues from the SD together with colleagues from the LDS, but it directed the stubbornness towards the current minister because he did not get any response in time and in the form he just wanted. Because the Minister asked [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u87	Sir [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u88	an explanation of exactly what they want from him has been given the answer to get rid of him. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u89	Mr Grims, return to the amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u90	Of course, this is no corruption, and you can't imagine any of the ideas made by Kardel's grandson saying that this has already been detected or that this is evidence of corruption somewhere in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u91	Mr Grimes, I've warned you twice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u92	It's just a ruse, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u93	and please stick to Article 22. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u94	That's it. To conclude, once again, to argue the extension of the existing commission by increasing corruption is, of course, a pure paradox, a perfectly logical nonsense. If this Commission has obviously failed to enforce itself, if it has failed to demonstrate its effectiveness, it is necessary to seek and consider other options for a more effective fight against corruption. So this amendment from this point of view is totally unacceptable. This rather ridiculous and logical reasoning is only if I paraphrase that old wisdom that paper carries everything, proof that even microphones in this room obviously carry everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Nor will I agree with these amendments, which wish to extend the work of the Commission, as stated by my predecessor, even on the basis of arguments, are obviously ineffective. In fact, this Commission cannot show one proof of good, effective, that it has indeed been effective in some area. And why is that? It has already been named by the current opposition, then in order not to fight corruption effectively, but to be politically motivated all the time to fight mainly against its ideological opponents. We need to know that at least the top of this committee is politically ideologically motivated and has been set up as such. For if the opposition, which now opposes, acted in the interest of the citizens, in the interest of protecting human rights, in the interest of combating corruption, it would do otherwise in that recruitment. Even then, it was known that the President of this Commission had committed a very eloquent violation of human rights in the case of journalist Ranco, and that this was not the only such conduct in his previous post. He thus became entrenched in the interests of those who called him. And you're aware that he can't act against corruption when he comes across the corrupt behavior of your supporters and your members. This works consciously through and it shows very clearly. In addition, in the past year, there has been an unheard-of corruption within the Commission, by the President. In fact, the President of the Commission ordered a study on the functioning of the police in the field of human rights in the case of the Strojan family at the asylum centre in Postojna. No connection to corruption, no connection. However, it is a gross corruption that so purposelessly spends a large amount of budget money on a study in law school. That's corruption. And if we had any opposition in this country, and it would be in principle, at that point, we would start shouting and screaming and demand that such a president be replaced if this corruption were to stand up for the commission to fight corruption. No, no, no. This opposition does not do so, and I must repeat myself, for the same reasons you reject the Penal Code because the time limits for crimes for economic crimes are being extended. That's why you're rejecting the Penal Code and that's the main reason [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u97	Mr Jerovšek, I understand you're proving your eligibility on 1 January next year, but still [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u98	And that's why you're too. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u99	Stick to the subject [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u100	You do not advocate a comprehensive solution to the anti-corruption commission, a systemic solution, a solution to reduce corruption in that country. [[...]] In fact, you think with some euphoria that you will be in a better political situation and that you do not want to have an absolutely protected back then, so that they can follow your members, your officials [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u101	Mr Jerovšek, in connection with the article [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u102	Of course, yes, it is absolutely the commission's mandate. They want to have a commission that will be politically totally dependent on them, which has already, in the past, made it impossible to fight corruption. There are some people involved in your actions. And that's why I understand that you're against it. It is only necessary to say before the Slovenian public that you are not the one who wants less corruption in Slovenia. You have great credit for very serious corrupt activities in the country during your reign, and also later, and you are opposed to fighting corruption effectively in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u103	Thank you. Because it's still an interest I'm reopening my application. Mr. Kovacich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. The proposed amendment is once again not consistent as it was not consistent with the previous amendment. See, the purpose of each law is to put into effect as soon as possible and the time limit for the enforcement of the law and the application of individual provisions depends on when those who are obliged to enforce the law will be able to enter into law without delay, and individual provisions will be made. It is therefore a time limit for laws to enter into force and when individual provisions are to enter into force. With regard to this provision, with regard to the takeover of powers, the law's proposal is that this should happen on 1 January 2009. This is a very long, unusually long period for the implementation of the law and for the implementation of individual provisions. Thus, the Court of Auditors and everyone else should be sufficiently prepared at this time to be able to implement the legal provisions effectively. The amendment proposes to extend this unusually long period for more than one year. It's completely incomprehensible. Unless the amendment was put in to speculate. To speculate that this deadline here is extended to disability. At this time, if any other policy options arise at government level, we will change the law and the matter will proceed as smoothly as it is now. That's not the point. The purpose of the law is to bring what is adopted into effect as soon as possible. And of course, speculative proposals and speculative amendments cannot be accepted and the amendments justified on the assumption that something will happen in the future, and then we will take advantage of it and then adjust our interests to that state. That's not how it works. And, of course, if someone says that something is controversial and on this basis justifies the justification of their proposals, it is strange and unacceptable again. Just because something's controversial for someone doesn't mean that you're building on it, that something other than what's proposed needs to be changed. That's controversial. Well, it can always be controversial if someone thinks otherwise. But that doesn't mean that what's at stake is that it's wrong. Nothing's wrong. As long as it's only controversial, there's nothing wrong. Well, that's why I can't accept this amendment for reasons I've also said. By the way, even if, as some claim, it is an independent committee which I claim is not independent, as has been shown during the term of office of this Commission, so is not independent, and even if this commission were independent, this does not mean that things change during the duration of a mandate, that they change, that they try to improve further and that other institutions are also introduced in this area, namely, the Court of Auditors, which may be just as independent. Therefore, even if this current commission were independent, the Court of Auditors is independent and, above all, more professionally qualified. It is likely that all of us now present will agree. Therefore, as it is said, this amendment is not worthy of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, I would first suggest that you use the same vats for all debaters and that you just let them debate, because in the end everyone is discussing whether or not to stop or not the commission. So it is not fair to remind one like Kumar three times, Comrade Jerovšek, who struck completely nice and did not even talk about the amendment, but was just left alone. It's my opinion that you'll let everyone speak their mind. As far as Mr Grimes' explanation is concerned, of course, it is his own. He turned all this stuff upside down. Yes, Mr Grimes, the only goal is to abolish the commission. We find that there is a sense of corruption between people and the awareness that there is more corruption. That's what you should be asking yourself, not us. Since you were bragging before the elections four years ago about how you're going to get on your toes, I don't know who, you've spent four years shutting down the Hair, because you're obviously disturbed by it. I don't know if you will or won't. You just hope you will. Of course, you have proposed a very long period of hygiene, I agree with my colleague Kovacic. Then suggest a shorter one. But you want to create that - because after the elections it will come to an end. Although you know that once the whole procedure for appointing a new government is turned around, there will be no time to fix it, and we want to give this opportunity only. And if the commission is as ineffective as you say. I also say that it is not effective enough, and I have said that we should upgrade, and the Group of Members has also proposed a law on which, as we say, you would have given the Commission your teeth, and this is a misappropriation, this law has been rejected. Of course why? Because there's probably a piece back there, and you don't want to hear it, you probably get struck by measles when you hear that name. But anyway. But more communication is what you do to bring to the Court of Auditors. This same Court of Auditors, which the President of the Government says may have something right in its argument, but which denies him the right to propose something, thus diminishing its meaning, this same Court of Auditors [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u107	Mr. Tarchoon, there is nothing in Article 20 about the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u108	Yes, Mr. President. I already told you. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] I explain, everyone has, obviously we look at this law differently, me and you, I have to say that I studied a lot, as far as this law is concerned, and the content is very complicated. [[...]] In the meantime, the Court of Auditors is also involved. Because if you accept [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u109	Just please, not the general debate. We've had this before. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u110	We will make a harmonisation amendment, and then there will be no more Court of Auditors, but there will continue to be a commission. Let me explain, Mr President, what the Court of Auditors has to do with this because it obviously has something. So, this is an overstatement that this same Court of Auditors, which you deny him some important competences, imposes other competences. This is such a beautiful game before the elections, which has absolutely no effect, but the fact is, once again, that this awareness of the threat of these negative phenomena in humans is increasing. And that should worry you when you have to put the results on the table before the elections, not just who should do it with a name and surname. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Grimes has reached out to the replica. Don't you? I'm sorry, I thought you called in the replica. Mr. Scholch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u112	Thank you very much. We will also support these amendments in our House of Members, and they will not ultimately bring the solutions necessary to make this Commission more effective; but it has been discussed by Comrade Terchoon and other colleagues from the opposition. At the time of these amendments, what is interesting is not only what is written down and what will be decided in the end, but what has been said in this Hall. Colleagues from the coalition say in a row that corruption has grown, that since 2006, we have heard it from the right side, this has increased significantly, that there is a number of institutions that can deal with it. And that, here it is, I will say, in the work of the ideology of the ideologists of this solution, obviously the only thing that actually makes it possible to grow corruption, the commission led by Mr Kos. Because the logic of their argument is that if they weren't there, it would be easier; it would work, say, an ethical code that forbids ministers different things. However, when Minister Virant was asked, for example, after the ethical conduct of Minister Rupl regarding the use of official matters for private purposes for his wife, it immediately happened that the writer of the Code was instigated, that the interpretation of the Code and the application of the Code belonged solely to the President of the Government. We are talking a lot here about how the Court of Auditors could have done something instead of the Kosovo Commission. I agree, I could certainly, once the case is concluded, and certainly the Court of Auditors would not be embarrassed if the Ministers were to take account of the Court of Auditors' statements, but not them. If we let our friend Grims say that the mistake was made in the time of Mr Copac and Mr Rob, and I don't even know which parties they are in at the moment, but at the same time you attribute this to some LDS planning activity, then I have to tell you that we are not worried about this debate in LDS. Absolutely, Mr Grims, we are not concerned, nor is the debate on Mr Sponik, nor is the debate on the previous ministers. The judgment of the Court of Auditors is quite clear: the President of the Government should propose the discharge of Minister Podobnik for failure to respond to the report. Later we read two more reports on the state of affairs at [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u113	Mr. Skolč, we have a certain law on the agenda and even a certain article.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u114	Mr President, I would not take the floor if your colleagues from your parliamentary group did not open this. I certainly wouldn't. I didn't do it in the first round. But I am talking about this idea that this so-called Kosovo Commission can be replaced with everything else, as my colleague Grims would say, this speech is not sincere, not Mr Grims, not his bosses, but disregard it, otherwise they would have taken into account the sentences of the Court of Auditors. And we wouldn't have any trouble with that. We've paid for certain things in the elections, after the elections, and you give them at this point in time, according to a statement in the National Assembly. What is your logic, I do not believe that it will be better if this commission is lifted or that every body that deals with anything is fine, only if it is not led by Mr Kos. I'm sorry, but the urgency of this debate brings me to this. It has also been said that in fact you use and abuse the instruments of the law to deal with people for purely private reasons. What you have between you and Mr Koso, this for this law and this system of anti-corruption is not important, but that you go so far as to translate this into legal solutions or marriage solutions, which I think is worth discussing, Mr President, and the intention of what we hear from your colleagues and it is right to hear this, I do not complain at all if you let them talk, because when they speak, they tell me why this is actually going on, is exactly what, in addition to looking at this commission under your fingertips, you obviously have another private, colleague Grims, saying political accounts. Political accounts are not settled on the supervisory boards. That's my point. By showing that this discussion is open and it would suggest that it would be better to get rid of Mr Kos than you think it would be better than to get rid of certain independent journalists when it is possible to get rid of any other judge, in what important court, possibly the Commissioners for access to this information and so on. Obviously, anyone who shows that something is wrong is disturbing to you, not an integral part of the element or mechanism of power-sharing and control of various branches of authority. What's the problem is that you understand Slovenia as your feudal possession with absolute authority and no one has until the sun shines from Grosuplja right to talk about anything here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u115	Mr. Skull, you've sailed a long way. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Some of your colleagues and colleagues, especially from the opposition, have said that corruption is on the rise and that you are saying this by heart. If this is true, then it is unacceptable and if you want it not hygienic to talk about building machinery, shovels and bulldozers and the reproduction of certain marine animals at this point. It is unacceptable, then you point out that you are very, very little in favour of strengthening and making the fight against corruption more effective. It was also clear from the discussions of some colleagues and colleagues that we are repealing the so-called Kosovo Commission by this law. Allow me. I don't know if I was sent to refresh your memory. I would like to clarify that the Law on Restrictions and Prohibitions for Public Functioning Organisations, which we are currently considering, does not repeal the Commission's anti-corruption law. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia abolished the Anti-Corruption Commission some two years ago, in 2006. This is all I am saying regarding the amendment to Articles 24, 25 and 22, or as a result. This Commission was terminated by the National Assembly when it adopted the Law on the Incompatibilities of Public Administration with Profitful Activities. This law was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia number 20 in 2006. However, the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia then assessed certain provisions of this law and found non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but not with regard to the abolition of the Commission to prevent corruption. The proposal of the Law on Restrictions and Prohibitions for Public Functional Operators, which is now under consideration, will give effect to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and will eliminate constitutional non-compliance. However, a transitional provision should be introduced in the draft law or in the amended bill, which prolongs the Commission's time of action to prevent corruption, since, while this is very important, "in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision to do so," this commission "would cease to work immediately after the new law has been enacted." As a result, we feel that the date of 1 January 2009 is the right date, so this amendment by colleagues and colleagues from the Zares Group, which is an amendment to Article 22, will not be supported by the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The debate on Article 22 and some of the following is about a different view in our parliamentary group and, I understand, also in the majority of the opposition and in the three largest groups of the coalition, namely, Democrats, New Slovenia and the Slovenian People's Party. Yes, we want to keep the Anti-Corruption Commission alive for as long as possible. As far as I'm concerned, and I hope to say that my client too, not only for as long as possible, but also as a permanent element of our system. And that is why we do not want to have a short - term withdrawal and then reestablishment in a few months. We are convinced that the functioning of such a commission is useful, not the only solution, but useful for the overall efforts of society as a whole and all its anti-corruption bodies. In doing so, we do not think that the role of other organs, law enforcement, police, prosecution, courts should be reduced. Whoever claims this has not listened to the debates in this National Assembly, which last for several years on this issue; we have never said that. The more effective the police, the prosecution, the more justice, the better, but this does not mean that in this context they may not have their own functions and roles as well as the anti-corruption commission. What role and what tasks he has, it is right to say in public - those that you do not recognize. The ones you don't want to have because you think you can solve everything by identifying the property status of the officials. The tasks and responsibilities of this Commission have so far been much broader, and we think they should remain in this context around. And you're telling me whose commission this is. If a law on the prevention of corruption had been adopted, it would not have been repealed if amendments had been adopted, which the Group of Members had indeed made to this law, to have a committee which, I hope, would not have been established by the opposition. It would be designated by the National Assembly and the candidates would be the President of the Republic, our Commission of Mandate, the Council of Justice and the Government. And in what, dear gentlemen, is so wrong that you can make it clear that such a commission would be the wrong composition. That's all we have to do is extend the deadline so we can get there. You claim that the Commission was not effective. Yes, I agree. She admits it herself. Only if someone and this is a ruling coalition, led by colleagues and colleagues who have also spoken to her today on behalf of the ruling coalition, is every day moving the ground under her feet again and claiming that she is unnecessary, that she cannot act as if she had to be terminated, then it is a miracle that she was as effective as she was in the report that we discussed a few months ago and with a large majority in this national assembly. Where you were not colleagues from the coalition or where you were then saying that this report is "lari fari", and that there is no real content in it. No, no, no. You have praised him in the same way as the opposition has praised him, and that is also why it is right for this commission to act. And the purpose of the law is to continue its work in order to strengthen itself more against corruption. Her withdrawal means something the other way around. I would like to allow the Commission to function as long as possible so that we can find together a realization that there is also a lot of other things in us, and that commission is an integral part of the anti-corruption action, otherwise we would not be reminded of this by international organisations that are fighting corruption, which even this time, when it suits you, is the ruling coalition of whistleblowers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that. I hope I can speak a few sentences in peace now. First of all, I would say that this argument on inefficiency, on which the ruling coalition is based, would suggest that it is at least a little morally correct. Indeed, this commission we are talking about, the Anti-Corruption Commission, has not even experienced its first birthday. As soon as 2005 in spring, with all the canons you attacked this commission, I say, it did not experience the first birthday and today after three years of always being attacked to speak and to report ineffectiveness, of course it did. It cannot survive if the ruling coalition, which has everything in its hands, torpedoes it daily, and then let it prove itself in its work, so that it is a little moral incompetence and we could use other arguments, not this. Second of all, what is moral to me is not entirely right. We have ratified the UN Convention in this National Assembly and we have discussed and ratified the fight against corruption, not the Convention on the Incompatibilities of Functions and on the gainful activities of officials. So that all the bodies you refer to and today have been told other ways to fight corruption. These work for 17 years, as long as we have this independent state of Slovenia. No one obstructed or legally prevented law enforcement, judicial authorities from carrying out their affairs. And in the end, some kind of small political corruption was confirmed at the last meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy when I looked at the magnetogram, when one of the former members of the Slovenian National Party simply said, one of the coalition members came to the SNS Group and presented the law. And we came to the National Assembly with this law. Please, I'm already used to the "plonk" lists of coalitions, but this is one big "plonk" list that you've just "entered" with him into another party's parliamentary group that's not in the coalition and you've somehow abused this institution, and it's also such a small political corruption that's happened in this National Assembly, and today you're talking about all the other things, just your undisputed, immoral act.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u121	Mr. Kumer, at least you could stick to the law, which is in the debate. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, it is really none of my business, and it is entirely within your purview, but I would not restrict the Members of the SDS in the debate on this amendment. It is not good for all of us, as well as for those who accompany us, that our colleagues reveal to us the ideological, political and valuable assumptions of their argument for the abolition of the Kosovo Commission. After all, as many people seem to think, they may also be helping those who advocate the work of the Kosovo Commission. I think it's right to hear the voice of your colleagues, and I think it says more than they think they do. Otherwise, colleagues and colleagues, I will support this and the related amendments, as some others do, I think it is good that this commission works as long as possible, that it does not stop its work and that, of course, in the course of this exercise, it improves, repairs, complements and has the function that it is supposed to have in some comprehensive system of control and fight against corruption. I would like to emphasise and to base this on the fact that, unfortunately, we must remember the prices of this history for a short time. If this mandate, which now expires, ends with the fight against corruption, it ends with the fight against the Commission, the anti-corruption Commission. And it's a paradoxical plant that's gonna be hard to find the right explanation. And it is said that this is an explanation, in fact, I have to correct myself, very much we can find the right explanation. It was simple to say, one of the colleagues said, the political summit of the Commission is ideologically inappropriate and contrary to this coalition, so the Commission should be abolished. This was said and this is the reason stated at first and directly. So much for fighting corruption. Corruption should be dealt with by the police, it has been said several times by colleagues. Of course, yes, who else, like the police, the police, the prosecutions, the courts and so on. However, according to numerous international studies, many other experiences and examples, when police start dealing with corruption, it is too late. After all, it is in the system, when only the police are left to fight corruption, it is also usually so that the same police may be the victim or be affected by corruption. And the circle is closed, so it has been clearly said, and in these declarations that we have adopted, both in resolutions and in proposals and in experiences against corruption, which is a serious problem, but in global global dimensions there is a global problem, it is necessary to create some kind of transparent, social, economic and financial environment, transparency between policies, finance, and economy that will prevent corruption from actually occurring and that will make the environment less prone to corruption. I am not saying that Kosovo's commission has come a long way in this path, only to begin with some principled public opinion, perhaps, but barely to the beginning, and more than that could be done. If you think you're going to locate corruption in the political, ideological disqualifications of "ala tycoons", on the other hand, into police persecution, I'll tell you that you're just going to drive corruption into the world, disperse it and speed it up. It is therefore necessary to establish a fight against corruption at different levels, from different points to different forms of action. Well, easy. And now a funny argument is that the argument of this amendment is contradictory in this sense because the polls show that people think that corruption has increased. This proves the injustice or poor work of the Kosovo Commission. According to this logic, of course, we could say that corruption is the least and the most corrupt, I would say, the prevention of corruption is regulated in authoritarian countries. There is no talk of corruption, of course it must not whisper and there you will not find any data on corruption and corruption. If you want such a picture of corruption, where corruption has come so far as it should not even be spoken of, then of course the argument you have made can be true, but of course it is ridiculous. Funny, unworthy of some normal, healthy and logical thinking, and ridiculous, unworthy interpretations that exist in the profession. It is precisely that increasing sensitivity to corruption is partly due to the Kosovo Commission, but also, of course, to policies, repeatedly in a negative sense. As far as corruption is concerned today, this means that we must take corruption seriously, not actually turn it around and turn it in such a way or in a different way. And in the end, I know it's over. Correcting the wrong line. The Court of Auditors’ proposal regarding the discharge of Minister Podobnik does not refer to the wrong charging and separation of the environmental levy in 2002 and 2003 and 2005, but to another similar attempt to legalise these wrongly charged duties in fact through its internal, sub-legislative legislation and because it was sufficient for the Court of Auditors to do what it did, it appears, of course, to have done what it did. It's very simple, look at the documents. Why it did so, very interestingly - most of the money that the municipalities should return, I have to tell my colleagues, but it comes from the environment where the mayors are, right at the largest, from the SLS. Very interesting. I'm just setting up a connection, I'm not assuming anything, and I'm saying it was any corruption, but I'm seeing some distinctive resemblance and detail. Why is that? Ask yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u123	Thank you. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say that the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors is truly misunderstood. On several occasions, I have heard colleagues from coalition parties that it is a matter of extending the Commission's functioning. It is not true, this amendment merely establishes the situation as set out in the Anti-Corruption Act. This Commission has a six-year term of office since April 2004 and has been six years since April 2010. As a result, it is not a matter of prolonging the situation, but it is only a matter of correcting the wrong provision, because the statements made by the representatives of the Government, I am not speaking to today's representatives of the Government, but also, in the end, to the Minister, that the Commission should act until the end of its term of office. However, the mandate expires as it was said in April 2010. Secondly, what I would like to say is that it is typical of some members of the coalition parties that they very much want to read only part of what has been stated as an argument and interpret it as a catastrophic situation or a catastrophic failure in this case of this Commission. I would only read what is also written in the explanation of this amendment, or this explanation refers to all three amendments. Among other things, it says this: "After the research, the media and the Commission contribute most to the fight against corruption. Most respondents also advocate the continuation of the commission." Interestingly, the Member did not consider it necessary to say so. Thus, when we talk about the judgment of people who are asked for an opinion, we cannot say that it is credible or professional, but much is said about how people feel about corruption in particular, how they feel about corruption. And it is very significant that people's opinion on the assessment of frequency has changed significantly from 2006 to 2007 and that corruption has increased significantly between 2006 and 2007, and that the number of those who said that corruption has increased slightly or remained at the same level has decreased by five percent. This is said to have some legitimate reasons for the Commission's need to prevent corruption, despite the fact that, in Article 25, it works completely disabled, but then there is still time, I will join my leader of the parliamentary group, leaving us time to maintain and supplement, strengthen the only independent body that prevents corruption in this country. Everyone else, we cannot say that the Court of Auditors is qualified to prevent corruption. The Court of Auditors has completely different tasks and does not tell me that it is not humiliation, and I will tell the Court of Auditors that if we give him a mandate to check whether the officials have reported gifts in the past year and how many gifts they have reported, then be ridiculous. I have to say, you fools are making fun of the Court of Auditors with such a bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Grimes, the replica. No, the debate. Then I will reopen my application for debate. Mr. Ljublješek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I listen to today's debate on the two amendments, I am listening to a debate that I have listened to for three years. Everything else, except what actually concerns both amendments, the previous one, which we have already discussed, in which I wanted to discuss and, somehow, to protest in person that a debate is opening. In particular, I personally object to any additional gainful activity if you are a Member. If you're a Member, be a 100% Member. Otherwise, before the election, tell the electorate you'll only be an 80% Member. As regards this amendment, which is very short, as of 1 January 2009, it shall be replaced by the text from the date of completion of the term of office of the President and of the members of the Commission. I will not go into the content of the commission's work, the so-called Kosovo Commission, or discuss any such or other way, the form of control, the effective control of corruption. That was, as I said, a lot has been said in these three years. Today it's all over again. We are all in favour of the fact that corruption was, that corruption exists and that corruption must be pursued in an effective manner. And here it would be interesting to consider once the analysis of the work so far by the Commission, how effective this Commission has been with concrete actions, with concrete prosecutions and so on. The powers and work of this Commission shall be delegated by law or proposal to the Court of Auditors. I cannot agree with my colleague Pecanovo, who said that the Commission is the only body in the country that can prosecute corruption. That the Court of Auditors is not qualified to do so does not mean that it denies the Court of Auditors as an organ as an ineffective body. And I will only read from the MRI from the parent working body, when the Court of Auditors is represented, Mr Wesdell said: The proposed functions proposed by the proposer to the Court of Auditors, which is the control of the property situation, the acceptance of gifts, the ban on business, we claim that they can be fully carried out without a hitch, let's say, or more difficult audit tasks. We are used to such audit work and that it is likely that you will acknowledge to us that such tasks for us, of course, cannot present an over-expert challenge. That's what the Court of Auditors said, and it's written down, and I'm not going to read any further, because you can read for yourself what else he said. So I think it's time for it to start working after a new one. 1. 2009 is the due date. Why? As the elections will be held by then, the new National Assembly will be established, a new government will be opened, a new coalition, whatever it may be. There will be new officials and it is also right that, with 1.1.2009, supervision of, for the first time, incompatibility and, for the second time, the new function also assumed by the Court of Auditors will be exercised. I don't see the real reason why this thing is going to be extended until 19.4.2010. This is said to be another year because since 1.1.2009 this commission, Kosovo, will have worked for 5 years because it was established on 19.4.2004. And I don't see why we should be doing this for another year. I think it's fitting to open a new National Assembly, a new government, new officials, and start working under a new adopted law. Therefore, I cannot support this amendment in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Mrs Pecanov's claim that the proponents or those who support this law are making a fool of the Court of Auditors, however, I think she has exceeded all the limits of good taste. In order to impose an opinion on the Court of Auditors in this way, when this Court of Auditors is only a public body and a working body meeting dealing with this subject has said that it accepts that it agrees with the content of this proposed law, that it will be implemented without difficulty, and that it is able to implement it even in a significantly shorter time than is now envisaged here. However, we have heard such a statement from the honourable Member. It's very unfair, and I don't know what we were meant to do. As far as the proposed amendments are concerned; they say, our intention is, by introducing an amendment, to extend as long as possible the mandate of the existing so-called Kosovo Commission. Therefore, at the same time, the applicants want the law to be passed but the implementation of this law to be extended as long as possible. What's the point? So if the purpose is not to enforce something, so that the law does not apply, why submit an amendment. The law should be adopted, but the law should be extended indefinitely into a distant future. Then why did you table the amendment? Just make a simple decision when you vote against the law. Why are you in favour of marriage, but the law should be extended to disability? I don't see any logic here. But if the law is passed, then it is the purpose of every law to enforce itself as soon as possible, as I have said before, so if you are to adopt the law, then it must be your interest to enforce the law as soon as possible, not to adopt the law and then not to enforce it. So, I don't know why you tabled an amendment not to enforce the law. You're for marriage, but not to enforce it. Well, I don't understand what I'm doing. It would simply be more right, more fair to say we disagree with the law, we are against it, not like you did. So, the amendment, once again, is unnecessary and completely, even because of what I just said, makes no sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u130	First, a replica essentially to all those who have been so interesting in turning my words around. When the subconscious speaks, it's really interesting. In fact, a few of the debaters specifically mentioned my last name and spoke as if I were talking about Mr Kos. If you go to watch the magnetogram of my debate that I had before, you will see that I have not even mentioned Mr Dragos with a word and a last name. So where did these people come from? This is an old rhetorical trick used by the transitional opposition, that every debate on the matter tries to reverse the debate on the human being, that the whole debate on people is instead of a debate on things because they lack arguments there. I didn't have to mention anything to Mr Drag Kos, because he himself is a very smart man, and he knows very well that he would have helped the most to the reputation of the commission he leads if, on the day that he became a court judge, he had participated in some procedure which the court considered to be a grave intervention in human rights against the journalist Mr Ranc himself, had resigned, but he did not do so, insisting on the place, he decided so, unfortunately he also did not burden this debate on this element, and you yourself showed it, not me, I did not mention in my debate Mr Draga Kos. And in this way, all of your debates, because in fact your subconscious is giving them away, sound like you're saying, yes, you know, we don't know where we're going to give this gentleman, because the court has assessed that he's been involved in some case that the court has considered as a grave violation of human rights against an independent journalist, that we're going to provide him with such a good salary that he has now, and so let's just extend it a little bit. So now all this effort for this amendment sounds like. But Mr. Drago Kos, as I say, is a smart man, he knows it himself, and that's why I didn't say anything about him. And all those of you who have cited this, and with me, have disputed it, you have been very mischievous. And that, by the way, is a diplomatic expression, because in the folk talk it's called lying like a dog. [[...]] The second thing I wanted to point out, however, is that it's really interesting that you're so upset that I've given you an argument that's written in this amendment, which just proves that, in people's minds, the fight against corruption until recently has not been particularly effective, on the contrary, people have become increasingly sensitive to it. However, I agree with my colleague Gantar's argument that this is to a large extent probably because it is also a comparison before 1990, provided that in totalitarian regimes such as Slovenia by 1990, unfortunately, even had, corruption is not recognised as a real problem and formally does not exist. And that's why it's not in the minds of people, even though every totalitarian society is really plagued by corruption, because that's actually how this mechanism works. Well, the fact is that the only effective action in the fight against corruption, which is evident, verifiable, was the action of the prosecution and the police against the so-called transitional tycoons. And there this commission had no role to play. On the contrary, only later did she go to her own admissions to check whether she had something to do with her own materials; this was what was said in all the newspapers; I believe that it was properly transmitted by journalists. Of course, this is obvious inefficiency. However, it is interesting that this logic, which some of you have developed, is now at the end of a colleague from the SD, because apparently the Commission has not been able to carry out well all these tasks that have been done to her so far, and let us give her some others to be even more overwhelmed with work, and then this will increase and potentise. A very interesting logic, isn't it, and by the way, exactly follows an absurd, sorry, rather ridiculous explanation in this amendment, that because the obvious fight against corruption has not been successful, the institution established for this purpose must obviously not do well to extend its existence as long as possible. Here it is confused with fundamental logic, and above all it is irresponsible for people, because in the end people are paying for it all. Each institution justifies its existence with some efficiency. In this case, this would be most demonstrated by an action that the prosecution or the police would have initiated on the basis of the notices they would have received from this commission. However, there has been no trace of that at some state level so far. And that's why it's all just spinning around hot porridge. Whether we are able to admit that this story has not fulfilled expectations, that the Commission has not met its expectations by the legislator at the time it was set up, and that we will then explore other options to look at which other institutions are. By the way, the Court of Auditors has only said that it can easily do what they would impose on it by law, which is currently at rest due to the decision of the Constitutional Court. This is said to be the case as well. It is about finding a way to fight corruption effectively. By establishing appropriate institutions, if necessary or by appropriate redistribution of powers in a manner that will be most rational from the point of view of the taxpayer. Because that's what this is all about. We can establish an infinite number of institutions, and if the effect of the operation of all these institutions is nothing, then this is a pure waste of money. Let's say it in the right words. For this reason, of course, given the argument that this proposed amendment is paradoxical, it is itself with its own reasoning contrary and for this reason not alone, nor will we support colleagues in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u131	Thank you. Because it's still an interest. I'm opening the application. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, it's basically a combination of two, three replicas. Now it has been revealed to us, Members of the Really Group of Members, that we are in law on why we are proposing amendments. First of all, I would say that all Members, all Members in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, have the right to make amendments, to discuss them, to strive to be adopted and so on. That's the first thing. And we don't need a lesson in why we're making amendments. What about the law? Of course, we are against this law, because it is perfectly clear to everyone in this room and it is more clear that you, ladies and gentlemen, have already broken the jug. The pot's already broken. What's going on here is that we save at least a few reeds, that everything doesn't go to the end, that everything doesn't go to the end and so on. This is what we want to do and maintain a structure that will, however, be able to work in some different contexts. If you continue to rule, this is all over, and this story is over. So our policy is not in this sense, I would say, as bad as possible, the better, but we want to resolve, in a bad law that we cannot support, but that is clearly a normal, healthy and reasonable policy. Once again, I would like to mention this, in particular, the argument to our amendments is not disputed with the amendments. Once again, I would like to say, above all, that those who interpret that if people are more sensitive to corruption, this means that the current institutions fighting corruption are doing worse their job, such a direct link cannot be drawn. And you can't pull it because it's just wrong. In this sense, as we say, you must agree that less than talking about corruption is a more effective fight against corruption. If that's what you're saying, then you can say another. And because you say you don't say that, because less than corruption is said, fighting corruption is more successful because you say you don't say it, then you can't say it the other way around. And that's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u133	Thank you. Here's the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u134	Just for a little while. Because it's all about reinterpreting what I'm saying again, just one short answer. If someone advocates an extension of the existence of an institution that has clearly demonstrated its inefficiency, then he is objectively interested in the fact that corruption is as much as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The amendment itself doesn't seem to make sense to me if it really does make a wish for the marriage to fail. Because I think a law that's not good should be broken. The fact is that the law that we put into procedure in 10.2.2006 was quite different and was more consistent than it is now after the Constitutional Court is 29.3. 2007 commented on the basic law that, since then, the law has changed very much. Therefore, on the other hand, I am asking about this corruption in Slovenia. How many people are imprisoned for corruption in Slovenia. Practically none. In the 12th year, from 1992 to 2004, only one went to prison, and the one conditionally, in fact, if we look at Mr S., I speak in such a way that no one would then sue me, because in Parliament we must not speak directly and openly, as a person would expect, because someone can sue us and therefore we can pay a huge amount of money. So some even lose their existence. But this Mr. S. was in so-called house arrest, walking around, shopping, having fun, and eventually going to one country across the border, starting at K. Then, of course, when he was dragged back into force, he was now sanctioned. On the other hand, we have a variety of gentlemen here who are actually dealing with political corruption, if we say political corruption, because it would be hard to say that the new BMWs are in the context of some lawyers representing various breweries, called Beerware L., that they are not bribed in this case. Here, too, some presidents of certain political parties starting with the Slovenian L. Party give these gentlemen space in their official premises where they are mayoring, etc. In short, here we have a lot of swindling, strange variants and nonsense. So, marriage really isn't good. Of course, it's not good, because it all slipped into one strange frame. Now they're going to look at us long and long, and then they're going to check us out with some election committees in every village, where, say, we're going to live or live, which is stupid and pointless. If we really want to do something, then let us make sure that we know who is drinking and who is paying, and this has been done in our basic law. That's how the law was made. And despite the fact that someone is speaking here, that he was once a member of another parliamentary group, but that one of the coalition MPs came in and introduced a law to abolish Kosovo's commission, I can only say about this man, that he was probably in one of his regulars at the time, I would say, a condition when he didn't know exactly what was with him, and even less, what happened to the environment. However, it would be good if other fellow Members did not take into account such an escapade of some people and put this as the truth here for discussion. I think it would make sense, above all, that this amendment, which essentially declares very strangely when the term of office of the President and the members of the Commission ends, because the mandates do not end at the same time, but end differently, so that we will simply oppose this amendment. But to return to this basic law and its nonsense. Well, the indiscretions begin when the Constitutional Court demanded the annulment of certain parts and found non-conformity with the Constitution. One wonders how the Constitutional Court decides to disagree with the Constitution or only for moments, on current considerations or on a directive that may also be called political corruption or otherwise. One wonders how much more difficult there is in these decisions of the Constitutional Court, on which I personally do not have much opinion, I hope that something will change, but so far the functioning of the Constitutional Court has been damned sad and largely directed against the welfare of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and against the well-being of our country. I don't know how it's gonna be. In short, we will see what will happen, but if the law is adopted, there will be another mess in Slovenia. I think we should, after all, investigate corruption, the police, the prosecution and sanction the judicial authorities, but no one does, even for that, I don't know, maybe because it's all too connected to each other. I'm sure there's quite a lot of judges bribed. And not just with political corruption, but with financial injections. Our public hearings are full of all sorts of strange stories in which the thought of man cannot go elsewhere than that of the gentlemen who make up those so-called completely independent and over-community raised by the assembly of the judiciary to be bribed. Many such gentlemen who were in positions then jumped to various private companies in two days, where they continue to operate, of course, with former connections, perhaps even with a whole bunch of documentation that they took home. In short, I think that the trouble in Slovenia will continue until something hard is cleaned and settled here, but this matter will only be settled when 10 gentlemen, the so-called tycoons, really sit behind bars to get them after 10, 15 years. Those babbling people who don't know what they're talking about, they're gonna end up where they usually end up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I agree that the adoption of the law will mean the continuation of one major scourge in the fight against corruption. Because I see no reason why the majority in the National Assembly, except that it protects some of its interests, would be against the activities of the anti-corruption bodies being expanded and made possible. That is why I would like to say, with all the introductions of colleagues and colleagues or more colleagues from the coalition, that we are talking about the amendment in the Group of Social Democrats because this is our only opportunity to talk about the content of the law. Otherwise we'll be against the law. We hope that this law will not be passed. Enforcement or later enforcement is only an opportunity to help ensure that the law is not finally enforced and that that principle or that claim will also be established in a decision of the Constitutional Court which states: "The obligation to regulate anti-corruption is not expressly laid down in the Constitution. However, the general principle of the legality of the functioning of the public authorities and their officials as one of the principles of the rule of law set out in Article 2 of the Constitution also establishes a requirement to prevent corruption." Thus, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot invoke that it is a great honour for you to ensure or assist in the fact that the Anti-Corruption Act was abolished in 2006 and that from then on we are discussing how long there is, how long it does not wish to do so, because the only Constitutional Court has said that the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act continue to apply to comply with the Constitution. And now just one more thought. You quoted a colleague of Pecan's. Her words were very logical. It is deplorable to require him to take over new transactions, new responsibilities, the Court of Auditors, when this coalition has no positive relationship with the Court of Auditors, since the Government is not prepared to comply with its provisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u139	Thank you very much. However, Member Rudy Veršnik has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! Your Honor! I myself was a member of this commission at the beginning of my term of office. I believe that at the time that I was just a member, more or less we were only discussing matters of how the Commission is moving papers from one end to another and looking for - I will say - quasi-crimes in some offices with some people who have never had enough. I have also said several times in public appearances that the Commission is some kind of paper tiger and I remain in it. Today, we are talking about Article 24, by which the positioning parties wish to postpone the mandate of a new commission or a new anti-corruption organisation to a future. Instead of simply allowing this process to start again as soon as possible. And this date is totally acceptable to me. I'm sure it makes sense. Although we have heard that we do not trust the Court of Auditors, I have been working for a number of years with the Public Finance Supervisory Commission. You haven't heard from me that I don't trust the Court of Auditors. I trust the Court of Auditors. I am sure that this function, which has been carried out so far by the so-called Kosovo Commission, will be significantly better and in a short time. Above all, I am sure that citizens will have significantly less costs than we now have with this so-called Kosovo Commission. I do not support the amendment to Article 24, but I reiterate that it makes sense for the Commission to start working as soon as possible. Therefore, according to the proposal no later than 1.1.2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, I am surprised to hear some of the debates before me. So much more so because they deliberately ignore an important part that has been done in the field of job control by the Commission in the past to prevent corruption as an independent body. It has been established for this purpose. Because they are deliberately ignoring this important part, which has also been removed by the State Election Commission. I mean, I'm surprised we didn't hear more today, because in the past the word "nezzobi tiger" was very important. It surprises me, so much more, because we have found a reason to be a harmless tiger, it is said, an institution, an independent institution in our country, which does not have sufficient authority to effectively prosecute corruption, customerism, money laundering and anything else to simply shut it down. This authority has been closed, instead of giving this body more powers if it so wishes. And I'm so much more surprised, you know, because I'm listening to some speakers in front of me when they're criticizing this law - the law on the supervision of professional officials - simplistically said. When this law is merely a consequence of the 2005 law or event. At that time someone came and began waving in a loud voice with the proposal that the so-called Kosovo Commission should be abolished and the supervision of officials arranged in a different way. But, hand to heart, respectable colleagues and colleagues. If we knew the work, if we knew the agony that has been going on since 2005, then we would see who in this country or the National Assembly has a serious intention of doing something about preventing corruption. I personally say - yes, it's too small, just paperwork or paper war, too little. But at least it's better than nothing. This paperwork or paper war has also produced some results. Unfortunately, the authorities responsible for this - from the prosecutions forward, from the police forward, have reacted too slowly or not at all. I simply do not understand why a clear signal given by an independent body called the Commission to prevent corruption in our country is necessary to wait more than a year for the prosecution to react or to obtain from a state institution the papers that the prosecution has requested on the basis of a warning that there is a suspicion of corruption in some business. You know, that's the problem. But this problem is not solved by government law. No, no, no. The government law also limits the area that is relatively well regulated in our country for once. Last but not least, after our proposal for a law or regulation, they have invoked or, I will say, been taught by some who are in the process of approaching the European Union. Because we had an exemplary area of fighting corruption or preventing corruption. And I remember when budgets were adopted in the framework of the National Assembly. Let me also tell you this side of the story - what ignorance is on the side of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. There was not once a representative of the Ministry of Public Administration or the Ministry of Finance or any other government representative at a meeting of the committee where we discussed plans of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to fight corruption. Not once, respectable colleagues! Is this really a good road trip for us to, I don't know, regulate the area of corruption by means of a government proposal? Is this really a good way to get into a phase where we can say that the political hygiene of officials in this country is at such an enviable level that there is no corruption? But that's what you have to do at the top. At the top, we need to work and look at political hygiene. Court of Auditors, the Institute mentioned several times today. When the Secretary of State refers to the Court of Auditors, which will have so much and so much power under the new government law on the study of paperwork or because it will control the papers that we have to send to the new Court of Auditors. But this same government doesn't take into account the Court of Auditors' opinion. He doesn't take it into consideration today. The President of the Government did not respond to the Court of Auditors' call. This Court of Auditors will now have even more jurisdiction after the new one. Where is political hygiene, respected colleagues and colleagues? Corruption is happening, clienteleism is happening, nepotism is happening in our country. Crime is also happening in our country. But a new system of control over officials, reporting the property status of officials or the application of gifts, do not joke, respected colleague and colleague! This will not put an end to corruption in our country. Do you know how ridiculous the application system has already been to the Kosovo Commission because it's incomplete? But I'm asking, why don't we finish this system? We have been warning for more than two years, and the National Assembly also warns that the system is weak, incomplete, because it is only a black letter on a white paper sheet. But you, this system, I'll say, put "copy paste" in a new marriage. All the rest are nuances, respected colleagues and colleagues! I say we better support this amendment, which extends the deadline for the closure of an independent body. On the other hand, I would like to ask you again, or ask you to consider: What signal do we give to society, give to citizens and to citizens, what signal do we give not least to society as a whole but also to the EU? Some of you like to stand before the EU, but you do not respect or take into account the calls that come from the EU as well. It's corruption in our country. Public opinion does not favour this government move. Because the public, citizens and citizens are asking the Commission to prevent corruption, because it is the only body with some results. Of course, according to their powers, these powers are very limited. You know, even on the basis of the principled opinions of the anti-corruption commission, which also showed that corruption exists in the government line, this is also, in my opinion, a very good result or one of the important reasons why it is not possible to abolish an independent body called the anti-corruption commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Member Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u144	Thank you. In fact, I took the floor because I wanted to answer to the head of the SD Group. But because he didn't name me directly, I couldn't use the replica. In fact, he used the term “transference, ” and he actually used the subject that I had previously used. But here you need to know what it really is. If someone does not support an amendment that would prolong the validity or existence of an institution that has not proved to be actually effective in objectively measurable outcomes with anything concrete, then it is quite expensive, then, excuse me, this is not a misappropriation. I say that with all my responsibility. If, as an argument, once again, the only concrete success in the fight against corruption was the recent action against the so-called transitional tycoon, it is a fact known only by all Slovenia. And let me just add that I can only sincerely hope that this time a judge will not write a judgment so long that everything is absolutely obsolete or that any motion for a procedure will lie in the closet of any prosecutor, and then the court will give him a ruling in a few years' time, just as it was recently. And this, I say, is Slovenian national disgrace, which has happened and should probably be looked at about corruption first in Slovenian justice. I can only express it again as a fact. And my sincere hope, and that's not cheating. However, if someone advocates the extension of the existence of an institution that is quite expensive, but has proved to be ineffective, the same person in the role of Head of the SD Group at the same meeting of the National Assembly proposes the withdrawal of the Penal Code, which contains provisions on the tightening of the fight against corruption, which extends the notion of corruption to those acts resulting from the benefit of the situation and stifling the penalties for corrupt acts, that is to say harassment, colleagues and colleagues. And that's what I'm talking about!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm reopening the application circuit. Here you go, please! Comrade Paul, the word is yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u146	I, however, am a colleague of Grims - I will appoint him by name so that he can reply to the replica and I have time - I will not let go of his argument. His basic story is: "The justification of the amendment of the Zares Group is contrary to the text of the amendment itself." And he claims that by our argument we are proving in fact the opposite of what we would like. In view of the fact that the Kosovo Commission is not effective. And once again, the argument that we are proposing is consistent, logical and realistic, in fact, that the fact that the sensitivity to corruption has increased in Slovenia is probably even broader also means that our proposal, which would keep the Commission's functioning for more than a year, is consistent and correct. For Kosovo the Commission is one of the authorities, not the only one that contributes to the gradual development of an environment that will be less prone to corruption and, consequently, to corruption, which will come to the point where the police will have to start dealing with it. For then, as it is said, the acts are already done, and corruption is already here. We are particularly interested in how to make corruption as little as possible work before it comes to it. And that's what a whole series of measures are all about. This one should be used, too. But it is true that the Commission could have done less because it had to fight more for its existence because its leadership was not politically inappropriate. In this sense, I must say that our argument is consistent, logical. And I expect you to support him as well. Besides, I was listening to my colleague Jelinčič myself. He couldn't tell us why he was opposed to our amendment. But we're also taking this, I'd say, with "respekt" and knowledge, and that's a good reason to be against an amendment if you can actually say good, why you're against it. Once again, I would say that when it comes to thought and without need here, there are things that might not be good at this level to talk about, but I am not limiting anyone when you talk about pure shovel action, my dears, no complaints have yet been filed. There will be a lot more to be done to see whether this action has led to and whether it will lead to what you think it will, whether it will produce some unwanted effects or even reverse effects that can, I do not say, hit even those that have triggered the action in one way or another. We don't know, but let's be decent! We talk too much about this and believe and let the prosecutions, the police and the court know how to carry out the task without sermons coming from the ruling coalition, especially from the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Comrade Grimes, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u148	I don't know, because I don't see in the minds of my respected colleagues the part where this ended up. But I suppose it was about what I said, about the acquittal of prosecutors. And at that, colleague Gantar, I insist. The fact that someone had a cabinet full of files means that some people, some institutions, legal persons. In short, it has not been possible in this country that the right has been infringed in the deepest sense of the word. That's what it means. And that the court, after being accused by other prosecutors, was a colleague of the same person - believe that it was difficult for them to do so - that the court ruled that this was no crime. This is not a problem for Slovenia at all. Well, I'm sorry, I think it's a national disgrace to Slovenian justice. That's my personal opinion. Mr. Gantar, I respect your opinion. Please respect mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Comrade Paul Gantar, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u150	I'm discussing it as a debate because replication is not possible. Mr. Grimes, let's stop playing needlessly. You know exactly what my sentence referred to - the "Clean shovel" action you were talking about, and you set it as an example of the current fight against corruption. I just hope that's really what she's gonna do. And that was my intervention and my replica, nothing else. So don't push me or don't talk to me now. Don't go into another pool with lower water. Stay in the same pool. Don't go into another pool now and there chuffotat with other toys. For we were discussing a certain matter and no other matter. And don't avoid it now. Stay in the same ring or pool as you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow, on Tuesday, 22 April 2008, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATION OF NETHERLANDS, IN THE framework of the regular procedure. I'd like to inform you that we have two hours and 50 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to the government's representative. Secretary of State mag. Tinker Bell Zinrajh, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u152	Once again, hello! Thank you very much for your technical assistance. In short, I would like to present you with a proposal for a law on foreigners, or amendments that address the shortcomings of the current law on foreigners, which have in practice been shown mainly in the procedures for issuing visas and residence permits as necessary changes. The proposal for a visa law defines two new concepts, namely, a guarantee letter and a guarantee letter, and provides the basis for the establishment and maintenance of a new record of the guaranteed letters. Some data on the guarantor will also be kept in the new record. The data on the guarantee will be obtained by the competent visa authority under official obligations from official records maintained by other authorities. The guarantee will no longer need to be specially adapted. A new condition for issuing a visa is also laid down, namely the provision of travel health insurance. There are also livelihoods to be identified, which must also be provided by a foreigner who requests the issuance of a Slovenian or Schengen visa. The proposal for a new law regulates the possibility of a complaint against the refusal of the issuing of a visa. In order to provide information on foreigners involved in the integration programme, a legal basis has been laid down for the management of two new records. This is about the participation of a foreigner in Slovenian language courses and the participation of foreigners in courses of learning about Slovenian culture, history and constitutional arrangements. The shortcomings of the law, which have in practice been demonstrated in the process of granting temporary residence for reasons of employment or work, are further addressed. The new proposal provides that an application for a residence permit may also be submitted by a foreign employer, not just a foreigner, for reasons of employment or work. Because we think it's extremely important news. The application may also be lodged simultaneously with a request for a work permit, which is also the removal of a certain administrative barrier, as is now the case in practice. In particular, we want to reduce the duration of the procedure, which is also in the interest of Slovenian employers whose findings have been repeatedly exposed to the fact that the procedures for granting work permits and residence permits are "too complicated" and too long. In criminal provisions, the amount of the fine is newly fixed in euro. The height of the fine is also adjusted to the severity of the offence. As a result, fines that are not proportionate weights are, of course, increasing according to our proposal. Some penalties, now fines, i.e. former monetary penalties after terminology, have remained unchanged since the enforcement of the current Aliens Act of 1999 and, according to the proposaler, do not correspond to the gravity of the offence committed. Here, of course, we also did not follow some of the proposals, the amendments that were tabled before this reading. Because we believe that we have properly regulated criminal provisions. Of course, within the framework of the Offences Act and the Criminal Procedure Act or the Penal Code. The penal code, as you know, is in the process. It also contains certain provisions relating to this area. In conclusion, I would like to add that, given the small number of amendments tabled at this meeting, you should also have a third hearing, namely the adoption of the law. I also propose that you take the decision to draw up, as a result of the scope of the amendments, an official consolidated text of the proposed law, which your assembly would approve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. My friend Happy Hwauc has already joined us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At its 43rd meeting, on 9.4.2008, the Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on foreigners submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In the introductory supplementary explanation, the representative of the applicant said that the substantive substantive changes were related. The shortcomings which have been demonstrated in practice, in particular as regards the issue of visas and the issue of residence permits. In its opening remarks, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the comments made in their opinion were duly taken into account by the amendments of the coalition groups. The debate itself also strongly raised the question of the adequacy of the proposed sanctions for offences or their proportionality, both in terms of the serious offence committed and in terms of the income of citizens. The representative of the proposer explained on this issue that the proposed penalties were appropriate. They do not go beyond the penalties imposed by the last amendment to the Law on Offences. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 3, 5, 10, 15, 16, 18, 22, 23, 24, 33 and 34. However, it did not accept the amendment of the SNS Group of Members to Articles 27, 29 and 31. That is why the SNS Parliamentary Group withdrew the amendment for a new Article 27a and did not decide on the new Article 32a and the Committee on these proposals. However, he accepted two of his amendments, namely Article 27 and Article 31. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law incorporating the amendments adopted has been prepared. This complementary bill is also an integral part of this report. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I'll present the position of the Lip Group myself. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Therefore, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Foreigners Act is acceptable on the basis of an explanation as provided by the Secretary of State and as set out in the proposal for a law. So, on the basis of an explanation, it would be difficult to find an argument as to why to oppose that law. The fact is, at least in the context of the Lip Group, we lack some of the elements through which it is possible to make decisions of better quality. So, not solely on the basis of a dead letter on a piece of paper, but in order to obtain statistics by the Ministry of State not least or at least a few stories or, rather, facts suggesting the need to change the law that is before us today. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia thus notes in the introductory part of its law. I quote: "The aim of the bill is to determine the competence of individual ministries to implement assistance in the integration of foreigners, to ensure the conditions and programmes provided by the Republic of Slovenia to foreigners by providing security of residence which have not been determined so far and which has proved to be a drawback." Therefore, only the content of the descriptive concept indicated by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the context of its explanation, i.e. what has not been determined and the content of which are limitations or shortcomings. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall ensure that information about foreigners is provided in connection with the integration of foreigners. In the context of the Lipa Group, we would be pleased or pleased if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would define the bill with at least, not with the number of foreigners in the course of last year, in the framework of our country. This is how we adopt a law that does not indicate in its content either the quantity or the origin of foreigners within our country. From this title, we would like to see a law which, on a case-by-case basis, provides a substantive definition of the existing situation and indicates the actual need to amend the legislation in question. We also find it inconsistent, that is, one of those provisions which, within the framework of the law, speaks in connection with the guarantee letter. So where they are invited to a private or business visit to the Republic of Slovenia by foreigners. I quoted this part from the bill. From this title, of course, the question from the Lip Group: What is the relationship, i.e., a private or business visit by a foreigner and the provision by the State of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as funding by taxpayers of this private or secondary activity accompanying a private and business visit? Do I include the acquisition of public education or professional qualifications? According to our assessment, this is an under-delayed law contained in this title. So, a segment of a private or business visit to a foreigner. And then the ratings awarded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Whether a foreigner exercises or grants his or her entitlement. So I quote below between point 2.3. The main solutions, i.e. the Government's proposal: "To provide conditions and programmes for learning the Slovenian language." So is it someone who will visit, that we need to finance Slovenian language knowledge, familiarity with Slovenian history below and the educational system? However, I can say with certainty that it is precisely because of the lack of statistics that we are, to say the least, almost indignant about the assessment of the financial situation, the consequences that the law will bring, I quote the Government: "In order to establish a new register of guaranteed letters, it will be necessary to provide funding of almost half a million euros for 2008 according to the Government's proposal. For the integration of foreigners, it will be necessary to provide one whole and several million euros for the current year, and almost one million euros next year." I said from this address, he won't get the support of that law. However, we will not oppose him if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at least comes with numbers and substantiates its claims.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by fellow Member Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representative of the Ministry! At the outset, I would like to point out that the Aliens Act regulates their arrival. So, entry into our country, stay in our country and also leave Slovenia. This bill, which is under consideration, is based on the practical experience of the current legal text. In this particular area, if any, the situation is changing rapidly. Migration is extremely intense regardless of cause and form. Slovenia, on the other hand, is a member of the European Union. This area is practically regulated by each country in its own way. In some areas of migration, the European Union is trying to unify conditions. In implementing the current Foreign Act, certain shortcomings and administrative obstacles have been identified. However, the lack of workers for certain professions and the great difficulties of employers in obtaining appropriate staff have also been shown. The proposal amends certain provisions in the implementation of visas, in the issuance of visas. Because it will not be necessary for the carrier to obtain certain data and documents. So, at the request. But they will be able to do so, in fact, they will have to obtain diplomatic consular representations on their own. It's either introduction or respect for the principle, all in one place. And that the client is not obliged to search the data itself in the case of state databases. Certain records will also be established to simplify the procedure for foreigners. A new proposal for a law will either provide a basis for keeping records of the guarantee letters and for obtaining data on the guarantors from the official records when the law is adopted. This proposal redefines the notion of a guarantor who is a legal or natural person who guarantees a foreigner at the time of his stay in Slovenia. This letter, which will not have to be adapted to any documentation, will be registered with the administrative unit. An application for a residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia for reasons of employment or work may be submitted by an employer who will hire a foreigner and not only by a foreigner. He shall apply for a residence permit at the same time as an application for a work permit. All of this means a reduction in the duration of the whole procedure. One of the aims of the novel is also to determine the competence of individual ministries in the implementation of assistance for the integration of foreigners, which our country provides to foreigners with a residence permit and which have not been defined so far. And in the SDS Group, we believe that it is right to define that. Thus, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and Sport to provide the conditions for learning Slovenian language, knowledge of Slovenian culture and history. The tasks of the Ministry of Culture are also defined. The co-ordinator of the tasks relating to foreigners is the Ministry of the Interior, which also coordinates financial matters and provides conditions for information programmes related to the integration of foreigners into our country. In the area of visas and visa procedures, the aim is to clarify the conditions for issuing a visa, to regulate the records and to prevent the misuse of the visa procedures which have been shown in practice. There is also a possibility of a complaint in the visa procedure, which has not been possible so far. In the case of a permit for family reunification, the news is that within a one-year period of valid authorisation, which is a condition for the recognition of the right, the period of residence of a foreigner in the Republic of Slovenia is also considered on the basis of a certificate of application for extension or the issue of further temporary residence permits. In the SDS Group, we support the new proposal ahead of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Ambassador Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u159	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, The integration of foreigners is, by its definition, a two-way process that requires both the cooperation of the country and the foreign. The State and society are obliged to provide favourable conditions for the quality of life of immigrants, including the active prevention of discrimination, xenophobia and racism. On the other hand, effective integration requires the active cooperation of the immigrant. The Republic of Slovenia provides a wide range of opportunities for foreign integration as soon as possible. This is how Slovenian language courses, programmes for learning Slovenian history, culture and constitutional regulation are organised for foreigners. It is also possible to integrate into the educational system for obtaining public education or vocational qualifications. The proposed amendment lays down, inter alia, the specific powers between the ministries which intervene in these areas through their activities and programmes. The new law on foreigners defines two new concepts, namely a guarantee letter and a guarantee letter. At the same time, it provides a legal basis for the creation of a new register of guarantee letters. At the time of the visit, the guarantor will record a guarantee letter to the administrative unit which will enter the data into the record of the guarantee letters. These data will be made available to diplomatic and consular representations who will be able to obtain the remaining necessary information through links with other official records. It also allows the procedure for granting temporary residence permits to be simplified. Under the current regime, only the alien applied for authorisation. However, the novelty allows the employer to apply for a permit, thus comparing the regulatory procedure with that of the seasonal worker or so-called posted worker. A request may be lodged at the same time as an application for a work permit, which also means a reduction in the procedure. The law is also complementary to the regulation of sufficient means of subsistence. The possibility of a complaint in the event of a visa failure shall be introduced. However, the temporary residence permit for the purpose of family reunification may be granted or extended to minors and to the parents of minors up to and including the child of age. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposed solutions to the amendment of the law on foreigners are appropriate to bring in additions and changes that have proved necessary in practice. That is why we will support the proposed amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u161	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Your Honor! Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed amendments and additions to the law on foreigners. We believe that the law takes due account of the European guidelines which regulate all necessary for the proper integration of foreigners with education, by learning Slovenian language, by learning about Slovenian history, as well as Slovenian culture and our legal regulation. On the other hand, it corrects certain shortcomings. At the same time, it also provides for better records and penalties for infringements. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the applicant has duly set up such an arrangement that will facilitate the procedures for obtaining visas and residence permits for foreigners. In particular because it is certainly in the interest of Slovenian employers, where certain labour is lacking. For all those foreigners who already reside on the basis of residence permits in the Republic of Slovenia, this law provides conditions for their integration into cultural, economic and social life together with other citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The integration of foreigners into the educational system for obtaining public education or professional qualifications also improves the integration of foreigners. The law also eliminates certain shortcomings that have been demonstrated in practice in the procedures for granting residence permits in the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, it is intended to facilitate and speed up the procedures for granting a residence permit on grounds of employment or work and to facilitate the conditions for the recognition of the right to family reunification. It also seems appropriate for us to increase the fines prescribed for offences in order to reduce violations of the provisions of the law. The law also adequately regulates the keeping of records of the integration of foreigners into individual programmes. It introduces new records, as well as the need to coordinate the competent ministries, future provincial powers in the implementation of the programmes for foreigners and data on foreigners included in the integration programme. Finally, we believe that in Slovenia it is necessary to supplement the law on foreigners with international practice and legislation with provisions on the need to submit a guarantee letter to obtain visas for foreigners arriving in the Republic of Slovenia for a personal or business visit to prove the purpose of residence, accommodation and means of residence in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as for returning to the country of origin. We also support the arrangements for a staff member of the diplomatic and consular representation to obtain certain data on the guarantor under official responsibility through liaison with other official records. Therefore, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support these amendments to the law on foreigners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u163	Good-bye! I will talk about the part of the law that is really unacceptable to Members and Members of the Group. The law in this part, which I will talk more about later, expresses and further strengthens our claustrophobia to foreigners. He understands them as disturbances that could disrupt our peace. That is why he is doing everything possible to get as few Europeans as possible into Slovenia as possible. We don't want a stranger, we're all alone. And if anyone has to come to Slovenia, have them listed, registered, and set up a bail and some kind of guarantee sheet for him. Let our borders tighten as closely as possible. The law introduces the term "guarantee". So the one who will guarantee the head of a foreigner or a foreigner who wants to come to Slovenia with a guarantee letter. He will also have to vouch for the means of his return home. So, for whoever wants to come to Slovenia for lectures, seminars, excursions, visits, exhibitions, education and so on, it will not be enough to invite, but a guarantee letter. These are new conditions. A foreigner who wants to come to Slovenia from now on will have to have a travel health insurance - this is not now - and provide for livelihoods during his stay in Slovenia. The Guarantee Register also introduces control over persons, physical and legal, who will vouch for a foreigner. For the country will keep a list, a register, a record of everyone who will sign a guarantee letter, including information about a foreigner, as well as the information of the one who will vouch for foreigners. A foreigner who wants to come to Slovenia will have to make sure that he has sufficient means of survival. The amount of these resources will be determined by Mr Rupel. The biggest farce, however, is that the Government cites its proposals, explanations in this part by saying that it is a matter of facilitating and expediting the procedures for issuing visas and permits. Yes, of course, lighter already. But in a way that puts so many obstacles or too many rigorous conditions that people will no longer come to us because the procedures for obtaining conditions will be complicated and rigorous. But people won't want to risk and issue a guarantee letter for them. This philosophy comes from beneath me, that foreigners may have bad intentions and that they are questionable if not speculators. Let's see what the guarantor will have to guarantee in case. He will have to guarantee to cover all costs of staying abroad in Slovenia, sleeping, food, transport and so on, for the costs of returning a foreigner home or accommodation in a foreign centre or in an asylum home and also the costs of removing a foreigner from the country. The guarantor will have to record the guarantee letter on the administrative unit where the foreign files will be kept. Which of the natural and legal persons, I ask you, will want to go to a register where everyone can search and use it when it suits them? People will just be afraid. Not only will they be misled into such a record, but they will take on the very vague costs. How can a foreigner or a foreigner come to the country quickly, immediately, for example, to visit his relative, a sick, dying acquaintance, a relative, because he will not receive a travel insurance certificate overnight, for example, if I give just one example? And what's the price for such insurance? You've looked. It's not small. It must not be less than 30 000 euros. In the end, I have to warn you. No directive, recommendation or directive of the European Union is forcing us into this repression that I have been talking about. Only claustrophobia and the Slovenes have their own mistrust for others. In short, in fact, we oppose the work that introduces the news that we understand as rigorous and as those who actually repeat it repeatedly, not out loud or present, but certainly the presence of a mantra: we do not want a foreign one.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have already heard - and it will probably be later so - very different assessments of what marriage brings, how to enjoy it or how to fear it, which is probably also completely understandable. For the Foreigners Act regulates relations in society, in one of the more sensitive areas. Most important of all is what optics we look at and look at strangers by identifying yet unknown friends. This would be the best option, and of course there is no denying that it is also possible among foreigners, even among those, as I said, still unknown friends, to run into those who may cause disturbances in the functioning of their environment, so that they do not use any harder words in this regard. Earlier, in the previous amendment of the law on foreigners, on asylum and similar laws, there was a considerable amount of this, a somewhat restrictive attitude of the current power. We could say that this compassion for foreigners certainly exists between us. Not only among those who are in Parliament or in Government, but also among people in their daily lives. But after learning about the government, according to its experience, after the weaknesses it has recorded, this former arrangement has also led to some changes now being proposed. There is no point in repeating them all, since they have been repeated several times today. However, we in the DeSUS Group feel that there are certain areas of improvement, of warming, and of continuing to be somewhat observant, suspicious of foreigners in certain areas. When we weighed what was more, what to support, we decided to support the marriage. Because it does bring some good, positive solutions. These good, positive solutions will also be for foreigners, for job seekers. They'll be for those who hire them. So, for the employers. They will, of course, be for the families of those who have found work with us. Some changes have also been made to facilitate the work of the State or the administrative authorities. It is about trying to ensure as easily and as effectively as possible the social integration of foreigners into our environment. It is also about helping them with the resources, domestically and in Europe acquired. In the DeSUS Group, we think that's the right thing to do. This is also a response to changed circumstances. Among other things, because the situation is changing as far as our development is concerned, as far as demographics are concerned, as far as development potentials are concerned, and as far as structural unemployment is concerned, which is more than obvious for us. In a few years or two, we'll probably hear again about changes to the foreign law. There may be other weaknesses that will need to be addressed. By then, it may be evident that some of the solutions we are now talking about are pretenses, prejudices, and will need to be corrected. In general, however, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that this is a matter of positive change. That is why we will support this amendment and the amendment of the law on foreigners.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by the Member of the winner, Mr Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u167	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Well, we will, of course, support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on foreigners. Despite the fact that he is essentially too gentle for strangers. We are not in favour of coming, I do not know what integration of the great crowd of foreigners in Slovenia. And like someone said, we'd help them out with our own resources. After all, we think it is important to offer assistance to our citizens and citizens with our money. But not to throw money out the window for some foreigners, for whom we don't even know who they are, what they are, why they are, and where they come from. As an example, the Chinese, who had been in Trieste until recently, from where the Italians had exiled them, settled in Séžana. They're in Sezhana all over China. As we know, no one ever dies from the Chinese. We always have some new Chinese. It's growing, it's multiplying. Of course, our country has not done anything yet. So one wonders what our inspection services do. Except they're thinking about their welfare. I think that this simplification of obtaining temporary work permits is also questionable. Temporary work is now being obtained in Slovenia without the knowledge of Slovenian. Now people get temporary jobs because they either have connections at some office or relationships at some other position. But they're coming in. They don't know the language, but no one controls it. It hasn't happened yet that I've heard some sort of inspection come to some place and say, "Please show me your permission now." We know how it happened in Slovenia with this flow and the inflow of foreigners. It must be said that a few tens of thousands of foreigners come to Slovenia annually, which we do not even have registered to a large extent. Therefore, I do not know how it is possible to introduce into this law the possibility of a complaint against the refusal of a visa. I mean, go take a look in Switzerland, go look elsewhere in Europe, and you'll see what it's like to refuse a visa. Look in Italy what they do when they have these foreigners. Simply when they're doing problems, they get them on a plane and they send them to where they came from. As many as a few hundred Romanians sent the Italians back to Romania. Despite the fact that they are citizens of the so-called endlessly beautiful common country of the European Union. I think it's about time we started taking care of ourselves. But it's not like we're here to make it easier for everyone else to be allowed to stay because of family reunification. These family mergers drive new and new and new foreigners to Slovenia, who stay here and never return. As a rule, they are people with low education or no education, and it does not happen that this would be a cardiologist or anything like that or a specialist in thoracic surgery who would come here and bring his family, which would be two graduates of the medical faculty, but usually this is a construction worker who brings three more women, six children, uncles, aunts and all in numbers there between 150 and 172. We are therefore proposing several amendments in the Slovenian National Party to increase fines for certain actions, in accordance with the proportionality of the act for which these fines are prescribed. The fines are now such, minimal, that everyone is paid to play a role and keep a stranger here at work. However, if he has connections to the inspection, it is likely that this can be arranged in a different way. At least the facts show that it is. However, we are also introducing a new penalty of imprisonment, in accordance with or in line with the new Penal Code, which is being dealt with here today, and I think that this penalty will be even worse when it is done by a public official in the performance of his duties. Well, but later on, we'll talk about the amendments. We basically support the law, of course, although with the sad conclusion that the law still has too much thought about foreigners and too little about our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u168	Thank you, too. We have ended by presenting the views of the groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 18.4. I am thus putting to the debate Article 27 and the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the procedure. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u169	Thank you very much. In this case, it is about raising the stakes, which are aligned both with Slovenia's current position in the European Union and also by taking into account inflation, which is also not at peace in Europe. We have therefore proposed that the offence be punishable by a legal person or a self-employed craftsman who brings foreign nationals across the state border or Slovenia, however, without the corresponding documents with a fine of 8,600 to 15,200 euros. The person responsible for the offence shall also be punished. It should be known that when they brought foreigners here from Macedonia, for example, certain people at our official institutions were also cashed many years ago, in the previous millennium, about a thousand to two thousand marks for every person who received this work permit. No one's been punished. Some of the gentlemen or ladies who were in the civil service, however, have recovered very much. I think it's high time these things were settled in such a way that the fines would rise. Of course, we still have here, it's six indents that raise these fines, and I hope that these fines will also be adopted. After all, if anyone wants to do a fair job, do a fair job, then he will not have to pay the fine. However, if he intends to cheat, he is right to be severely punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u170	Anybody else want to discuss this? Messenger Shirtz, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u171	Thank you very much. In the light of the Rule of Law's warning, I expect the Government to clarify or agree with the position that has already been expressed more than clearly on the Legislative and Legal Committee of the National Assembly, which has warned that such provisions as this amendment or this article, from a legal and systemic point of view, are controversial, since, contrary to the principle of consistency as one of the principles of the rule of law and also of the Constitution, it also speaks of a derogation from the established system of sanctions for offences, that sanctions are already criminalized in criminal law, after which they apply and those which you will send to life, unfortunately. In short, a criminal offence against the prohibition of crossing the border has already been established. I want the Government to express itself, or also agree with the so-called tenfold increase in punishment. We know that in the previous law, this article was sanctioned by money ranging from 850,000 to a million and a half tolars. Now we have a proposal that would define the fine from 8,600 euros to 15,200 euros. But what I would warn - I would particularly like to draw attention to the proposal to amend this article in the fifth and sixth paragraphs, which speaks of this fine being fined in the fifth indent of EUR 100,000, and in the sixth indent of EUR 50,000, touching the one named in 19b. Article 1(2) 19b. The article speaks of a guaranteed letter. I also spoke about the guarantee letter earlier in the presentation of the views of the parliamentary group and the obligations that those who will guarantee by way of a guarantee letter for a foreigner who will come to Slovenia will have in the country. That is to say, the guarantor will have to guarantee a foreigner in order to ensure accommodation, insurance, removal, the costs of this and those that have been mentioned and are few and, if these costs are incurred by this person, the legal or physical person providing the guarantee letter will not be settled in a timely manner, the Slovenian national parties consider it necessary to deepen it by EUR 50,000 and EUR 100,000. The rejection of repression, as suggested here, has its own message value. In explaining the opinion of the Group, I have indeed stressed that this claustrophobia, which comes with this law with greater reprisals, is not in place, we also do not agree with the increase in the penalties imposed on people who will have to vouch for foreigners and foreigners arriving in Slovenia in the future. And another punishment for those who are to be sanctioned, as proposed by the amendment, does not seem reasonable to us, and this intolerance and observation of foreigners in Slovenia, through the eyes of those who are worthy of some mistrust, who are already almost criminals and it is better to remain criminals, and it is better to stay where they are and not to disturb our peace, that seems to me not good for an open society, a society which, however, has already been said, stresses the need for intercultural dialogue and mutual co-existence, especially this year. We are opposed to such an amendment. Sanctions for people who will be recorded on administrative units in lists, files, when they only guarantee, by increasing their range of safeguards and then by threatening that if they don't do all this, they'll be covered for that sum, I think some message is so clear, stay where you are, because we don't need you here.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u172	Thank you very much. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Yes, that is exactly what Mrs. Shirca, such people who will go to Slovenia to do cows and crimes, we do not need them; if you need them, take them home and keep them at home, and "further" them at your expense, not at the expense of taxpayers. And why we introduced the 5th and 6th points - just to prevent the abuse of the guarantee letters. For he who does not want to cheat will not have to pay anything because he will respect the law and obey the law. And you're encouraging people to cheat! You encourage them, not to stick to it, but because you don't know otherwise, you want to destroy it at the marriage level -- so that it works as far as it's actually done for a long time. You're talking about the dispute. What a dispute! The state has the right to punish someone who is not its own and who comes to disrupt the internal order and structure of the state. I know you're more into a lot of other people than your own citizens, and I'm not. And in the Slovenian National Party, we want to have order and order in our country. If you like the tie and the mess better, I can understand why. But the twelve years of your reign were enough to show where this cow came from; indeed, it has not been cleaned up in four years, which is a major mistake, but at least it is working on making arrangements. You say, the principle of consistency. What principle of consistency? [[The ad in the hall.]] Yeah, that's what you said. That's what you quoted, what it says in there, but I'm answering -- you said here, I'm answering you. What principle of consistency? We're going to adopt a new Penal Code or amendment, and it's right, all the penalties are getting higher. But you probably want to give them another reward for something like this, so that they can come here and do what seems to them. When we go abroad and when, say, others ask us to write down certain things, even fingerprints require, it doesn't bother you, because you bend your back there and look carefully from the bottom up if they're going to pat you on the back. When strangers come to us, they're fine, but they're allowed. I think that's extremely irresponsible to my own country. I call it home country, what you call it -- I don't know, because given how you talk about intercultural dialogue and how you talk about open society, then I don't know where you live. Or go there during an open society for intercultural dialogue. Africa is still full of this place where you can go. For the intercultural dialogue also went to those immigrants in Austria dressed as police when they were looting on the highway. And what happened in this intercultural dialogue? One of them got shot, two of them got locked up. You'd probably give them prizes and some of the other things I know, a retirement institute would give them some flair around their necks. I mean, it's sad that in the country we have this attitude towards our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u174	Thank you. Anyone else in contact with the government will be in the end, so don't worry about it, Comrade Shirca. [[...]] Any other Members and Members? No, no, no. Then the Secretary of State signed up, Mag. Zinrajh, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. See, at Article 27, it is necessary to say that in our view the draft law already sets an appropriate amount of fine, including for the carrier and his responsible person, in particular in the event that the said fine also punishes him for each alien brought forward separately. With regard to the amendment and the proposed sentence of imprisonment, we believe that it is somehow contrary to the Offences Act. The Law-Legal Service is also kind of the same opinion here, because somehow we feel that you cannot prescribe a fine in this law if it does not exist and, of course, the sanctions of prison, because the Offences Act somehow does not allow it. However, the actions set out in paragraph 3 and 4 of this amendment are in fact already criminalised under the applicable criminal law, including the new proposed Penal Code, which is in the parliamentary procedure as you know, also consumes these offences. With regard to the guarantor, we believe that the amended bill redefines that a guarantor who fails to fulfil his obligations as a guarantor is also liable to be punished for the offence and that, according to our assessment, the proposed fine is also appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Can we close the discussion in connection with Article 27? Thank you. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate related to Article 27 and the amendment mentioned above. However, I am putting to the debate article 31 and the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want a word? I'm opening the procedure. Please report. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u177	Thank you very much. This article also deals with the raising of penalties. Because in the current bill, penalties are too kind, in fact, in the current bill, they are only for the translation of 100,000 tolars into 500 euros and 240 thousand tolars into 1,200 euros. We raise this penalty to €3,500 to €4,900, because we think it makes sense to raise this threshold. The law must take account of the actual situation, and in this case this law does not take into account the actual situation in the Republic of Slovenia, but only draws it forward, the situation as it is, so I believe that these fines are substantially too low. For such fines, many are paid to "stragger" foreigners across the border, for if they get it, they pay that "jury", and he has peace. I'm sure he'll think twice as much about how much longer he'll be. And I think it makes sense for the punishments to increase. Unless it matters to our country, and only to the police to deepen their own people, because the maximum penalty is for someone who allows or helps or tries to enable and so on, a foreigner to enter, travel in transit or reside in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, contrary to paragraph 1 or 2a. Article, this penalty is less than one traffic offence, which goes some 30 kilometres too fast along the highway. Please, what are we doing here? I don't understand. Do these laws make you one, what do I know of the privates of Murska Sobota one marriage, and the private person from Izola the other marriage or what? Or you don't know how to harmonise yourself, but a little bit to consider that one traffic offence is probably a little less, I'd say, worth the penalty, but one such act. There's no consistency, and the police don't seem to know what the right hand is doing. But I don't mean the left-hand political option from the right-hand side, but the left-hand side of the right-hand side. That's totally pointless. Such a low sentence, in fact, that it's shameful. And I think it's about time these things were fixed. The government has plenty of time to change that. Magari, to accept our suggestions, let him correct it, because, once again, compared to the road safety law, this law that we have here, this amendment of the law on foreigners, is shameful. That's what they say, we subsidize and help crime, but in traffic, we're going to wreck it, just like now that the cops, because it's snowed once, have gone deep in broad Slovenia because people didn't have winter tires. And if he didn't have 400 or a few euros with him, they had to pay. 400 euros because he didn't have any winter tires. But here, when foreigners drive across Slovenia, they will pay 500 euros. So you'll pay more for the crime than for almost a crime. Shame!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u178	Secretary of State, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your comment, honourable Member. An amendment has already been adopted on the Committee, which has increased these sanctions. While we have proposed a range of EUR 2,000 to EUR 4,500 in the first paragraph, in the second paragraph we have even slightly raised this amount of yours. If we balance up a little bit, I think we've just taken your comments into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided tomorrow in accordance with the timing of the meeting, i.e. on Tuesday 22 April in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the day-to-day basis, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on personal property, the short-term procedure. We have 55 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior, Mag. Bell Zinrajhu for the opening presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on the identity card, on which a citizen can choose between a identity card with a so-called chip, and between a normal or classic identity card without a chip. A qualified digital certificate of the State verifier will be recorded on the ID card chip, setting the age limit for obtaining a qualified certificate at the age of 15 years and, or a health insurance certificate that is also used on the new card of the current health insurance. The utility of the ID card with the chip will increase according to our estimate, as it will also be possible to use it for electronic administration services, with a visit to a doctor, dentist, pharmacy and so on. In this regard, it should be pointed out that no sensitive health data will be recorded on the new ID card, which has been debated all the time during the law-making period and on the home committee. If a citizen decides on such a type of ID card that can be used in health care, only the number of the insured person will be recorded on the identity card and only the information on whether the citizen is insured or not will be kept in the identity card record. Slovenian citizens outside our borders will also be entitled to a ID card at the time of possible loss, error, theft and so on will no longer be required to withdraw their identity card in the Official Journal. This will reduce the cost of issuing a new ID card, and savings will also be, according to our estimate, in issuing the card. With a view to repealing the proposal, the law provides the basis for establishing a publicly accessible part of the missing and so on, the cards on which the serial number data will be published, the date of issue, the validity and the declaration of the missing or stolen identity card, and not the personal data of its holder. It is easier to regulate the service of identity cards for children, as this has led to significant difficulties in practice. Such a identity card may be served by a new legal representative who has submitted an application for its issue or by another representative, provided that the application has already been lodged. A personal card may also be served to a minor aged at least 15 years if the legal representative does not object. At the request of the information officer, the draft law shall include provisions on the copying of the identity card whereby the controller of the personal dataset is allowed to copy the identity cards only where the law so provides. This allows them to copy identity cards: notaries, financial companies providing services under the Banking Act. Copy of the identity card shall also be permitted on the basis of written consent of the holder. The bill is without prejudice to copying for private use, which is already permitted. In preparing the proposal, the applicant sought to regulate the issue of personal cards, which would be more favourable to citizens and, on the other hand, to sanction individual behaviours, and to include provisions relating to the copying of the identity card, as the most widely distributed identification document against possible abuses, and, on the other hand, according to our assessment, retains the credibility it has achieved during these years in the world. The transitional provisions also regulate the continuation of the current identity cards, of course until the expiry of the validity for which they have been issued. A citizen will be able to apply for a ID card if he so wishes. The proposal also considers that the solutions presented are appropriate do not constitute an attack on individual privacy and the right to protection of personal data and we therefore propose that the proposal be adopted. I also propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision to draw up a formal consolidated text, which would be endorsed by the Assembly, in view of the scope of the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I ask Vice-President Happy Hwauca to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! At its 43rd meeting, on 9.4.2008, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Identity Card submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration, with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of the law tabled under the reduced procedure. As material, we have also received a written opinion from members and members of the Committee from the Legal and Legislative Service, which shows that they have in particular concerns about the risk of pooling personal data on one document. They also point out that, while it is true that the solution is somewhat favoured by a citizen being able to decide for himself on such a charter. In this opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service made comments on the 11 articles of the bill. The Committee also received comments from the information officer of 15.2.2008 and 12.3.2008. The amendment was tabled by Mr Lovtijar Bebler and the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. In the introduction, the representative of the proposer further explained the solutions set out in the individual articles, which I would not repeat because we had listened to this earlier. I would point out, however, that the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, in an additional presentation of the opinion of the Service, drew attention to the general comments already mentioned and to the nature of its specific comments to individual articles which are either of a nomotechnical nature or are given in order to improve or increase data protection. According to the Legislative and Legal Service, the first set of comments with the amendments tabled has been fully taken into account and, as for the second set, further consideration of individual solutions is proposed. The representative of the information officer expressed, in particular, concerns about the protection of personal data because of the merger of EMSOs, the tax number and the health insurance number. They believe that this integration of databases requires more consideration, as this increases the possibility of their abuse. While the authorising officer does not in principle object to any merger of personal documents, the legislator calls for further consideration of the proposed legal solutions, as already mentioned, in particular with regard to the protection of personal data. In the debate on amendments, too, the biggest dilemma was the protection of personal data, but according to the majority opinion, the bill brings good solutions, that there is no complete data protection and that abuses are always possible, but that these changes also bring benefits, particularly in order to bring together more cards in a single document, which makes life easier for users and thus reduces the cost of recording data by different authorities. In this area, however, progress needs to be followed. However, the system needs to be adequately protected, which also enables technological development or solutions. However, it is important not to overlook the fact that the existing medical certificate already has certain shortcomings and can be abused, which is confirmed by the fact that there is no 100% protection in this area. Otherwise, in accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee decided on amendments. He accepted the amendments of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS by Articles 2, 4, 6, 8, 9, 13, 14, 18, 17, 22, 23, 24 and 25, but did not accept the amendments by Mr Lovtijar Bebler. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Comrade Srečko Hvauc, please also present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u185	Thank you very much again for your word. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the solutions provided by this proposal. This also supports the possibility of combining a identity card and a health card on one document. We believe that such a solution is practical, modern, expanding the business opportunities of the E-government and at a time when we have more and more of these cards, it means such integration, I think, a more friendly solution for all users. The evidence that this decision on the possibility of merging the two documents is fast or hasty and that there is no need for legislation to be adopted after a reduced procedure is not accepted. It is necessary to say that the validity of the current identity cards expires and in the short term a large number of citizens will have to replace these cards. And if we want changes in this area, then it makes sense, it is wise to arrange it in such a time that those who will have to change their cards will not have to do so twice or in a very short time. As far as I'm concerned, there's evidence of an abuse of personal data. There's always this possibility. There is no 100% protection, there is no greater protection, but in our opinion the solutions brought by this law are good enough, at a time suitable for as little or almost nothing as possible to be abused. If I mention that there is an existing card that does not have an image, I am talking about a health card that does not have an image, and I am talking about a health card that does not have an image, which offers opportunities for abuse. These will be reduced by this single card. It is also important that more information on the holder is still available on the existing health certificate than will be found on the new combined card. And what's more, with this data they're not going to be able to operate or have a look at all of them, I don't know the officials who are going to meet these documents, but this access to these data is actually going to be very limited, and it's not going to be some kind of pooling of these databases, but it's simply going to be possible approaches to different databases. From this point of view, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party believe that the solution is as good as envisaged, that it also provides an appropriate level of security for personal data and that we will support the law. Of course, it is necessary to stress once again that citizens and citizens will be able to voluntarily decide on such a form of card. If anyone has doubts that this could result in the abuse of his personal data, then he simply will not make such a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats, from the very beginning, when the proposed law has been introduced into the legislative procedure and even after a reduced procedure, for which we believe it has not met the business conditions, we oppose the main proposed solution. This is the pooling of several of the most important personal data of an individual on a single identification document. Such a pooling of personal data on the same document allows for cross-linking of relevant records and an overview of non-authorised personal data which are not necessary or necessary for the specific procedure in which the holder of the identity card is involved. The fact that a citizen can decide to make an application for a identity card with a chip containing all this data, although some of them in cryptographically protected form, does not change the actual situation that abuses will certainly be possible. More. In spite of our good faith, a system error will be built into the identity card that will allow abuse. This fact alone is more than sufficient reason for us to oppose such a identity card. It is also very appropriate to warn the information officer about the admissibility of copying a ID card, including in the case of written consent of the holders of the ID card, because such an arrangement destroys the proposed legal restriction on copying of identity cards. We are also convinced that in practice there will be conditionalisation on the provision of different services in the private sector by copying identity cards. It is clear that the applicant with a new ID card is in a very hurry, although it is not yet clear which data it will contain at all, the applicant does not take into account that preparations are already under way for a new medical card, which has already cost a lot of money from the health register. The applicant also said that he had already published a public invitation to tender for tenderers to produce a new identity card, although no decision had been made on what would be the identity card at all, whose personal data would contain, how this data would be protected and so on. Not to mention that the new identity card will cost very much and that someone who is a friendly candidate will make a lot of money. At the beginning of this mandate, the Minister of the Interior was very pleased to say that he had abolished the car stickers and had saved the taxpayer a lot of money. Well, now we'll get the vines, but only temporarily. Then we will switch to electronic tolling and the country will be given a review of where the particular vehicle or the specific driver is at a particular moment. So, another personal information more. In the Social Democrats Group, we oppose the proposed new ID card because there is a whole range of uncertainties and dangers in the use of EMSOs, tax numbers and health cards as unique identifiers combined on one multi-function ID card. And why should a new ID be introduced in the first place? The applicant says that the underlying reason is an increasing range of services of the so-called e-government offered to citizens on the e-government portal and it is therefore appropriate to include a qualified digital certificate on the ID card. Where the applicant then imposes a solution to include all other relevant personal data on this identity card, thereby systematically incorporating the possibility of abuse. It is clear that this Government is still in a great hurry to establish in this mandate all the necessary foundations for the establishment of the Orwell Society or the State; the question of what is the whole point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Zupan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We received a new form of identity cards in the Republic of Slovenia in 1998. The then paper identity cards with a stickerd personal photo were replaced by a lower-format polycarbonate card and better resistance. The same thing happened with a health card. In those days, have we considered how our personal data could be misused when we were estranged from both documents? Fear of misuse of personal data has begun to increase with the development of information technology, and often this fear of omnipotence is exaggerated. We believe that systems are as safe as planners do and as much as they are responsible for doing so. Despite the possibility of intrusion, which of course exists, sometimes data in classical paper form are much more exposed. We probably never ask ourselves at the time of the general doctor’s visit how long our medical records go through and how many people can read the data on the first page before actually getting it into the hands of our personal doctor, who is the only person in charge of observation. In view of the increasing number of eGovernment services, it is appropriate to increase the accessibility of these services to citizens. The acquisition of a digital certificate, which currently requires some skills, would already be included on the ID card itself in the proposal for a new law on identity cards. The chip that will be inserted into the card will also be separately embedded in a health certificate, which will only allow access to the electronic health record by the physician, together with the simultaneous use of the smart card, and no sensitive data will be recorded on the card itself as previously. By recording the health insurance number, it will only be possible to check whether the person is insured or not. Both registers will not be merged, nor will linked access be enabled. The combined ID card will be available to the elderly over 15 years of age, but the decision of each individual remains either to switch to a new system or to maintain both cards. The aspect of volunteering is a particularly important argument, as the state does not force anyone to switch. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the fear of misuse of data that will be embedded in the ID card chip is unfounded. The new ID card will certainly be more useful, as it will be possible to use it as an identification and travel document, for e-government services and when visiting a doctor. In doing so, let us stress that the card will be safer than the current health care card, since it will also prevent potential abuse by photographing the holder. Documents based on the use of digital certificates and smart cards, if properly executed, are probably one of the best means of protecting identity. The system must be carefully planned and the accumulation of certificates does not increase safety. Whether to have multiple cards or just one is a question. If this proposed card could still have a driver's license, it would probably be a much more welcome change for many, and for some it would pose an even greater threat. We believe that a great deal of awareness is needed regarding the risk of pooling personal data, which also requires cross-linking of relevant records. To consider, on the other hand, the possibility offered by the bill for the so-called electronic identity card with a qualified digital certificate and to extend the utility of the ID card to the enforcement of health services, as well as the increasing potential for services of the so-called e-government, which is available to us and will be available to us in the future. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the amendment of the law on the ID card. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by a colleague, Josip Bajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that in such a sensitive document containing personal data of citizens, it is necessary to be extremely careful to take into account both the opinion of the legal profession and, last but not least, the information agents. In such an important and sensitive document, in our view, we should not merely think about simplifications and technological progress in this area. The bill allows citizens to decide on a ID card with or without a chip. The identity card chip will record a qualified digital certificate from the State verifier. The utility of the ID card with the chip will also be extended to eGovernment settings and to the enforcement of healthcare and health insurance services. However, no sensitive data should be recorded on the identity card. The proposed solutions in the law also concern the regulation of the validity of the ID card, the alignment with the validity of the passport, the extension of the right to obtain a ID card to Slovenian nationals with permanent residence outside the country's borders, changes in the conduct of the loss, loss or theft of the identity card. For more detailed arrangements for the service of identity cards to children, for the arrangements for the copying of identity cards, for the submission of a photograph and questions concerning the validity of existing identity cards. As amendments to Articles 2, 4, 6, 8, 9, 13, 14, 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 and 25 of the draft law have been adopted on the home working body, we assess that the relevant answers to the doubts of both the legal profession and the information agents have been given. And since these amendments are embedded in the basic text that we are considering, we will support the bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Comrade Paula Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u193	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on identity cards, but I stress this in particular, not because of the prevailing opinion that the electronic identity card could constitute an increased intervention in privacy. It can be, but it's not necessary. In this regard, I must say that we already have a digital central register of the population. We have a register of taxpayers in digital form. We have a register of health professionals that's digital. We also have a number of other registers, which are digital and therefore of course, and they are maintained in digital and electronic form and can be accessed electronically or digitally. It is therefore absolutely certain that sooner or later, we must also arrange for citizens and citizens such a personal identification document, which will also meet the conditions of the digital period and the fact that all these data and registers are digitally recorded. Sometimes it's said that there's an increased intervention in privacy and talk, I don't know that the poorly protected files are all over the hospitals, the bulky medical records on the highways. But everyone forgets that these are analog documents. That they were lost, lost, alienated analog documents, not actually electronic documents. Finally, if it is, I think the State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration has stated that this digital ID card will be as safe as a health card today. I'm asking him, how safe is the current medical card anyway? Why, then, do we still object? In particular, because the transition and transition from analogue to digital form of the document must be carried out in a much more professional way, much more serious and much more consistent. I remember the former minister in the cabinet of the Prime Minister of Great Britain Tony Blair, and I forgot the name of certain applications of the public administration that digitized themselves gave them a comparison. So he said, "That's about as good as wearing a pig in a wedding dress." I'm sorry about the case. That's exactly what this is about. In fact, they have not changed procedures or the logic of digital behaviour. But we simply changed the analogue form into a digital form by multiplying different identifiers on this map. Just like, I don't know, emsha, then tax, I don't know, health insurance and so on. From this point of view, it is only a card in which, instead of one paper or one document, all other identifiers are recorded. It can, but it has nothing to do with data integration. The connection of the data is happening in the databases can and is already happening today. If you change your permanent residence, it will directly be credited to you from the central register of residents in, I don't know, the tax register and that is undoubtedly good. You don't like changing permanent dwellings in 15 places, and so on. The problem is that the problem with this digital identity card is not how many identifiers are on the document. There's got to be as few as possible. In fact, it's just a qualified digital certificate. In the back, however, a website with clearly defined rules of the game of access, restrictions, closures and also transparency that allows or makes it impossible to connect data. A staff member of the Tax Administration can enter, access your tax register if he is authorised, but he cannot access your health data and so on if this is not specified anywhere and so on. And that is, today we actually have, today only those who have sold this app will earn it. This app is too old, irrelevant, irrelevant, and changes are also meaningless. If we want to be serious, we should talk about more serious things, especially how we need to organise back-to-back databases, so that access via a single digitally qualified certificate and that these databases will also be adequately protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u195	Thank you. Well, at first glance, it was clear that the most attention was focused on this personal data. However, in order to relativize this problem a little bit, I will provide some statistics. Above all, I think we may be devoting more attention to this in Parliament, as well as in some other circles, than people in their daily lives, because in 2007 13,390 identity cards would not have been lost or stolen. In the same year, 6,767 were stolen and 25,968 medical certificates were lost. And when we compare this data with 2001, we find that the trend is stolen and lost in growth. Why am I even talking about this? Because it may be important to stress that, even with better protection, we have not yet done anything to ensure that people themselves are aware of the importance of these documents, to have a different culture in this area, and to have a different culture of self-protection of these data and to ourselves through these data. In the DeSUS Group we will not oppose, in fact we will support these proposed amendments and legislative additions. We do not see any dramatic change in the concept, but it is some improvement attempts that are not all equally happy. As far as professional readiness is concerned, we also believe that it would be okay if this preparation were longer if it were not adopted after a reduced procedure, because nothing obliges us to obtain new identity cards when the conditions for the validity of those first issued ID cards expire; this is not a mandatory document; some will do so, some will not, but we are not committed to it. So it might be possible to think even more carefully and possibly put off a little bit, perhaps even in this way to remedy some flaws. The second thing that was important for the applicant is the criterion of efficiency, efficiency, the usefulness of these documents, which will certainly prove justified, but there is also a much greater possibility of unauthorised, misused use of these documents, as we speak of, of the identity card with the chip. So the main conflict goes somehow on this level whether we are protected enough or not. But it will certainly be among the people, I believe that, among the majority, it will be well accepted that they will be burdened, not only with documents, but also with a number of information that they must carry behind them, because we are still being shot with information every day and every moment. So it's becoming one of the main burdens for us, which we also feel mentally. This doubt about whether it will be abused or not will remain. We hope, in the DeSUS Group, that the benefits that are promised will be greater, however, to facilitate certain procedures for people, including those assessed as possible in the future, for example, that a vote or election may be carried out on such a personal card, which is not the most favoured older generation that is likely to benefit significantly less. But that is why we in the Dessus Group will not object. We therefore consider that the law or that the changes and additions to the law are prepared in such a way that we can support them, but we also need to pay attention in the future to the experiences that will be available and, therefore, to protect personal data more if that is the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by the winner, Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. A personal card such as it is now is indeed a very little useful document. It is therefore appropriate to upgrade the identity card but to upgrade it with what is in line with technological development. That's what you say, not with a chip embedded in it. We have laser technology that really makes it possible to provide security and, above all, a significantly greater possibility of storing data on a ID card. A card with an embedded chip is actually a very vulnerable instrument. True, we can use it in a dentist, a doctor, a pharmacy, and anywhere else, but this does not mean that we are more healthy or safe. Security is very questionable because today hackers can produce a chip reader for about 250 euros. The material is purchased in any better electronic commerce. Not with us, of course, but in Germany it is no problem. They can also send it to you after a summary if you order it and pay for it. It costs about 250 euros. That's what the hackers say. And it's not just a chip reader, but we can also change the data on this chip through this and the computer. Which means there's a lot of other things in there that are written on this card. That's why I think it would make sense for this law to wait a little longer and for laser technology to be introduced. In laser technology, all data, including the driver’s licence, may in fact be placed on this card, including other licences, a pilot’s licence, a boatmaster’s licence, etc., including the entire medical record. That would make sense. And readability is impossible, except for those who have a truly dedicated approach, as it is called, it is said in certain official bodies, so that reading at the laser card can also be separated, so that certain segments, state segments can only read those segments concerning their work. In this way, the doctor could only open a medical file, enter new data, and nothing else. For example, taking the medicine could go to the pharmacy with this card, taking a prescription, it would be noted by the doctor, on the other hand, when the prescription was applied, it would be accurate whether the medicine was taken or not and so on. We could have all of that up there. Everyone would have access to just one segment. With the chip, it is so virtually impossible, or worse, that anyone is allowed to look at everything or anyone who understands little about these electronic things is also allowed to change everything that is written on the chip. In short, security is questionable, and there are many other things that are questionable. The principle itself that it is necessary to introduce a card with as much data as possible, a single card, is good, is understandable and is logical and we absolutely support it in the Slovenian National Party. In view of the fact that the choice of card with an embedded chip, however, we are against this law, because in our opinion it is an outdated, not in our opinion, conduct is an outdated technology that they tried to use in the National Assembly some years ago, what I know, four, five or more years ago. And at the time, it was known that data protection was questionable, yet they pushed on. In my opinion, this is also a matter of tied trade, which is at the expense of the security and protection of personal data. Once again, we will not support the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u198	The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u199	Thank you very much again for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will not support this bill in the Lip Group of Members. Allow me to ask a rhetorical question in the beginning, and I believe that many citizens and citizens will be able to answer it easily. Are we at an age, and I'm going to say, Virant's e-governments, we've cut red tape? Did we really reduce the administration in our country of paperwork at the time of Virant's e-government? Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the e-government age, we are only in Parliament for every procedure, for every step we want on the official path, even though we have computers, a computer network, for every step it takes three times more papers than in the previous system, the previous mandate. In the Lipa Group, we estimate that the system does not follow or pursue the public interest referred to by the proposer. We haven't found any public interest at any point. On the other hand, we ask ourselves, given that it is the establishment of a new system of identity cards, which will include in one place all the data, even the health condition, that this is an unjustified double record or a two-way management of this data. For the law speaks of volunteerism, it is said that a person will decide voluntarily whether to decide on a new system or will still be included or attached to an old system of governance in our country. On the other hand, this non-compulsoryness is the right choice, and the state budget is also burdened. This is a figure of €250,000 in 2008 in the coming years of €410 000. We ask ourselves, at the expense of someone or for the benefit of someone. Not least of all respected colleagues, we have heard several times today that this is a security issue. Even a representative of the largest coalition party wondered whether a fair and good security system would really be ensured. I would like to remind you and hope that American films remain on the other side of the meadow, that they will not also become reality in the Republic of Slovenia. We're in the age of identity theft. What can happen quickly if we have an inefficient security system in the field of computer technology, that someone buys one of us. The Delete key on your computer is enough to wipe you out of your system and get your identity. These are matters worth considering when we talk about concentrated data about an individual in one place. This was also pointed out by the Commissioner for Access to Public Information. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also pointed to an unfinished system. And this incomplete system goes first, I'll say, to the detriment of citizens and citizens, who can be over-exposed, I'll say in terms of "enemies". And that enemy is always a step ahead of the country, in front of those people who are trying to create some sort of secure system when we're talking about the information technology system. On the other hand, in the Lipa Group we rightly wonder whether the public interest represented by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may be in the control of individuals at every step. I am afraid that this control of individuals, personal data, at every step of the way, is more like a dictatorship, or in, I will say, a very beautiful quasi-democracy, but this is far from what we want our citizens and citizens and, finally, what we deserve. So much more because we are unable to implement these records, or management procedures, in other areas where [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And this is the whole area of protection for citizens and citizens. [[...]] There we did for once very little or nothing. As has already been said, we will not support this proposal in the Lip Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u200	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by colleague Školč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. LDS also has a number of concerns about this law and will not end up supporting these solutions. It is only necessary to say that in this debate, in all strong arguments, it is only necessary to consider it good that at least this amendment has occurred so that the person who decides to accept this document can decide whether or not to take this chip with health insurance. But I'm afraid it's not that important. In one part, a colleague of Gantar spoke about the unimaginable solutions. In particular, as regards how these access to data is protected against the entry of those who will use this single document in order to build a whole system of protection and autonomy of these individual databases, there is little talk about this in these documents. We hear a lot about the practical reasons for introducing this new ID card. What are these practical reasons? You could, of course, caricature and say that if someone loses this document, they will suddenly be able to access all the other data. It is true that he may be able to cancel it more quickly and get it back, but at the same time he would be in charge of health insurance. But these are all unnecessary speculations. What escapes me personally is that no one questioned you before the time of the well-accepted solution, that it is not necessary for everyone to have a ID card. With the solutions coming now, however, this ID card becomes with all the other things it brings, especially with a qualified digital certificate, as well as with the possibility of health insurance, with the possibility that, as we have heard here, upgrades also for other things, becomes sort of mandatory. Why is that so, where are the practical reasons? In some ways, we are only left with information that the Ministry has already initiated procedures for the drafting of this document. Maybe he's hiding the key to why the coalition's in a hurry, just trying to get someone to do the job. And if this will not be denied, then I firmly believe that in essence there are new tribes of accusations that we have heard at the expense of that mandatory label, at the expense of various calls for various documents. This is how a document is designed to force this business to be organised. This deal will not only be financed from the state budget, as said colleague Barbara Žgajner here, but will also be financed by everyone who will take this ID card. And, colleagues from the coalition, you here - I will not be advertising any company from the past - you are setting up a new entrepreneur, who will be drawn to the language by everyone for the next four years, him and in connection with you. You give the job in advance to someone without necessarily needing it and without everything behind it being completely considered and protected in terms of personal data protection. [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , in terms of the relevance of all these databases. Here, I am firmly convinced, is the key to these practical reasons and also the key to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u202	Comrade School, please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u203	I'll finish it, don't worry.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u204	I know you will.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u205	I would ask you to let me finish, that the key is precisely in these practical reasons, that the National Assembly assists the business of private people, whom we do not yet know who they are.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u206	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, on Tuesday, 22 April, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 4 p.m. when the questions raised by the Members are next. Until then, say good-bye!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u207	We're moving on to one. A TIME OF DAY, THAT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 25 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. On the first three questions, Members and Members of the opposition and on the Member of the ruling coalition's question, the President of the Government will answer on Friday 25 April 2008 at 2 p.m. Under this item, Mrs Marjeta Cotman, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, will first answer the unanswered questions raised at the 34th and 37th meetings of the assembly. The Ambassador of Dr Mitja Slavinec and Mr Ljubo Germič, who reported on two questions, will ask the second question when all the Members who have been registered ask one question. Each Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question, let us repeat a few Rules of Procedure. The President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. The Member shall provide an explanation of the request to supplement the reply within two minutes. However, the response may be completed for a maximum of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the following Minister and Ministers apologized for today: Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Mr Iztok Jarc, Minister for Foreign Affairs Mr Dimitrij Rupel, Minister without a licence responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia, Dr Žiga Turk and Minister of Economy Mag. Andrej Vizjak. You have received an overview of the questions and initiatives that were not answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 34th and 37th meetings of the assembly. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs will answer Mrs Mag's question. Majde Potrat related to government data on the poverty threshold. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u208	Thank you so much for asking me that question. Madam says that today there are 15% fewer people below the poverty line than there were three years ago. With this information, the Government does not have and does not know where this data on 15% poverty reduction is coming from. The provisional data on the risk of poverty published by the SURS on 17 December 2007 show that the poverty risk rate fell by 11.7% in 2005, taking into account the figures 2004, 2005 and 2006, i.e. two years during the mandate of the government, and remained almost the same as the year before. We don't know about the 15% reduction in poverty you're exposing. The last figure was 15% in 1997 when between 14 and 15% and 12% in 2004 and 2005. The claim that poverty is not rising shows us the SURS data, which shows that poverty is between 11% and 12% between 2002 and 2005. The latest data on the risk of poverty in Slovenia among the members of the European Union is fourth, which shows that Slovenia is paying exceptional attention to this area. This means that Slovenia has one of the lowest risks of poverty in Europe, and only three countries have a lower risk of poverty. According to data on the number of financial social assistance, the figures have been reduced to 47,516 since 2006, when the recipients were 58,553, and this number is currently 44,175. Thus, in these years, the number of recipients of monetary social assistance has decreased by 25%, meaning that money has decreased from 140 million in 2006 to 116 million in this year. This is also due to increased employment, as at the beginning of 2004, 91,000 were unemployed and 96,295 were unemployed at the end of March this year. Employment also excludes social exclusion, and the number of recipients of monetary social assistance has also decreased. However, social transfers certainly have an impact on the level of risk of poverty. If there were no social transfers, poverty would be almost 24%. However, the government has also put in place measures to mitigate the consequences of the adverse inflation movements. As you know, at the beginning of the year, a law on a protective supplement was passed, and certain improvements were adopted on children's allowances and also on tax legislation. However, regular coordination of transfers is also taking place under the law and the situation of recipients of social transfers has improved this year. By 8.4%, the children's allowance increased and by 3.6%, the total increase was 12%, which means 30 million euros more, and with protective supplements increased by 10 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. I'm sorry. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u210	Thank you, Madam Secretary of Defense. At the time when the question was raised, this was in December, your answer would at least in the last part be substantially different than it is now. My question was addressed because I spent half a year, and for the fourth time, I tried to prove to this government free of charge that inflation was great and that it was working for the most vulnerable groups. And in a statement by the Prime Minister of the Government on December 3rd in Odessa, this is a 15% reduction in poverty. I quote, let's look at this data, which has been operating on a very large scale lately, how many poor people there are in Slovenia. There are still 200,000 of them who are either below or on the edge of poverty. And that's a high number, and that's not something to brag about. However, no one says that three years ago there were 15 percent more and that we had reduced this number at that time. And at the time, Mr Prime Minister did not have any statistics in his hands, because at that time only the data for the level of poverty risk in 2004 and only later provisional data for 2005 were published. What I am actually asking you is: Are the criteria for setting the poverty threshold according to the methodology that is now appropriate, given that all experts who monitor poverty find that poverty is more than statistics show? In particular, in the population of older people, one-family or one-member households are more than 30% at risk. And I could give you a lot of information. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The Ombudsman also intends to prepare a special consultation on poverty. [[...]] So poverty is a minor problem in our country, in the real sense of people [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u212	That is why I mentioned earlier that it is social transfers that are reducing poverty in our country and, compared to the European Union, we are the country that is most committed to social transfers. Two-thirds of the budget of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is devoted to social transfers. This includes family benefits and parental benefits. The worst situation is in households where both parents are unemployed and have two children. That's 59%, and that's the highest. That is why we also increased the children's allowances in January, because this percentage was the highest and we are also fighting children's poverty in the European Union as we are in the European Union, so we wanted to increase the family budget itself. Immediately for a four-member family comes a one-member 43% and then single-parent households - 22%, these are the statistics of our office, then couples with three or more dependent children and all inactive persons, particularly unemployed, who belong to the 33% group. Among these are self-employed persons, 18%, elderly women 25%, and even tenants 22%. So much for percentages. This methodology, as you mentioned, is the methodology established by the European Commission by the Regulation and is taken into account for all Member States of the European Union. In comparison, it means that in 2005 Slovenia lived below the poverty risk threshold of EUR 5589, 11.7% of the people, the equivalent available income of these persons in 2005 was less than 466 euros per month. The four-member family with two adults and two children had to have at least 978 euros of income available per month in 2005.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Madam Minister will answer Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš's question about the payment of transfers to individuals and households. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Thank you, too, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, for the question raised. The Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households does not regulate the payment of transfers, but only provides for a way of coordinating them. With the adoption of the law, we wanted to eliminate a number of illogicalities in coordinating transfers. Transfers have been coordinated under the previous law on different bases and in different time periods. They were coordinated on the basis of the starting salary, minimum wages or average wages, and in different time periods. Transfers co-ordinated under this law will be reconciled once a year in January for the total increase in living needs or inflation. However, we would like to point out that the largest number of recipients of social transfers is coordinated in the same way as was coordinated before its adoption. The childcare allowance mechanism, which is also part of the largest social transfer, has remained unchanged. Parental benefits and partial payment for lost income are coordinated under this law at the beginning of the year and not only in the course of the year as regulated under the previous law, which is more favourable for beneficiaries. With the termination of the law, maternity benefits would be reduced, as the transfer was only aligned with the growth of the base salary for non-economic activities, which means only half of the projected increase in living costs. In the State budget, the funding for parental compensation under this law increased by €4.5 million in 2007. Despite the many advantages found, however, we have found that those who received the protective supplement were in a worse position. Therefore, this year we passed a law on the protection allowance, where the protective allowance is coordinated in the same way as the pension and is linked to the length of payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance. In other words, it is partly a social adjustment, but on the basis of employment, and therefore the amount of the protective allowance is paid to each beneficiary at different amounts according to the supplementary pension age. On the basis of these facts, we have assessed that a change should be made, so the Ministry has drawn up the proposed law. The pension benefits were paid at the end of January and were so higher by 3.6%, and in February they were re-measured from the maximum amount of 81.6% of the lowest pension base, so that the total increase in the protection allowance was 9%. It is important, however, that this law also provides Slovenian citizens who have retired in the republics of the former SFRJ with a protective allowance and also provides higher amounts of pensions for widows and reconciliation of subsistence for farmers. The implementation of this law required an additional EUR 10 million. In order to prevent the risk of increasing poverty and social exclusion, a law on parental protection was also adopted, amendments to the Parental Protection Act, which increased the child allowance by 8.4% and then to the Social Transfer Act, which together meant 12% this year. For this purpose, we have also earmarked an additional EUR 30 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u216	My question was also raised in December 2007. Is it not sad that the Member of Parliament must wait four months for the Minister's reply? Four months. While it is true, Minister, and everyone is grateful that you have joined the changes in the field of coordination of transfers. You turned them off and gave them a new marriage, pensioners. Those pensioners who receive a social security allowance. Because they have a "retirement" so low that they simply can't live with a "retirement". But I'll tell you what you did in 2007, even though you raised their security allowance by 3.6% in January. 200,000 pensioners were harmed by the criminal law on coordination of transfers in 2007. Those pensioners, a large number of these pensioners, did not have the right to a protective allowance in 2007. They lost those few ten euros a month. I believe that in January 2008 you had to approach something to be able to say just before the elections: "Yes. We have raised the protection allowance for the pensioners." But at the same time, you forgot to hurt them in 2007. And when you refer to the children's allowance that you raised on average or the average Slovenian family for only one euro, at the same time, you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, this government included in the calculation of the eligibility of the child allowance even interest on the savings book for the child. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia accounted for 18 euro of annual interest as a new income, which is considered to be a total quota for the acquisition of a child allowance. And this government has recalculated, and today this government owes the parents, owes the families, that they have to pay back the unwarranted child allowance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u218	Ladies and also Mrs Potrati, because I did not have time before, but also related to social transfers, I would also like to give this message that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is preparing a national report on social inclusion for 2008 to 2010, which is an operational programme or document that plans everything for the next three years and is expected to be in the government in June. The deadline to be submitted to the European Commission is September of this year. The government must prepare a proposal for a set of measures to improve the social situation of the weakest groups or to combat poverty and improve social inclusion. As part of the envisaged measures, we are planning to renovate the system of social rights or existing transfers, with which we want to reduce the intergenerational impact of poverty, in particular in terms of designing measures for the most vulnerable groups. These are mainly older persons, women, young people and the elimination of regional differences in the employment market, which are also quite common in the Slovenian market. This is a complex set of measures and proposals that the Ministry will submit to the European Commission, in accordance with the Education, Environment and Space Departments, finance and health departments, as I mentioned, in June and then send to the European Commission. We will also work to combat poverty in these measures, because I say, as long as only one receives financial social assistance, we must fight poverty with all our means, and especially against the poverty of children and also of pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, perhaps it is because of your last reply that I take advantage of the opportunity afforded me by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to hold a broader debate on your response at the next meeting. I believe it is also in your interest to explain to Members of Parliament and Members, and not least to the general Slovenian public, those facing poverty today, what government measures will be like in this area, in the area of poverty prevention. As you mentioned earlier the information of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, I also have this document before me, to which you referred, which you published on the day of poverty, the day of the fight against poverty. This data tells us about 2004, very much in detail what it meant to be poor in 2004 in our country and how much in 2004 the threshold of living below the poverty threshold - EUR 466 per month - was also the number with which you operated, Minister. But I'm sure you know that talking in 2008 after 6.4% inflation at the annual level in 2007 is, I'll say, belts that I don't say anything else. And if the government is going to build on the 2005 data, then we've done a bit of fighting and fighting poverty in 2008. But unfortunately, I must say that the whole strategy in the area of care and social protection services and poverty prevention, which is written between 2006 and 2010, is based on a state that is no longer in the present. Based on data from 2003 and 2004. But people in our country have to live with the situation they're in. And once again, I regret that the ministry, which will draw up a strategy and even provide it to the European Union, today does not have any fresh data on poverty in our country. I am sure that poverty is not the same as it was in 2004 and 2005, because the situation has changed significantly also because of inflation, including the fall in pensions compared to wages of 69 and a few percent. On the other hand, Minister, certain measures have been taken, and I specifically told you about the calculation of the child allowance. Despite the fact that you have raised the child allowance for about one euro, these people have to pay for the new legislation in other areas the costs of more than 100 euros. And that's unfair. In this area it is necessary to adopt an appropriate strategy and to say bobbob rather than to speak and refer to data from the year [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] 2004 or perhaps even a strategy you will introduce after the elections. [[...]] I would really like you to support the proposal for an extended discussion on the answer and finally present your intentions, including at [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u221	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to her parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of the Friday 25 April 2008 vote. We turn to the question put by Mr Bojan Kontić to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs concerning concessions for the provision of institutional protection services in nursing homes. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u222	Thank you very much. The question is why Velenje was not included or Velpa was awarded concessions by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is aware of the problems of overoccupation at home for the elderly, so in this mandate it had a twice call for concessions, in 2006 for 880 new cities and in 2007 we provided 1,800 new cities with concessions. This year, 1,400 new cities will be available in the homes, and by 2010 1,800 additional cities will be available. This will achieve 5% of the involvement of older people in institutional protection, as set out in the national social protection programme by 2010, when 16800 cities are expected to be available. Last year, in an invitation to tender for the award of home concessions for the elderly, the issue of concessions of decisions was concluded on 13 March this year, and for the area under C, for which the municipality of Velenje also applied, the tender was the largest number of tenderers, 21 which made the competition for the award of a concession for an estimated 1000 seats extremely large. The tenders received were reviewed by the expert commission in terms of whether the tenders satisfy the minimum technical conditions, the staffing conditions and the financial and business capacity of the individual tenderer. In completing the bids, the expert commission has mainly taken into account macro-location and micro-location conditions. This means, in particular, transport infrastructure, municipal equipment, land configuration, coverage of the needs of the institutional protection of the elderly in relation to the national programme and the quality of the programme submitted and the price of the service. Above all, under the C point, we wanted to cover all administrative units in the Republic of Slovenia by granting concessions because they had not been covered so far. Velenje already has a home for the elderly and has won 56.9 points on this call, 22 points from possible 40 points on the basis of location, 14.9 points on the basis of price and 20 points on the programme. As I have already mentioned, it is clear that the area unit where the tenderer competed with its offer is relatively well covered by the existing home. As a result of these criteria, Velenje received too few points. Of the 21 bidders competing under the C point, 15 have received more than Velenje, but only 10 can be awarded to them. That's the only reason the concession wasn't granted. Most of the allocations were made in the area of Ljubljana and Maribor, where demand is highest. With regard to the award of the concession to Velenju, she would mention that the existing Velenje office still has the possibility that the Council of the Institute itself will request the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to form a unit, and in this case the Ministry will grant a concession for a unit without a call for tender. In this mandate, the Ministry envisages the construction of units mainly because they are smaller units and even more friendly to the population or these units are also closer to the users of services themselves in nursing homes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mr Kontic's reply? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, especially Minister Cotmanov! The question was raised first in writing before the time when the answer was not yet known, now the answer is known and I regret to note once again that the call was not successful for the Grand Undertaking to obtain the concession. The excuse that in Velenj there is a home for the protection of adults, which, according to our assessment, is not sufficient to meet the criteria that such a home should meet, and given the number of reported needs for this house, we can find that all the criteria for the construction of a new home in Velenj are met. And when you say that the only criterion was macro or micro location, let me remind you that I am very surprised that in the same constituency you use different criteria for the Municipality of Velenje and the Municipality of Šostanja in the case where the concession was granted. Well, I don't think Shostań needs a concession. They really need it. But these two homes, both in the municipality of Šostanj and in the Municipality of Velenje, would hardly be enough for all the needs we have and are not competitive. This is important. Both in Scotland and in Velenj. And since we've talked about this before, I think that this question has come up with a good response, and I thank you for that, because it is on your part that it is ready to resolve the matter. Even if this is as a unit, if this is going to be a new building as a unit in an existing adult protection home, we will certainly be satisfied with the investment, because this means a step forward. It is not what we wanted, but it will help to solve the problems that the local community, such as the Municipality of Velenje, is facing right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u226	I think I have replied to Mr Kontic that it is possible to provide a unit in relation to the public service.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Majda Potrat asked a question from the Member States regarding the increase in labour at social work centres. May I have your answer, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u228	Thank you very much for asking a question about the burden of social work centres. I am pleased that Members, especially Madam Member, see that the centres for social work have indeed been burdened, because in recent times, negative assessments have been made on a case-by-case basis to the centres for social work. Social work centres are carrying out hard work, they are burdened and I am pleased that such perceptions are also visible that they are working at social work centres and that there are also individual Members who point out that social work centres are truly burdensome, despite the great professional work aimed at preventing and resolving the social pressures of individuals, families and vulnerable groups of the population. Of course, we are also facing the work of social work centres on a limited staffing plan and on the number of employees in public administration. However, we are working at the Ministry on a weekly and monthly basis to work with individual social work centres and also with the Community of Social Work Centres to regularly cooperate and solve the problems posed by new laws and thus new burdens for the Centre for Social Work. More recently, talks are about the new competences of social work centres regarding the transfer of scholarship decisions under the law on scholarships, which will enter into force this year or have been delegated the powers to decide on scholarships from the Institute of Employment to social work centres. With regard to this transfer, the Ministry has drawn up a human resources, financial and educational plan for the implementation of this transfer. The applications for scholarships will cover all 62 social work centres and 10 employees currently working at the Employment Service will be employed from the Employment Service. These workers are expected to occupy their seats at social work centres on 1 June this year. Pre-employment will be provided primarily to those centres for which we expect the maximum amount of work to be transferred to them. These are mainly Maribor, Pesnica, Ruše, Murska Sobota, Ptuj, Ljubljana, Celje, Kranj, Izola, Piran and Koper. At these centres, according to the Employment Office, the largest number of scholarships will be awarded. Therefore, weekly meetings of employees at the Employment Institute and the Community of Centres for Social Work and the Ministry are already taking place. At the beginning of May, immediately after the holidays, substantive education will be started for employees who will work in the field of state scholarships. The four education courses, which will be divided regionally, will take note of the law on scholarships and sub-laws. We have also established an e-mail address for substantive issues, monthly circulars for CSD professionals and regular monthly meetings between representatives of the Directorate for Social Affairs and the Community of Centres for Social Work and Director. In order to provide data from official records, discussions are still under way with the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration on the transferability of certain data that are urgently needed with regard to the transfer of the information system and is also foreseen, as I have already mentioned, for education at social work centres. We are pleased to see that working Saturdays have also been abolished at social work centres, as this also reduces the burden of social work centres. By transferring scholarships to social work centres, we want to ensure, above all, greater cost-effectiveness and accessibility of the data already available to social work centres. Those social work centers that don't get new jobs will get them. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u230	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, this question, as you know, has a beard, because you were sick in the middle and you were unable to answer. I am pleased, however, that in the meantime you have met with the Centre for Social Work in Maribor, where as a member of the world I have been informed of the problems they face at the centres. Since I am a member of the Council, however, they have faced the issue of human resources malnutrition and have not adopted appropriate standards. This is an inherited situation for you, but it would be good if something moved in this area too, because we both know that the expectations of people coming to the centres are very high. They come under specific circumstances and deserve good treatment. Centre employees, however, cannot always react as people expect them to because of overcrowding and overcrowding in the workplace. So I'm asking you about two other delegated tasks, this is the transfer of orders for a replacement penalty. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u231	Madam Members, at the outset, I warned you that this was a matter of complementing the answer. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u232	Of course it's a supplement. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u233	But you can't ask two more questions, what you said yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u234	Mr Vice-President, I object to the fact that this is not in the context of the fact that it is a staff plan and a burden on employees, because now employees at the social work centre have to do new tasks and they cannot do the current ones. I wonder: When will the labour standards for social work centres be adopted? It is a question of fostering, a larger number of parties with regard to the child supplement, a whole series of things that are being handled, carrying out new tasks with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u236	With regard to the law on scholarships, I would like to stress that this is of a seasonal nature, as the number of applications will increase in September. Indeed, the law on scholarship provides that new students or students can invest throughout the year, but we know that the biggest fallout is in September. I would also like to point out that the same data required to obtain the grant are also necessary for the acquisition of the child allowance. And since these bases are exposed, the work will be easier than the school certificate. We are now agreeing that schools will also establish such an information system that they can also obtain certificates from social work centres in the application for a scholarship. This reduces the various evidence that students had to provide. Once again, I stress that the work will be increased in September, but not in a year, because the second stage will then save the ministry. Notwithstanding what I have pointed out, the number of employees at these social work centres, where work is increasing, will increase and financial resources will be provided to the others in view of the burden and assistance in this work. We want the work to go smoothly. Of course, in this mandate, we have drawn up a family code that has transferred many of the competences of the Centre for Social Work to the courts, the most difficult of all. The family code has been processed or partially discontinued because of the presidency. With this family code, we wanted social work centres in particular to relieve those procedures, which are the longest and also the most professionally difficult, especially with regard to the taking of the child. All these provisional orders will be transferred to the courts by way of the removal of the child, as well as the provisional maternity orders.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Samo Bevk asked the question about the financing of new buildings and maintenance works at home for the elderly. I'm asking for your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u238	Thank you very much. At the end of December last year, we set up a special working group for the implementation of the Public-Private Partnership project in the field of home for the elderly. In addition to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, representatives of the Ministry of Finance are included, which is the holder of the professional basis of the public-private partnership and representatives of the community of social institutions. The working group discussed at its meetings the possibilities and modalities for the implementation of the PPP project on the basis of the documentation already collected. At the same time, the Community of Social Institutions of Slovenia has proposed a set of homes for older people who act as public institutions and would like to participate in a public-private partnership. The first home that showed serious interest was home to the elderly Idrija. In accordance with the conclusions adopted by the Working Group on Public-Private Partnership, the Ministry has initiated appropriate procedures for the implementation of the reconstruction or comprehensive renovation of the home pensioners in Idrija, which will be carried out on the basis of the joint investments of the private investor and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The preparation of a public call to private investors is also part of the actions related to home renovation. Mr Bevk knows that there have been several meetings on this subject and that the original investor was the company Kolektor, then he resigned and now, fortunately, a new investor has come forward. This week, a meeting with the mayor of the municipality of Idria will be held with the new investor and representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to implement this programme as soon as possible and to propose further activities on the basis of the investment programme and the status assessment by the working group this month, which is why this meeting is scheduled to begin as soon as possible in this week. With regard to the construction of homes for the elderly, the real estate fund of pension and disability insurance in the business plan for 2008 also envisaged pilot projects for homes for the elderly in three locations, in Murska Sobota, Lendava and Koper. The 2008 budget of the Ministry provides for new constructions or adaptations of homes for an older amount of 7 million euros, of which new construction is envisaged at home in Hodoš, and adaptations in Slovenian Konjice, Hrastnik, Metlika, Jesenica, Hrastovec, Škofja Loka, Vrhnika, Grosuplje and Dravograd. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I thank Secretary Cotman for her answers. The fact is that there is only one comprehensive construction in the state budget by 2011 for Idria, but such a long-range project cannot be implemented. It is therefore right that it is also attempted with the public-private partnership and also with the assets of the real estate fund ZPIZ, because otherwise we will not be able to provide enough seats in new homes, as the state budget on this item is significantly underserved. Therefore, more resources will also need to be made available in the future in the State budget to build a home for pensioners, while also taking advantage of all those options from the public-private partnership to the real estate fund. Of course, I have been informed about all this information about home in Idria, for some of these interviews were part of my own. But I would like to point out the slowness of these procedures. My first question on this subject was raised in October 2007 and so far there has not been a public call for the verification of private interest, as you said, nor has the call for the implementation of the project been published nor has the contractor selected. And if the deadlines go optimally, we'll be able to do all of this by the month of September. [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] However, I am afraid that something will get stuck in the administration of both ministries, so I would like to request an up-to-date monitoring of these projects to build a pensioner's home by pilot [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u242	The problem, as I said, was in the investor, and now that we have an investor, we assume that there will also be a public call and invitation to tender in this week, so that the works can start as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u243	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor to ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u244	Thank you very much. And hello, Mr. Secretary. Over the past few months, we have witnessed numerous protests and strikes in both the public and private sectors. The policy of wages in the real sector depends indirectly on the negotiations you are leading. According to your public statements in recent negotiations, in your opinion there are no major problems with the enforcement of the law on the public sector wage system, although many protests by 10,000 employees and their union representatives clearly warn that it is not only as good as you would like to show. I do not know whether, in all these protests, it is possible to say that wages in the public sector are not in crisis. The claim that an agreement to raise the salaries of doctors by 15.4% will not affect negotiations with other unions certainly does not hold serious judgment, at least not for me. I agree with your statement that giving in to individual professional groups would mean recognizing specific status to certain castes, as has been said, but I cannot help but conclude that you are creating a relationship for such and similar thinking. This is exactly what the agreement on health is with FIDES alone. Why not a union that, besides doctors, represents other health workers? That's why I'm asking you, Minister Dr. Virant: Do you still think that, in the face of all the weaknesses in the negotiations in this mandate and in the face of numerous announced statements and initiatives to exclude individual groups from the single public sector wage system, the wage system in the public sector can be achieved as it was set up?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The answer to the question is: absolutely yes. And whether I am right or right, you who are so skeptical, Slovenia will be able to judge somewhere by the end of May when, according to my forecast, collective contracts of activities and professions in the public sector will be signed, with the exception of maybe one or two. The new wage system in the public sector began to be built in 2002, when the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, with the aim of overcoming wage disorder in the public sector in order to reach a regulated system, a transparent system, that is, a transparent system, and the elimination of some wage imbalances in some undervalued professions of the public sector. This law was passed by a large majority in the National Assembly, the candidate was the government at the time, the chief proposer was your party, Dr. Rado Bohinc, and the current government took over this law and negotiations in the phase of the negotiations on the general collective agreement for the public sector and in the phase of the difference between the government and the union position, then in the tolars, 100 billion tolars. So we took over the law that opened the payroll system to re-set it and the negotiating position of 100 billion dollars apart. That was the legacy I took. And one of the first questions the government has asked itself was whether to insist on or move forward with the established pay system, as the law has predicted, or leave it all behind, and return to the previous situation. We've been thinking about this a lot, we've been talking to the unions, and the common position at the end was to take the matter forward, despite all the risks we've been aware of. If you're putting a new salary system in one company with 200 employees, you're taking a certain risk in the public sector with 150,000 employees. And we've taken the matter forward, and we've arranged the salaries for the officers first. We all have transparent salaries since 1 January of this year: Presidents, Members; perhaps it has fallen slightly; you have been angry; ministers, mayors, judges, prosecutors, all in the single system. Some of you were angry because we were equal to 150, 160 thousand public servants in terms of the work-life allowance and paid a lot of us a little bit, just because we want a unified and orderly system. Come in. For 160 thousand civil servants, wages cannot be arranged differently than the collective agreement. First, the collective contract for the public sector, which lays down the foundations, establishes the value of the indicative jobs and any additions, then with the 13 collective agreements of activities and occupations. The general collective agreement was initialled by the Government and the vast majority of trade unions in the public sector last July, it is said that we have already agreed on fundamental wage relations with trade unions. Mr Strukelj did not sign it, even though he agreed to include the teacher and the teacher in the 30th pay grade. You have to ask him why he doesn't sign something he agrees with. You need to talk to him about this in particular. I don't understand. I have to say. And then negotiations continued on the sectoral collective agreements, together of the 13 now in the final phase. According to my assessment, these negotiations will be concluded in May, which is what appears to be the predominant position among the unions. The deal we made with the doctors, in my firm belief, does not undermine what has been negotiated so far. I did not negotiate in mind, but I also wanted the position of the other unions all the time, whether a deal or not would have broken what we had already agreed on in the other fields. And I only went to the limit where it didn't happen. Although I had only oral assurances, there were some risks involved, but I relied on it. The medical collective contract is mainly a differentiation in health care, a transition from a system of balancing, where in general practice the doctor has virtually the same salary as a neurosurgeon with the longest specialization, which operates three days a week in the operating room. This balance sheet was not good, and we have now exceeded it with this agreement. The public sector will, of course, receive certain pay raises on the basis of these collective agreements. However, it is necessary to make it clear: [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The money for these pay raises, and I conclude, was collected by the public sector itself. Since 2002, all employees in the public sector have given up part of wage coordination with inflation in order to raise money [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u248	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Let me say I was expecting him, and I heard exactly what I thought I would hear. Indeed, the former government has set up this project, indeed the host of Dr Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, at the time he had the Secretary of State in the Government, who was called Dr Virant. You've been to the previous government, now you're in this government, and it's only right that you keep going, but don't forget that. The government consists of ministers as well as secretaries of state. In the information you tell me, I cannot believe that this agreement you made with the doctors will be so undisturbed for the other unions that they will simply agree with it and that they will not compare themselves with this success of the doctors. The statements they made go exactly this way. The collective agreements will, as you said, be signed, at least by the end of May. But there won't be one big union among them, which can somehow be advocated by the government by a minister who is sitting behind you right now. And I really want to know whether, when 250,000 pensioners receive a lower pension of EUR 500 and as many as 350,000 employees receive a lower salary of EUR 1,000 gross, of which EUR 80,000 is even less than EUR 600 gross, it is possible for some groups to recognise an increase in salaries, which often exceed those amounts, without social tensions and disagreements. It is true what you said that the future will answer that question. It's hard for me to say at this point, it's hard for you to say, but one of us will certainly be right.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u250	Thank you very much. First, perhaps you should be a little more specific when you say that some union leaders in their statements already estimate that the agreement with doctors will result in additional requirements. As far as I know, this is Mr Strukl and only for Mr Strukl. Mr Doro Hvalica is the leader of the Public Sector Trade Union negotiating group. He was empowered by 25 public sector unions to talk about it, and his statements were completely different. It is true, however, that Mr Strukelj is very loud and very vehement in his performances and may then sound more like Mr Doro Praise. What kind of protests are you talking about, by the way? As far as I know, we only have Mr Strukl on the one hand who is protesting, and I find it very interesting that you know that he will not sign the collective agreement. How can your client tell you today that Struckle will not sign a collective agreement? Did you agree to that? Indeed, the question for Mr Struklja is this: why not sign a collective agreement on education and education activities, and if 96% of teachers' jobs in primary and secondary schools are harmonised? The salaries of teachers, mentors and counselors are harmonised between the union and government sides, with only 4% uncoordinated, these are the teachers of saints in the highest pay grade. And how can a union leader not agree to such a contract is an extremely difficult question for me. As far as the doctors are concerned. The FIDES Medical Union came before the government with a claim for 30% of the increase in medical salaries. All these years, when the public sector negotiations were under way, they were either more than or not at all - precisely because they were convinced that at the last stage of the negotiations, when the negotiations would come to an end, the FIDES, which is considered somehow outside the public sector, would come, demand its own, get and take away. It wasn't like that. Although the sentence was threatened and we were practically three hours before the negotiations were concluded, with the exception of 15%, that is, their claim of 30% remained virtually unchanged up to three hours before the negotiations were concluded, only after they saw that the Government was determined not to give in to such high demands for the price of the sentence did they lower their claim. Similar elevations, higher elevations will be given to health care, which has been undervalued, i.e. nurses. Doctors, however, are not underestimated in general, but they are a problem of internal differentiation - that they have too much equal pay, regardless of the degree of complexity of jobs. That, I think we've solved it now. Once again, this rise in wages currently being paid by the public sector has been the result of the public sector's involvement since 2002 [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Kontic, would you like to? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u252	Procedural store [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u253	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u254	I'll make a suggestion at the end. First, the explanation to the Minister. You said in the first part of the answer that the unions would sign a collective agreement in the majority except the Struckle Union, you told me in response. If you don't listen to me, listen to yourself when you talk. With regard to Struklav's balance and volume, I have never, in my opinion, talked to him until today, and I find it difficult to appreciate, but you can compete with him, confidently, or difficult for you in the discussions he is leading with you. In particular, it may be because, today, all your claims and deception cannot be answered because he is not a Member. You've had doctors come with a 30% salary increase request, and you've been very successful because you've admitted them to 15. What will you do if schoolchildren come with a similar request or maybe 50%, you will be grateful with 25%? [[...]] [[Talking in the background.]] You will have the opportunity at the next meeting if the government coalition supports my proposal to answer this question and any other issue that will arise in the debate, so don't get upset, you will have time, opportunities [[...]] [[...]] And something else will happen, and by the end of May, it will be over, that the June or May session will not be over yet, but it will be here somewhere, but if we give it to June, it will be right that we can talk about it seriously and then we will also see who will sign the contract and who will not be on the side of the unions. Of course, you will have to talk about the social partners, because the National Assembly does not have this role, but Members even less, and the Government is in the social partnership, at least I hope it is still, and you will have to find an agreement, not Members and Members. And given that there have been some open answers and that some assessments have also been made directly over the thumb, I propose that the National Assembly decide tomorrow on a procedural decision to hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly on the response of Minister Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic's proposal will be discussed by the National Assembly at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration. His parliamentary question will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of the vote on Friday 25 April 2008. Mr Rudolf Moge will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Here you go, Mr. Mogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We are under severe pressure, we have European prices and we have European currency and we have Balkan wages. This also makes social transfers so low that it is not possible to work well and manage policies in this area. Madam Minister, my question again concerns homes for the elderly, for the third time today. It's the following, look, I now have about 73 homes, 55 is public, 18 is private, with a concession allowing about 14,400 vacancies. With the strategy you have at the Ministry, you say you will be able to obtain 16,800 seats in these homes by 2010. From this, if you look at little data online, where else can you find that only in Ljubljana are there about 6,854 applicants waiting for homes to be found somewhere, these numbers vary considerably, and all requests in the Republic of Slovenia between 155,000, 16,000 and 17,000, or, if I may say, on the Community website of social institutions are in the module of the request prepared by your Minister, the respected Minister, the information that 16,185 requests for care are now available. The data in these statistics differ from one another in the assessment of the number of applications and waiting ones, as well as in the number of cities in the homes for the elderly in the Republic of Slovenia. So if I look at this moment or by 2010, we'll have about 16,800 free seats in our homes. On the other hand, we now have 16,185 requests to have an older population in our homes. Your target was from 4.5% to 5%, as you said today. But this, as you can see, is just a drop into the sea. If this is how the state will solve this problem, then people of old age will die in distress and indemnity. I can say that with certainty. So I ask you: Do you have a strategy for regulating the situation in this area? And if you have a real rating system, what is the actual number of requests and needs in the whole of Slovenia? Will the envisaged new vacancies satisfy the needs? What is the Ministry's real assessment of the increase in the number of applications in the coming years and how does it plan to ensure a sufficient number of vacancies? This is no longer a social problem. That's a social problem. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u258	Thank you very much, Mr Mohet, for the question. Indeed, the demographic issue is one of the most pressing issues in Europe and also in Slovenia. We're aware of that at the Ministry. In the National Social Protection Programme, as you have already mentioned, by 2010 and the Ageing Strategy, by 2010, we wrote that we will have a 5% coverage. However, this is the lowest number, and we are aware that this number will have to be exceeded by the number of older people who increase each year. A record of those waiting for a nursing home under the authority of the Ministry is maintained by the Community of Social Protection Institutions of Slovenia, which manages the needs daily. There are really needs for their records, according to my data, 16.404 waiting. However, this programme does not allow duplication. So he can't, like, file one more petitions at home. It is true, however, that when we check these data, we check them monthly, but there are some who want to go to a nursing home, although they do not yet meet the conditions, they are still active, but they want to provide a home for five, ten years in advance. According to our information, however, there are a quarter of those who would need immediate admission to their home. In the last tender, as already mentioned today, it was awarded by 2010 - 1800 cities, at least 16800. We are aware that this is not enough until 2010 - so we have made intensive talks with the mayor and the mayor of the Ljubljana municipality, where the needs are greatest, and we would like to present a short notice, especially for Ljubljana and partly Maribor, because there are also great needs to increase the number of concessions. In Ljubljana, there is mainly a problem of land, so we are now negotiating with the municipality for three locations where concessions could be awarded. As you yourself mentioned, it is the most forthcoming in Ljubljana, and with this call that we have now concluded, we are aware that not all the needs have been met, so we have joined the new call for proposals. Of course, we know other forms of assistance to older ones, such as building a network of day - care facilities, home care, shelters, remote care aid networks, and finding additional opportunities to provide care for the elderly in the home or in another family. However, with the new methodology for prices of social protection services, which we are preparing together with users' and service providers' representatives, we are trying to reduce the price gap between individual social protection services. Because the lowest prices are just for home protection, the other services are more expensive and we also want to contribute to other services that are available to older citizens. About one quarter of the older generation needs less or more care or care, and in order to increase the needs and requirements for long-term care, we have also embarked on a law on long-term care, which will also save long-term care and institutional protection for the elderly, where we want to drive a comprehensive system of social security for older citizens. As you know, this law has been granted to the Ministry of Health and this year has been allocated to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. It took a long time to reach agreement with the Ministry of Health and Finance and to coordinate to establish new legal bases for long-term care. This will ensure better and more equitable access to services, greater transparency of resources and a more equitable distribution of resources, and ensure the long-term financial sustainability of the system.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary, for your answer. So it's pretty much true that we have 16,000 people who want to come to this nursing home, and now we have 14,000 capacity, and we're going to have about 16,000. You are simply responding to this pressure with certain actions and also with one change of legislation, as far as I can understand what is too little in my opinion if you want to take the problem seriously. It happens, I am also old that in this kind of waiting like among those who are in the home, there is also a kind of, if we call it, a nice word, a rash. And we should calculate roughly what a minimum of social sustainability would be in the country or that there would be a social consensus that we could somehow live in such a way that we could look at each other in the face. But I didn't understand that from your answer. And I don't know if even if you have an additional question, this, you know, isn't just your problem: do you have on this big problem, are you living people, do you have coordination on this project between different ministries, from the economy forward, or is it just left to you? And: Do you, like now for these new constructions and these things, have you mentioned something before, even designed, how you will give more money to rebuild these old homes or to reconstruct these old homes? You may have some law in this area that would allow you to do so, because otherwise, within the framework of the budget we have adopted and under certain legislation, you can only step in place, while the problem that remains in the sky is still open.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u262	The news in this, as I have already answered in previous questions, is the real estate fund of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, which in previous years, unfortunately, invested only in housing provided, and has a certain amount of money and therefore, in this business plan, also provides for the allocation of funds for homes for the elderly, three of which I mentioned earlier. That's news. With regard to the issue of the link with other ministries, I would say that we are working with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance on this long-term care law, and we are working in a working group preparing a project for public private partnership with the Ministry of Finance. However, I think that the situation in Ljubljana will also improve by granting these new concessions and by a new invitation, because there was no prior way of listening to the Ljubljana Municipality, but now we are so far away from agreeing on land that we can join the award of new concessions, because the most problematic is Ljubljana and also partly Maribor. We covered administrative units with the last call, because unfortunately so far in the Republic of Slovenia, even the administrative unit has not been covered with homes for the elderly. We covered at least administrative units with this last call. By trying to increase the capacity of the home for the elderly. I would also like to point out that this does not depend only on the granting of concessions from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but depends on the green light of the Health Insurance Office. We can grant as many concessions as the financial situation of the Health Insurance Institute allows us, and we have already exceeded 600 beds in this last concession that the Health Insurance Institute has not provided us and we have gone through this number. We will also have to deal with the health insurance company on this latest call for Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Hrovat will ask the Minister of Defence a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that. So, with 1. On 1 this year, a fire school was established as an internal organisational unit of the Education Centre for Protection and Rescue. After years of efforts, it finally succeeded in establishing an institution for the training of firefighters, which is certainly commendable. You should be particularly commended for this, Mr Defence Minister, because you have also accepted a new systemisation. It is also commendable that school management has been entrusted to an experienced operative and a top-notch firefighter, providing an appropriate level of expertise. The school is established as a department and is basically in charge of basic and additional training of firefighters. I hope that in the future the fire school will also become an institution for the training of volunteer firefighters, which is certainly a desire and a need on the ground. It is also necessary to ensure that the department actually functions as a school and has adequate spatial conditions for its work. The State, i.e. the Protection and Rescue Authority, is also responsible for second-degree training of professional firefighters. With the introduction of the new law in 2005, the firefighting technique programme was discontinued within the Education Centre for Protection and Rescue since the basic level of education for the profession of firefighter was raised from IV. to the V. level of education. The expert decision was to initiate activities for the second level of a fire officer to establish a higher fire school. This is a logical consequence of the development of this area and the follow-up to legal provisions. Finally, the very complexity of the force field towards such regulation of education. To this end, some steps have already been taken, which are in fact urgently needed. It should be noted that the State will not provide a second level of education for firefighters for about 8 years, which is particularly critical given the lack of staff. This is in view of the situation in the area of protection and rescue, the most important part of the leadership for intervention, and it is very irresponsible that this should still be delayed, as this could have negative consequences for the entire protection and rescue system. What it means to be 8 years without adequate education opportunities in today's technological developments is probably not necessary to stress in particular. It should also be pointed out that, in the final phase, there are also agreements on job placements of professional firefighters where one third of the proposed jobs are required by the VI. level of education. This is also an additional reason for the early establishment of a higher vocational school. Dear Minister! What will be your follow-up to the establishment of a higher vocational school? And: When can firefighters expect or expect to start such an education? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u266	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for your question, too. One of the pillars of national security is certainly firefighters, as we can see that we are at risk of completely new dangers, such as natural disasters, we have experience in relation to railways, ecological accidents, and not least every day traffic accidents, where firefighters are the first to actually intervene. The fire mission is how to protect property, save lives. That is why we have revised this legislation in the National Assembly, in particular the Fire Action Act, which develops firefighting as a general rescue service. Of course, if we want an effective overall rescue service to be carried out by firefighters, it was imperative to establish a firefighters school that began operating with 1. 1. this year. This is about giving additional knowledge, complementary knowledge to professional firefighters, but it is also our desire to include voluntary firefighters in these programmes, especially because the backbone of our firefighting is still represented by voluntary firefighters, as it is more than 40,000 operational volunteer firefighters, and of course there are 600 professional firefighters who are also carrying out this mission. With regard to the higher education, let me say that we have accelerated all activities because we are aware of this problem that you mentioned. It would be very bad if only eight years later we had the first fire engineers, so we accelerated all activities, and we accepted a professional standard for firefighters and firefighters. Programmes for this training are being prepared by somehow counting on this programme to be prepared this year, but next year the Higher Education Council could also confirm this programme, because we need to establish this higher education in accordance with the Higher Education Act, but I do not expect any specific problems here, including with regard to the provision of material and spatial and human resources conditions. We will make sure that all of this is prepared and somehow we plan that in autumn 2009, if the programme was approved by the Higher Education Council, I have said about the premises that I do not expect any major problems here, we could have already entered the first generation that would be trained as a firefighter. Of course, those who have completed this vocational fire school since 2005 could be enrolled here, and those who do so by 2005 have a plus-fifth degree. We are counting on the fact that it is not easy to have the first fire engineers in 2011. I can only promise that we will make every effort to carry out all these activities, because we are aware that if firefighting continues to develop qualitatively as a general rescue service, one of the conditions in addition to good equipment is education, skill, because it saves life and protects property.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has a question for the Minister of Economy. The minister is away today, do you want to go anyway? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u268	I request an oral response at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Dear Minister and Ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I must say that on Friday I was a little surprised to learn that the ministers received a new title, because you are no longer able to ask specific questions and problems, but only general and systemic and I have named you'systemic ministers and ministers in the government of Mr Janez Janša'. So, in view of that, I had to "correct" my question. So, given that we are hearing daily about the undisputed transparency of the sale of state property, by which the government justifies the withdrawal of the state and also its withdrawal from the economy, it is right to hear from the Minister of Economy: Is this true or not? Two specific cases. In the first case, the company TDR Metallurgy Ruše, which is supposed to go bankrupt after writing to the public, despite the promises of the buyer and seller or guardian of the purchase contract, is Holdinga Slovenian Power Plants that the company has a perspective. A ridiculously low ransom, just over 200 000 euros, and a binding contract was obviously just a scam for a good deal, for an individual or an individual. And another case is related to the award of concessions in the gaming sphere. The economic association, which we will appoint today as X, I cannot, in particular, tabled a proposal with reasonable reasons for granting the concession to the subsidiary. Reasons were given by the Ministry of Finance, the Office responsible for the supervision of gambling, at the end of which you are also the Minister of Finance and the competent economic committee of the Government. The case was placed at the government's meeting, and for unknown reasons, it was withdrawn. Until today, there is no answer, almost a year. However, the concession was granted to another economic company, which is occasionally located in the so-called octopuses of the current government and coalition garniture. That's why, of course, I'm asking Minister Andre Visiak. Firstly: Is it not a case, despite binding contracts, for damage to state property when the company is sold at a ridiculously low price and the new owner is making an additional profit by selling off surplus assets? Is it a pre-arranged cow trade where tendering conditions and signed contracts are violated with the knowledge of the seller or guardian of the contract by the State? And third: What is the fate of workers in the event of bankruptcy, despite the contractual obligation not to release any workers?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will ask the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Public Administration a question. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister! My question concerns border crossings. Since I have already received quite a bit of information today about how this story is going somewhere after Slovenia, I have to say what is moving successfully, maybe part of the question concentrates on transitions, say, Love in Gorenjska, the one I know well, and, say, a small border crossing like it was in Jezerska. What's this all about? The fact is that this is the first mirror, the first picture that a tourist or a guest about Slovenia gets when he comes to our home country, and I must say that the situation in Love is not exemplary, is not idyllic, but of course it is not so alarming that it is necessary to run on the nose with a solution, but it is necessary to think of it and make a beautiful point there. The first part of the question concerns transport safety. There is traffic safety on Lovel, today the traffic regime is different, we drive around the customs station, on the left and right, on Saturdays and Sundays, when a lot of visitors and tourists are there, and on the road there are incidents of a situation that I think would be good for us to stop by autumn in the summer. The second part refers only to a border building where police and customs officers used to come home. I have tried to appeal to Mr Simoniti's Minister of Culture once again to the Austrians, who are now setting up the Mathausen Memorial Room on this border plateau. Let me say that the Mathausen camp was the only concentration camp on the ground of the former Yugoslavia, of course also Slovenia, and since it is a monument of state importance, it deserves more emphasis, greater concern. And I propose that, following the example of the Austrians on our side, because I hear that part of the building will remain dedicated to police activities, which I think from the point of view of the local community will be fine and acceptable, that security will be increased, that the second part of the building, which is large enough, will be dedicated to the memorial room of this Mathausen Museum and that, in fact, from the Ministry of Public Administration, part of the building will just move to the Ministry of Culture. For starters, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u272	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much for the question. I'll try to answer on behalf of both of you, if I have to, I'm sure Dr. Virant's colleague will add something else. First of all, general. The dynamics of the demolition or regulation of former border crossing areas are determined by the conclusions of the Government adopted at the 147th meeting on 22 November last year. It was decided that activities to ensure the free movement of persons and goods should be carried out in a two-phase manner. In particular, the first phase, which envisaged the removal of all traffic signs and other signs and tables, the establishment of appropriate horizontal and vertical traffic signals, the opening of all prisons and the provision of appropriate illumination for each border crossing, had already been carried out by 21 December of last year. The second phase, however, represents the implementation of more complex interventions in the removal of roofs, cabins, islands and all other obstacles, and the comprehensive regulation of surfaces at border crossings. Priority is given to border crossings on motorways, fast roads, main roads and regional roads. The deadline for the implementation of this measure was 31 March, but unfortunately, because of the more difficult construction procedures allowed for demolition, it was not realized. The management of the areas of former border crossings is under the responsibility of road infrastructure managers, Darsa, within the framework of the road world. The management of the remaining area at border crossings is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Administration or other land managers and facilities which have already been managed by the Government. For safety, which was also one of your questions, road traffic is the responsibility of the managers of this road infrastructure, Dars and DRSC on state roads and municipalities on municipal roads. As for the specific question of the border crossing, namely, Ljubelja, I just, after the conversation we had here, received some answers about the plans for realisation or the establishment of a normal state, and I would suggest that we meet on this subject in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u273	Here you go, Mr. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u274	Thank you very much to the distinguished Minister for the first part of the answer and for the willingness to resolve the situation in the best interests of all. In the second part, however, the question would be given to Minister Virant, an initiative and, if possible, a part of this joint facility, which is not used by the police and was intended for the former customs office as a memorial room of Camp Mauthausen. What's going on in practice? Neighbors in neighbouring Koroška have been hiding for many years that there has been a camp with them, and today they will obviously, because they want to be in front of us, they have had a memorial room of this camp before, and the Slovenians, who have put a lot of effort into this camp, including human lives, and something else, I think the subject is also from the position of the Presidency of the European Union and from the point of view of national pride, so important that it is possible for them to engage in one of the talks with the Minister of Culture or possibly at a government meeting, because it is not a local matter, but the only such a monument of national importance, to pay a little more attention and also to agree and, in cooperation with the local community, to engage in this problem in a constructive political way and to put something really beautiful and memorable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Here you are, Minister Dr. Virant.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Well, I don't see any obstacles for this transmission. The main policy for these facilities is that whoever finds the content, whether it be a ministry or a local community, should also have these facilities. There is no reason to keep this in the administration of the Ministry of Public Administration. In all other cases, when congregations have some ideas, some program, I always advocate that these facilities simply be transferred to the congregation to get some content there and that we all benefit from it. Well, there's absolutely no reservations. Where there's a program where there's content, there's going to be an object. Of course, free of charge, within the public sphere. If he goes to the Ministry of Culture or to the municipality, we will transfer it free of charge, but if that is not possible, we will, of course, sell it to the best bidder at the auction.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar wants to ask the Minister of Economy, who is absent today. You want to do it anyway?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u278	Of course, Mr. Vice President. I certainly want to set up my lips. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u279	Here you go. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u280	the question of the delegation. [[...]] I believe that the Minister in Japan has not escaped because of my question of the Member State, that he has some important tasks there that he is likely to report to the public. However, I am asking him a question. As we have seen in the media last week that the Postal and Electronic Communications Agency has issued a decision on the allocation of radio frequencies for the provision of UMTS services, we have found that a public call for opinions which should have been published by law in the Official Journal has also not been published on the Agency’s website, although four others have been published in the same Official Journal, this time public calls for frequencies that are still available on the Agency’s website today. This call was not then and, of course, not today. At the time of granting this frequency, the Agency has also not established and charged a single payment under Article 56, paragraph 4, of the Electronic Communications Act and since all other users who received this frequency for UMTS services had to pay, one even very large, this single contribution, of course, is at least unusual. I therefore ask the Minister to explain to me: How is it that the public call for an opinion of the interested public regarding the allocation of this radio frequency of UMTS, IMTS/2000, as has been formally said, which has already been published in the cited Official Journal, has not been published on the Agency's websites? Although, as it is said, the remaining invitations to tender have been published and are still available today. In addition, I ask the Minister: Did the sole interested user or interested party, in line with the public call, declare the amount of single payment for the frequency that was the subject of this call? In this notice, of course, the holder or the interested party should clarify the determination and the amount of that one-off payment. Finally, the Minister should explain: What are the motives of the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications that, when granting a decision to use the frequencies that were the subject of a public call, he has waived the obligation to impose a single payment on the user? Of course, I will be waiting for the Minister for the answers - I expect them at the next meeting, because I think the written answer would last longer - I would like to thank you very much for the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr Victory Jelinčič The nobles will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I ask you, what do your employees in the Ministry do when they do capital nonsense? See, in June 2007, a certain company purchased Ecoenergetics, d.o.o., which was the owner of land and concessions for the exploitation of grammatical material in the Psicina area. This company is primarily engaged in low construction works and decided to purchase after a thorough review of the documentation. However, despite the already produced environmental report, the decision on the selection of the concessionaire and the signed concession contract began to be complicated in obtaining the authorisation for exploitation. Ormož Municipality has begun the development of a state-owned site plan which also affects the area of purchased land for the gramogram cave. And despite having the environmental report produced in 2004, they had to order a new environmental report together with the Ormož municipality, because this part belongs to the Natura 2000 framework. Interestingly, the documentation was still valid until June 2007, and now it is no longer in the best form. So I'm really interested in how your employees look at these things. Is this a matter of deliberate speculation, or is it a matter of, I don't know, what kind of strange things we've been talking about today under some kind of legislative procedure or something like that? The fact is that several specific habitats set out in the Natura 2004 Guidelines are at risk here. On the other hand, I don't know how that makes sense, because there's going to be a road across this area that already has a building permit. On the other hand, they will drive 50 kilometers away and actually destroy what Natura 2004 is supposed to protect. I'm asking: What are you gonna do? Will you review these documents, documentation or anything like that? Because I'm guessing that - I'm not going to say that you are, but I think that some in your ministry are serving your life if I say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Victory Jelinčič! As a minister, I live in the belief that in my colleagues I have the right professional associates and that no one serves my life as you said. I'd like to answer your question. In particular, in the second part, you mentioned this European Natura 2000 network system, which is a very important environmental and protection instrument, which has the basis of the Birds Protection Directive and the Habitats Directive, which somehow oblige Member States to maintain these plant and animal species where this network is declared. With regard to your specific question concerning a location in the Ormož municipality, if I understood correctly, where you also mention that a building permit for a state road has been issued, and you also mention some other procedures, I would ask you to understand and get a more detailed answer in writing. Here is an important issue of the municipal spatial plan forward. You mentioned that the municipality is producing a state spatial plan. Maybe that's where the lapsus was. The municipalities are making municipal spatial plans under the new law. A detailed spatial plan may also be possible. In this case, in the case of gravel, it is necessary to obtain specific protection guidelines for a natural value or for an ecologically important area and to take into account the protection objectives. I'll take a look at how the procedure went down at our ministry, and we'll answer your question as well. If I understand correctly, the concession procedure has been completed and this investor has a concession. I have some experience in this region of Slovenia, when investors tried to find a way to get a good deal of sales and quantity in the area of Nature 2000, this is usually complicated. That's what I have to say. Therefore, I would also suggest that the possibility of looking again at whether there might be a sufficient amount of sales in the vicinity of this grammar room and whether it is of quality to be used by the investor there. This is at least a temporary solution because you also mention some construction of a road connection. Because apparently, the sale is needed very quickly. This is the solution that needs to be studied, but otherwise it is true for these areas of the Drava River, that in this area, if it is the municipality of Ormož, it is most likely that it is near the border with Croatia, another narrow segment of the river stretch itself, which was somehow intact. There are also some reeds, sleeves, and reeds in which some species of animals and plants have been endangered. Therefore, it was likely that this issue was complicated, as you mention. Allow me to give you a brief answer to a question related to the procedure itself. The self-implementation of this Directive is the responsibility of each Member State. We have two laws that stipulate this: the Law on Nature Conservation and the Law on Environmental Protection. However, there is also a small regulation on agriculture, forestry and spatial legislation that we can practically implement the obligations, as I said before, of deterioration or of preventing the deterioration of the situation in the field of plant and animal habitats, we are based on European commitments. Last year, at the proposal of our Ministry, the Government adopted the Natura 2000 Natura Management Programme for the period 2007, 2013. In this programme, we have set more detailed protection objectives, measures and implementers for each area. As it is said, these are based on different laws. We have also committed certain public institutions and public services to implementing these objectives. You are also asking about the guidelines in your question. These are the guidelines. However, after the Nature Conservation Act and in accordance with the Environmental Report Regulation, the compliance of the plan or the programme with these guidelines shall be clearly indicated in each environmental report. And then we take you into account in the preparation of plans and programmes. That's a broader, more systemic response. However, a concrete answer to your question would be provided in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u286	Thank you very much. I thank you, Mr Minister, for answering this question in writing and perhaps for some more concrete information. The fact is that this intended area for the use of this sand - the chaudre is located in the location of this new fast road Hajdin - Ptuj, about 50 meters away from the middle of the route. This is said to be questionable in itself if nature can interfere with the construction of the highway. For it is a matter of predominance of public interest. I think the Ministry of Environment and Space here has its word. And one more thing. Here the material would only be used during the construction of this highway, not later. Which is also a very relevant information. Well, thank you again very much for your willingness to give me a written answer. I hope it happens as soon as possible. But it would still make sense to examine your employees a little bit, because they don't hold on just to make sure everything's fine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u288	In July 2004, the former Government adopted a number of conclusions on the coordination of proposals, decisions on amendments and additions to spatial components, municipal planning acts with mandatory starting points of the spatial components of the long-term plan of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 1986-2000. I note that, in some cases, the Ministry of Environment and Space has not submitted all the expert opinions on the impact of changes in the spatial plan on the environment or on the specific protection area. In my opinion, this type of professional opinion has not been obtained or taken into account in many congregations. In 2005, I asked the competent minister whether the government would re-examine such cases or whether the Ministry was prepared to verify the procedures that had been taken place in July 2004. I also asked him how the Ministry would act if it found that the Government's conclusions were not in fact based on all the conditions on which they should be governed by law. In response, the Minister explained to me that such decisions do not need to be reconsidered or retained by the Government, as there is no legal basis for this. The government was able to determine the consistency of the draft amendments and to complement the spatial components of the municipal planning acts with the mandatory starting points of the spatial plan of Slovenia only until the implementation of the Spatial Development Strategy of Slovenia, which entered into force on 20 July 2004. You, Mr Minister, have committed yourself to this in your reply, and I quote: "As a minister, I am being asked such a legal question, and in some ways also a political question, in what way the current government can remedy any erroneous findings or other errors that have obviously been made in decisions concerning changes and additions to the spatial criminal acts of the municipalities. This will be one of my assignments in the future." That's why I'm asking you: How do you manage to carry out this task and how is it possible, in this context, that during this mandate, there have been positive decisions on environmental impacts by the Ministry of the Environment and Space, without taking into account all the professional opinions required and despite the fact that the above-mentioned reply indicates that the municipality will not be able to adopt a spatial implementation plan in the event of the inadmissibility of the proposed interventions in nature? The examples I am well aware of lead me to believe that some of the conclusions of the Ministry of Environment and Space were not adopted on the basis of professional arguments. It is worrisome, however, if the conclusions that may have a fatal impact on the environment are based on political decisions rather than on professional arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr Kokal, for this question, which is in a certain segment of the continuation of the question that you referred to me two years ago. Allow me to try to give you a very substantive and detailed answer to your question. However, I think the topic is very important for cases in some other Slovene municipalities. In the process of determining the consistency of decisions on changes and additions to spatial components, last year's acts of municipalities with national compulsory starting points have, as a rule, always included all ministries which are responsible for each area of compulsory starting points, spatial components, planning acts of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the legal provisions in force at the time, this was a different response to the Law on the Regulation of the Space, during which the 30-day period for the submission of an opinion at the request of the MoB was set. In cases where one of the ministries has not delivered an opinion within the statutory time limit or has been uncoordinated, the Government has taken the appropriate decision in accordance with its powers. This was always based on a verification of whether the opinions given were based on correctly defined legal regimes. It has also happened that the opinions were not based on the legal regimes in force, but on professional definitions, which have not been verified by the adoption of a legal regulation or legal regime. There was an expert interpretation, an expert opinion that did not have a basis in a law or a sublaw. The government's decisions taken in the conclusions on coordination, therefore, according to our belief, and I repeat the answer from two and a half years ago, cannot be changed. We don't see the legal basis for this in marriage. However, I am now answering you with the answer you are giving me on the basis of a quote from my reply in the first question. However, if in specific cases it is found that a decision has been taken to break the law, it does not oblige either our own or any other ministry not to act in accordance with the Law of the State Administration or the Law on Local Self-Government in terms of the abolition of the found illegality. So if we or any other department were to receive an initiative to control the legality of the spatial act, where there would be a violation of the law, we would, of course, react. In some Slovene municipalities - more than ten of them - this has happened in our mandate. It should also be clarified that, in the coordination procedures, the Government has examined the content relating to the planning level of the proposed decisions on amendments and additions to spatial components of the planning acts. However, the opinions put forward by the competent ministries to these acts were several times more detailed, hierarchically subordinate, i.e. the implementation level of the planning. It was also possible, therefore, that the government agreed on a planned level with the proposed spatial arrangements. However, she also warned the municipality that a more detailed spatial implementing act would need to take into account the conditions and orientations of individual operators of space regulation at the implementing level. This meant that, in further planning at the implementation level, for example in the preparation of the site plan, the municipality could not avoid some new procedures. In this case, an environmental impact assessment, for example. However, by adopting the new Spatial Planning Act, it is even more specified than in the previous Act that all applicable legal regimes must be taken into account when planning. It is also worth noting that both aspects of planning are planned, one is planned, and the other is implementing that they have somehow merged under this new law. For each location, the so-called spatial implementation conditions will also be set for a new location. In procedures that are more than one, we find in our ministry that individual ministries and other agents of space regulation still do not fully comply with these new provisions of the law and, in their guidelines and opinions, as legally binding, refer once again to certain requirements which are not based on the applicable law or on this law based on a sub-legislative law. Well, in such a case, of course, it is necessary to work and coordinate so that these guidelines are fully in line with the legislation in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u292	I'll be specific. On 20 December 2007, the Ministry of Environment and Space concluded that the environmental impacts caused by the implementation of the second phase of a business zone's location plan would be acceptable. The Ministry of Nature Protection of the Republic of Slovenia is responsible for this area. 8. 2007 sent an opinion on the acceptability of the impact of the implementation of the plans on the environment, in which the final part stated that the plan with the envisaged restrictive measures would not ensure a sufficient reduction of the negative impacts on the protected Natura 2000 area and that environmental objectives would not be ensured. The proposal by the Slovenian Institute for Nature Protection was to reduce the scope of the zone by at least half. It should be pointed out that the zone lies in a geographical area of a few feet [10 m], and that it is waterproof over the only water source of the neighboring congregation. Of course, an additional question is raised here, which is not only related to this mandate. How is it possible for the Ministry of Environment and Space to implement the Law on State Administration, the Law on Local Self-Government and other special laws in a qualitative manner? This segment does not appear to have significantly improved the control of the legality of the functioning of the municipalities in this mandate. There are more and more cases when citizens and even members of the congregation councils turn to us. They claim that they are left to the mercy and apathy of the legal acts of the municipalities, which do not even have the basic legal elements, but rather to the consistent content. However, they have great consequences for the individual and the congregation as a whole. So that I am also thinking about this segment, given that the issue is becoming more and more acute and broad and also more complex than we can understand from the discussion and that it actually links the previous and current mandate in order to bring this answer to a broader debate in Parliament. That's what I suggest.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u293	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u294	Thank you very much. First of all, given the more specific answer to your question, just because it touches on an obviously specific process, it should obtain more data and then we can elaborate all the procedures in very detail. This is about your first part of the additional question. With regard to the second part on the control of the legality of the municipalities, and you say that you are assessing that it has not improved, I must say that, especially our Directorate for Space, although it also has a number of other obligations under the new Law on Spatial Planning, has taken this task very seriously and responsibly. Thus, to be over the legality of municipal spatial acts and, of course, to receive a clear initiative at any time, it immediately goes into control of the legality of a specific spatial act of the municipality. A number of them were made in this mandate. I think it's the only right way. The law gives us jurisdiction. We are trying to enforce it as much as possible. My expectation, however, is that, of course, the congregations, the councils, will issue legal spatial plans. After all, it is always a protector, as they go through government procedure. We are now talking about two procedures. One is tied to that very dynamic month in July 2004, when almost a hundred such acts were adopted very quickly because it was then that a regulation came into force that stopped these procedures. At the same time, new procedures are under way under the new Spatial Planning Act, which I believe is good. That's my additional answer to your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u295	Thank you. As I understand it, you have a procedural proposal. On the proposal by Mr Kokal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the space to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of the vote on Friday, 25 April 2008. Mrs Lovtijar Bebler has the floor to ask the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u296	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In recent times, police have increasingly pointed to unsustainable situations in their ranks. This is also shown by the departures from the police. That's why I'm asking you, Minister, Mr. Mate: How many police officers and police officers left the police types in the first three months of this year? How does leaving, I believe, affect the safety of citizens and citizens and other people living in Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u297	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for asking. I'll try to be as short as I can. First, I would like to say that from the end of 2004 until today, 316 more police officers are employed in the Slovenian Police than at the time. During this period we hired 1,064. About half of these were intended for Schengen police officers. Others were employed at other police stations inside. In the first three months of this year, 29 police officers and police officers left the police. Of these, 24 have terminated their working relationship with the body in its composition, the police. The others have retired. As we look at the trends that await us this year, the Ministry of Police has made a call for the admission of new candidates. This call is under way to replace those policemen who will retire this year. And if the number that will come through the selection processes is not enough, this call will be repeated this year, so that we can ensure this flow of personnel. Only the work of the police or the performance of the police are measured in different ways. One way is through public surveys or peer review of how satisfied the population is with the work of the police. These things are all present and published on our websites. Fortunately, I can say that the state of citizens' satisfaction with police work is good. It is as it has been in recent years, and it is comparable to several years ago. So this situation is pretty high. At the same time, I must say that I find it very difficult to accept the allegations that the police are being abandoned by the police because of the poor conditions. Every living organism that has employees has procedures when people leave their jobs, they go to some new jobs, to some new challenges. According to the number of police personnel who are practically 9,500 people, of which almost 8,000 are uniformed police officers and criminals, the number 29 police officers and police officers in the first trimester is a completely normal and acceptable number for the fluctuation of personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u299	Thank you. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, do you have a request for an additional reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u300	Thank you very much. So, I took note of some of the data published on the Ministry of the Interior portal, and I read the number of police officers 7971 per day, 31.12.2007. Looks like we're dealing with different data. And there's one more thing. The idea of that question I asked you, Mr. Minister, I got it from the police. Many have warned me that the situation in the police is bad, that working conditions are difficult because of the many police departures, because then others have to do all of this work. Apparently, quite a number of policemen went to work in the Slovenian Army because they were better paid there. Police officers are poorly motivated to work due to poor salaries. That's what they say. They are not particularly motivated to expose themselves in dangerous circumstances. The police I have spoken with have estimated that the safety of our citizens is diminishing in everyday life. For the last time in January's session, you claimed that the investigation of crimes and offences had risen compared to previous periods. And the police tell me that, for example, if a driver or a passenger is caught, for example, not being tied up in a car, you are statistically considered to be one of the investigated acts. You know all those jokes and terrible truths about statistics. You've also argued that you're bridging the shortage of police officers with various organizational arrests. But in the long run, this lack of police can certainly not be replaced only by organizational arrests. So are you planning any concrete measures to reduce police departures and obtain more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u301	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u302	Thank you for that additional question. Of course, we have about 9,500 employees in the police force. Of this, as you read on the website, at the moment the employees of 7,934 police officers - I said we must separate - in the structure of the employees in the police. And we don't operate on different data. But we're talking about the same numbers. I'm talking about the number on yesterday, how many employees were there. You asked me about the first three months. I told you exactly how many police officers left the police force from 1.1. to 31.3. And that's exactly 29 cops and cops and nothing more. So we're talking about the same numbers. As to how many people have left the police force and gone to work in the Slovenian Army for better wages, better working conditions - as you say - and other reasons, statistics are extremely clear: last year, the Slovenian Army hired 5 Slovenian police. There are probably some people registered this year. I don't know exactly because people can apply for jobs themselves. Only when they're hired elsewhere can we possibly get information from where they got their jobs. We don't know about that. So I can't answer you if and how many people in the Slovenian police are looking for a job in the Slovenian Army. However, I would like to make it very clear about mixing some concepts. I'm sorry to say that. However, if a person is unattended in a vehicle, the offence is not a crime. And we don't count crimes as crimes. We don't even show them in statistics. Because crime statistics are crime statistics and not crimes. Here you can check extremely precisely in statistics, what was entered, how was entered, which day was entered. Statistics can't be fixed back. Fortunately, systems are so well-designed that they cannot be adapted and it is always verifiable even years ago what happened to some statistics. And this is where it happened that the investigation of crimes in this year or 2007 is better than in 2006. This is a statistical probability that does not indicate that all acts have been investigated. But the trend is rising. That's probably good. Otherwise, it must also be made clear that not all police stations are equally burdened. The most burdened is the Ljubljana Police Administration. The Ljubljana Police Administration detects or deals with approximately 50% of all crimes, as well as offences and other acts throughout its territory. In this police department, we also face the biggest questions about how to humanely complete some police stations. We've done something to remove some of the administrative obstacles.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u303	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Sašo Pece will now ask the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Economy a question. Since the Minister of Economy is not, I ask, Mr Pece, will you still ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! I addressed identical questions to the Government or, rather, to the President of the Government in writing on 10 April this year. Why do I ask oral questions this time? Because the date of the Petrol Congregation is approaching indefinitely. Personally, I am one of those who claims to be customerism and corruption in our country. Personally, I am also one of those who claims that all transactions will be disclosed and given in a year or two in general. What am I talking about? Mr. Bajuk, I know you know that the Petrol Supervisory Committee has proposed a transition to the so-called single system. The unitary system, for which the Government, and not least the economic profession, at the time of acceptance of the matter, said that it was suitable for companies where consolidated ownership or better stated ownership of known owners or one owner. This company Petrol - we know that with the transition to a single system, if it succeeds with the assistance of the Government, in other words, with the consent of the Soda and Kad, which have one 8.27% ownership, and the other with 19.75% ownership of Petrol - will allow this company to land in the hands of five or six individuals. We're not talking about Petrol as a small company of private owners. I'm talking about Petrol, the All-Slovenian Oil Company. From this address, Mr. Bajuk, I ask you as a member of the Government for the first time to answer me: In any event, will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in this case, identify the evidence or concerted operation of owners, some of the owners of Petrol, in the existing equity system? And the second time: Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where the Government will also use its power and prevent the proposed decisions by the Petrol Supervisory Committee to carry out the Assembly and thus to carry out the takeover without taking over some - and I do not want to be rude when I say - young friends of the President of the Government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u305	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u306	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! True, the Petrol Supervisory Council has adopted this decision. The Assembly will discuss this decision or project in order to introduce such an administration in Petrol as is envisaged in our legislation to decide on it. I think in the near future. If not next week, in the coming days. This in itself is an option - as I said - which is open in law. As far as your assessment or some experts are concerned that this would not be the right approach for such companies is questionable. Otherwise, I would just like to warn you - that such a thing is accepted, a special majority is needed. If I'm not mistaken, it's 75%. The Assembly will decide on this matter. In the Assembly, however, the Government does not directly have its representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u307	Thank you. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u308	The three-quarters majority is the one that decides within the Assembly to move from a multi-track to a single system. Mr Bajuk, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the owner of the Soda and Kad, who have their representatives in Petrol, would want to prevent this matter, then the time is now until the three-quarters majority is formed. As long as this is not the case, the three-quarters majority in the next six years under Petrol will no longer be able to invoke or carry out, unless one of the connected persons ensures its participation. It's a classic arrangement between capital owners. At this point, I fear that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also involved in the pursuit or pursuit of certain personal, partial interests. But I would like to point out what I think is most important: So, will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has power over the Soda and Kadam - before I count your equity shares, resist this takeover without taking over? And secondly: Will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the sent question has been addressed to you, find incompatibilities or prohibitions on the coordinated operation of capital on the basis or where the Office of Competition Protection should react? And as a competent minister, I ask you, after all, as a member of the government: Since this exercise is taken over by palm clienteleism, will you at least take action here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u309	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u310	Thank you very much. The Act on takeovers in the amendment that has already been adopted, not only in this new proposal to amend the Act on takeovers, which the Government has now adopted in April - if I am not mistaken - at this second meeting of this month, will also be subject to consideration in this National Assembly in the near future. There will also be the possibility of further discussion on this matter. The fact is, however, that the concept of harmonised behaviour of owners is. The securities market agency should be reviewed. If the Assembly is convened and there is a specific topic on the agenda, if two or more vote equally or accept it, it is not yet the coordinated conduct of the owners in this respect as you presented it. In any case, Slovenia has its own authorities to keep an eye on these things. And I hope the agency will give its report in time, which I see you're particularly concerned about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u311	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Well, the office and the agency obviously don't respond. That's the problem. I expected you to say in response that under the takeover legislation, the Company Act, the prevention and limitation of competition and, last but not least, the takeover law, you will protect this Slovenian company. Mr President, I apologize for taking advantage of this procedural option.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u313	Thank you. Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u314	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, Madam Minister and distinguished ladies of the Ministers! Modern medical equipment is now an emergency in hospitals and other health institutions. This equipment is usually expensive. And it is with the help of such equipment that much depends on timely detection of many diseases, especially the most difficult ones. Therefore, the tendency and trend are also the efforts of each such institution to have as much modern medical equipment as possible. I am pleased that the Ministry of Health is also aware of this fact and these needs. It was in the media that the Ministry of Health was expected to join the co-financing of many expensive modern medical equipment across Slovenia, through many hospitals and other institutions. So please, Madam Minister, if you can give us a more detailed explanation: What kind of medical equipment is this, and which institutions, from hospitals and other health institutions, will receive these equipment? In doing so, I also express the joy and satisfaction that you will contribute to better hospital equipment with such equipment and, finally, to better diagnose the search for disease signs for our patients. This will certainly help to improve the treatment of our patients. For, as I have already mentioned, timely diagnosis is a major contribution to successful treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u315	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u316	Dear Mr. President! Dear Member Ivan Grill, thank you very much for the question. Dear Members and Members! We're working in two directions at the Ministry. First of all, how do you make more effective use of that equipment that's already in hospitals? On the other hand, we have identified the most critical needs in hospitals, and we want to perfect them. Let me first mention that during the procurement process there is a neonatal station and equipment for newborns, namely hospitals or both, the Maribor Clinical Center and the Klinicki Center Ljubljana, Prodniško Kranj, Prodnišnica Postojna, Celje, Izola, Novo Gorica, Jesenice, Novo mesto, Ptuj, Slovenj Gradec, Brežice, Murska Sobota and Trbovlje. We are in the process of acquiring CTs, i.e. computer tomographers, first of all for the Trbovlje hospital, which has this need outstandingly expressed. There are also Murska Sobota Hospital, Topolšica, and some of them are in question with a precise definition and proof of needs. We delivered for all the hospitals below. For all 25 hospitals. Especially so that patients can have time, say, to watch TV. If they are a little innovative in hospitals, i.e. these larger screens, they will be able to put these health awareness programs there, so that in some way, when it's time, you can look at it, because unfortunately we still don't know how to be speciesless in waiting rooms. And the next thing you know, it's internet sites. In all hospitals, in all 25 where the need for this has been expressed. These internet sites are also intended for patients to access the Internet and, in the meantime, to do some distance work. What might be funny to someone to hear. It's an adaptation of sanitation. What I'm saying is they're also from the Maria Teresa era. In the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana, New Town, Ptuj, Golnik, Topolšica, Idrija, Jesenica, Brežica, Maribor, Trbovjah, Kranju, Psychiatric Clinic Ljubljana, Hospital Sežana, Celje, Slovenj Gradec and Murska Sobota. This is where the Ministry will fund up to a certain limit. In this context, institutions must also regulate this area within a clear time frame. Because we like to forget that at home we are used to a very high standard. But when we get to the hospital, where we're already so hurt, then I believe that it bothers all of us. So these are the things that might be a little bit smaller. Let me also mention that, for children, the Ministry of Defence also earmarked about a million and a half euros for incubators. So this is where we work with the Ministry. Likewise, we, the Ministry of Health, co-financed part of the investment in the Faculty of Maribor of 800,000 euros. This is where we go against each other as much as we can. Well, and another thing that's up-to-date for today, because we started with the Dora program, this is organized breast cancer transplantation, it will also be about getting this mammogram that will be mobile, because, say, accessibility across Slovenia will be easier. Otherwise, we want this concentration, this way of working towards these results, so that women's morbidity and mortality will be reduced, because today's method of using these mammograms, which have actually been everywhere, has not produced positive results.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u317	Thank you. Ms Majda Potter will present or ask the Minister for Education and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u318	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr Minister, Madam Minister and Second Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! It will not be the first time that I have asked Mr Minister Milan Zver a question regarding employment in education. If this is the first time that this issue has been related to his district, how is it the ministry that agrees to new employment, today my question is focused on another issue. It would be a mistake to think that the secondary space has not been able to detect the decline in the population of children enrolled in secondary schools for a long time, since this is a purely natural legacy of small generations, and primary schools have long had to face it. And so the teaching profession is no longer one of the safest professions, but there is also concern for jobs in the teaching chambers. This was first shown by the fact that more than 80% of new jobs are fixed-term jobs. Which then does not appear to be unemployment in such a drastic form. Especially if it lasts longer, but still. Last year, 81 high-school teachers were out of line. The question is raised between the secondary teaching population and other professionals whether the Ministry of Education has an analysis of how the need for staff may move over the coming years to respond adequately to potential staff surpluses. The fact is, the wishes of nine students do not go the way the school ministry would have wanted. Thus they do not have a high school, especially those of the most famous high school in Slovenia, no problems with applications. While there are many other schools, vocational high schools also have a well - established problem with the acquisition of pupils. The question is: What exactly will it be like with these teachers or with other professional colleagues - I stress in particular, for them too - in the future? And I ask you, Mr. Secretary, Do you believe that concern is justified, and how many high - tech employees can become technologically high? Of course, I expect you to explain: What measures are you planning to reduce the number of potentially unemployed?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u319	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u320	Dear President, honourable Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking whether concern is justified in relation to employment and technological surpluses in particular in the field of secondary education. I think it is. In view of demographic trends and a few more years, we will be witnessing a drop in the number of students. Of course, this certainly also affects the movement of employees in secondary school. Entry is just one of those key factors that affects the number of employees. Otherwise, at least two laws regulate this matter. The Labour Relations Act and the ZOFI. I can say that both of you are trying very clearly to define some systemic and organisational conditions under which someone can lose their job. More or less business reasons. This is when the entry is smaller, when the school programme is changed, and when standards and standards and educational conditions change. However, it is necessary to say that before the school, the school’s world, the highest authority of the school finds a higher level, we are also trying to find or prevent the identification of technological surpluses in different ways. One of the ways that is also legally justified is to reduce the workload by up to three hours. The second is that a worker, a teacher is sought or a teacher is sought for additional employment in other schools or kindergartens. And the third is that some teacher can also teach up to 40% of the prescribed learning obligation of any other subject. These are all three ways the ZOFI regulates. In this way, it contributes to preventing too many technological surpluses or too many technological surpluses. However, the following needs to be done. Let's say last year there were such technological surpluses of 81. In theory, we could expect something similar to this year’s demographic trends and perhaps a few years later. Why are we so sensitive here? Just because Slovenia is one of the few countries in Europe where there are no problems with teachers. Well, we still have enough in the school system. Many Western European countries, as well as Scandinavian countries, are suffering from a severe shortage of teaching staff. We are certainly aware of the fact that we are living in a transitional period where the number of students and students is slightly lower. However, a few years later, the situation will be reversed, and it would certainly not be good for us to see these years unprepared, or too few teachers, if we are now mass leaving the school system. So we're thinking about some of the measures. Among others, on the strategy of lower vocational and vocational education, where we will definitely have to reduce standards, the number of students in the class. We are also thinking about some extra hours that the state would pay to institutions, schools, to reduce, say, classes or class sharing and give some extra hours. This would certainly contribute to the class. For example, it would be one of such appropriate approaches to keeping teachers in the system while, at the same time, we believe, this would certainly affect the quality of education. Because, in particular, high school space is disbursed. Many new approaches are needed. An ever-increasing degree of need to personalise a student, approach. Because there are also different needs and interests and abilities. In short, we're looking for options and ways. At this point, we are slightly prevented from developing a comprehensive strategy, including negotiations with trade unions. However, I hope that we will create some -- let me put it this way -- some appropriate system environment where we leave the school system.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u321	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u322	Thank you, Minister, for this part of the answer. Well, since you've already put the union on my tongue, then I have to ask you. The union has asked you to prepare an analysis of the human resources movements and possibilities of solving more than the needs in the teaching area. Well, he didn't get an answer to that question in the school space. This is probably not only due to wage negotiations with trade unions, but it is likely that there is another reason why these analyses have not been carried out, given that we have never received an answer to what the school network or the network of student homes will be. It was probably a lapsus when you said that high school teachers could work in other schools and kindergartens. And this has enabled me to say that I am also concerned about the extremely high number of unemployed in kindergartens. She's in 240, 248 preschool teachers. Actually, 244, because only four are men. So it could also raise the issue of employment and employment in education and the education system in general. But as it is said, for now I am interested in secondary schools, where, say, there is also a group of social educators or graduate sociologists. The ones who are often out of work. But were you serious when you said our teachers were supposed to go abroad? I am asking you after those friendly measures when, after all, by amending the Law on the Organisation and Financing of Education and Education, you yourself have made it very, very difficult to achieve a smaller number of students and students in secondary schools through the funding system after the education participant. Do you think these two measures are not going in the opposite direction?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u323	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u324	Despite my best faith, I didn't understand the question very well. I've been trying to explain to you that we're creating some systemic conditions that would be and that are also quite good for teaching. As far as the pay is concerned. For these reasons, teachers themselves would not voluntarily leave the school system. Today we had, say, an Austrian minister and a delegation on our visit. And we compared the situation with us and with them. Ours are comparable to the Austrians. They're even worse in Italy than in Austria. Sort of. In this respect, we also have a very good situation after the burden of teachers, on wages and under other working conditions. We want to preserve this situation just so that teachers do not abandon us in a mass way. However, when the conditions for a person to lose his job are laid down, then the world, the highest body of the institution, must decide, as in all other public institutions and private companies. It would be difficult to find another public sector where such a level of sensitivity would solve these problems. I don't think there's really any reason for us to create some kind of climate here to try to prove that the Ministry of Education is unfriendly to teachers. On the contrary, during these long-term negotiations with trade unions, we can see that we are trying to do everything we can to create a proper working relationship for teachers. And that's what they have. Compared to other countries, including Scandinavian countries, the burden of teachers is very good, the working conditions are very good. Even if we compare teachers' salaries, they can be compared to the best in Europe. According to an index calculated by the OECD when comparing the gross domestic product ratio and the salaries of teachers, we belong to a group, together with Finland, Ireland, Belgium and similar countries. So, all of these are, say, relationships that create some status as a teacher, and I think it's good. There is no reason to panic or create situations that are not normal. I don't know if I've satisfied you with the answer. But I guess I'll have to try it another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u325	Thank you. Mr Kristijan Janc will ask the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Education and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Subject: Dangerous sections, criteria for determining the risks of pupils on their way to school. Pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 56 of the Basic School Act, the student of the first grade shall have the right to free transport irrespective of the distance of his or her residence from the primary school. In other classes, however, if the competent road traffic prevention authority finds that the safety of the student is at risk on his way to school. The Ministry of Education and Sport, together with the Republic Council for Road Traffic Prevention and Training, has already provided municipalities with criteria to identify the risks of students on their way to school, stating that the safety of pupils is at risk on virtually all state and local roads and that such transports are financed by the Ministry of Education and Sport, which has been carried out for only a few months. The municipalities also received internal instructions from the Ministry of Transport and Directorates for State Roads, which did not differ significantly. The Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council notes that, according to the applicable criteria for identifying student threats on the way to school, there are increasing demands for free transport of the student to school and that they must comply with almost all requests. The municipalities should therefore organise the transport of students to school, including from a number of settlements, which, by way of organised transport, would not be justified for reasons of distance. We also face similar problems in the congregation of Sevnica. Therefore, I ask you, or ask the Minister: Are there any more detailed and uniform criteria besides known criteria for identifying the risks and safety of pupils on their way to school in the whole country or, if not, why not? Who is responsible for preparing more detailed criteria and criteria? Is there a criterion for determining hazardous sections on regional and other state roads? What is the significance of determining dangerous compartments, especially in the countryside, of stray dogs and forest animals, a bear outside the area where the bear lives, wild pigs, glass foxes? In your opinion, is the current regime whereby individual municipal councils for road traffic prevention and education appropriate on the basis of rather vague criteria? And of course, given that the 1996 Ministry of Education and Sport directive still applies, and was not cancelled: Why does the additional transport costs not pay the competent ministry if it has given such criteria to local communities? I'm asking you for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u327	Thank you. Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u328	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Thank you, too, Mr Member, for the question. So, to your question about the criteria for determining the student's risk on the way to school, it is necessary to clarify that these have not been changed. Article 56(2) of the Basic School Act provides that, as you yourself said, the student has the right to free transport, regardless of the distance of his or her residence from the primary school, in the first grade, and in the other classes, if the competent road traffic prevention authority finds that the safety of the student is at risk on his or her way to school. In cooperation with the Ministry of Education, the Council of Prevention and Education has prepared criteria for identifying the risks of pupils on their way to school who have not changed to date. Apart from already known and harmonised criteria, there are no other more specific criteria. In our view, it is also not possible to draw up more detailed criteria that would apply to all areas, since the local specificities that are best known and taken into account by the Municipal Council for Road Traffic Prevention and Training. The Municipal Council for Prevention and Training must review each relationship and on the spot, on the basis of the density of traffic and the technical characteristics of the road and of course other important factors that you have mentioned, assess whether the route is safe or not. The answer to the question of who is responsible for preparing more detailed criteria and criteria is covered by Article 56 of the Basic School Act, which is, of course, the Municipal Council for Road Traffic Prevention and Education. The introduction of transport due to hazardous school routes has, of course, significantly improved the safety of children since 1996, when this was established, since the number of dead children has decreased significantly. At the Ministry of Transport, we believe that there are many ways to improve the situation, including by increasing the activity of local prevention and road transport councils. In doing so, it should be pointed out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 22 of the Road Traffic Safety Act, the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council is a local community body composed of representatives of the local community's council and users and performers of road traffic prevention and training tasks from local communities. So the municipal councils for prevention and road transport education are, of course, crucial. However, I must say that the Ministry of Transport has recently been carrying out many activities to make better use of this particular municipal council, not only in this area, but also in all other areas of road safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u329	Thank you. Does the Minister of Education and Sport want to add anything? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u330	Thank you for your word. Thank you also for the question, Mr Member. Mr Minister has answered the question very well, so there is not much to add. More or less, it's pretty clear. In 1996, the legislator decided to do what he did. All children, except in the first grade, when they actually have a free ride more than four kilometres away from school, are the founder, this is the local community, which is obliged to provide free transportation to school and all others, if they are dangerous routes. But the purpose of this was to encourage the congregations to remove dangerous routes and to develop their road infrastructure in such a way that it would no longer be dangerous. That means we'd make sure the kids get to school safe. Investing in road infrastructure would, as a result, avoid the costs they have and must pay by law. Well, let me just add that another category called the big beast is the danger of going to school because of the big beasts. This is about the bear in particular. If there is a school trip through the area of the brown bear's living space, for example, in this case the Ministry of Education is obliged to cover this cost. I think that this system is quite orderly, it is also stimulating for local communities, which are so stimulated to invest in road infrastructure to make the way to school safer for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u331	Thank you. Mr. Janc, please, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u332	Thanks for the answer. But I must say, you haven't told me any of what I wanted to hear from you. However, I believe that the 1996 Rules apply. This was also done when the State financed it. After a few months, she simply put an end to it and put all the burden on the local community. What is a dangerous section or a dangerous trip to school — every trip to school is theoretically dangerous, and crossing the road is a dangerous journey to school. And formally impose these obligations on the local SPV to assess what is the local dangerous path and what is not. You know, this responsibility some local SPV will not take over and will simply please: "Yes, it is a dangerous path. Municipality, the mayor provides school transport." We are the municipality that pays the most in the structure of the school transport budget, 750 000 euros, the number is impressive in the Slovenian space, not just Sevnica, many of them. The roles are coming, the parents are becoming increasingly aware, the first class is both a commitment, for other dangerous routes, and this in practice poses a major problem for Slovenian municipalities. Big problem, believe me, maybe they haven't gotten to you yet. My fellow mayors have come to me. What can we do? And theoretically, it means that certain congregations of all pupils can take them to school. Do you know what that means? Catastrophe for the budgets of local communities. But in theory, you're right, it says so, as you said, but in practice this is completely different, and that parents also take dangerous bears, pigs and so on and formally whoever says that there is no bear, and pigs, and even students don't say it, because, so it's a dangerous trip to school, but it's only 500 meters. These are practical problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u333	Thank you. Can I help you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u334	I fully understand, in particular, some municipalities that have a specific configuration are deprived of visas to municipalities that are slightly more urban. This should certainly be arranged differently by the legislator. For example, by law on the financing of municipalities, they said years ago that by compulsory spending, with the money that is calculated on the municipality, also the activity of primary education, primary education, that this is arranged, but there are too many differences between municipalities, so that the law, one such act, could cover all of this together and take into account. That's why I completely understand you. Well, as the Minister mentioned earlier, we have now for a while now, maybe two years, a little too long, we are thinking about how to find a slightly more efficient model for financing these transports, not only in the area of the eligible primary education, but also in private education, here the state is spending a lot of money, along with the local communities for these activities, but I think they have the most profits for carriers, not to benefit those who are entitled to these benefits, and these are in particular students. And I hope that we will find a model where different forms of transfers from different points - from the environment ministry to transport, to work and even education - will be able to find a common approach and the effect will certainly be greater. Maybe something could be saved here, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u335	Thank you. And the Minister of Transport, would you like that? No, no, no. Mr Miran Potrč will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, in early March, after my assessment, I received a concerned and sad letter about six tenants from Maribor who reported that in the course of the denationalisation they had first received a notice from the owner of the apartment that the apartment had not been nationalized and could be sold, that this apartment had been notified that the apartment had been sold, bought the apartment, paid the purchase, arranged the property, and received a notice that it was later found that the application for denationalisation had been filed, lost the purchase, received a notice from the new owners that they were ready to sell the apartment again, and are now without a purchase, and the tenants, as they were in 1990 when their calvary started. I thought it was best to inform you about this and ask you: Will the judiciary react in similar cases, perhaps in a legal way, and propose a law that will also correct such injustices? I got an answer I didn't understand. In your reply, you stated that everything relates only to the timely resolution of denationalisation claims, which is certainly not true in a particular case. Even today, it is not known whether the application for denationalisation was timely, and the municipal administration has put them on hold. Even today, it is not known whether the applications were not timely and were recognized as timely. In any event, six families who have bought apartments in good faith that these apartments have never been nationalized are not guilty of anything for the condition they are in. They didn't have the rent paid back, and the renting of the apartment they made, they made a lease, because there was a threat that they would throw them out of that apartment they once bought. Mr. Minister, since there was no answer, I ask you once again: Does the government know such cases? And: Does it consider that in such cases it would also be the responsibility of the State to adequately protect the interests of affected citizens and citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u337	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u338	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the National Assembly. Thank you also for the question raised, honourable Member. At the time of the introduction of the democratic regime in Slovenia, the democratically elected assembly adopted a policy to address the injustices caused by the previous regime, in particular through various asset-taking measures. It was measures that did not meet any of the requirements of the fundamental standards of protection of rights in force in democratic countries. The Denationalisation Act has undergone a number of constitutional review procedures for all its essential solutions. It is undeniable today that the law is based on all standards of protection of rights and legal order, also in line with the views of the international community, in particular the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Constitutional Court has also found that the purpose of the Denationalisation Act is to remedy the injustices committed by the State to owners of private property during and after World War II. Yes, the Constitutional Court makes it clear that the law on denationalisation is based on the principles of the rule of law that enforce justice, i.e. the elimination of the wrongs caused by the confiscation of property. Therefore, the law on denationalisation cannot in itself be the reason for the situation. Surely, though, there is a reason for the situation that you illustrated that the denationalisation issues were not resolved in time. Today a nice number of years since the Act on Denationalisation was passed. It was adopted in 1992. The law said the deadline for its entry into force was one year. Many governments have struggled with rescue. We wanted to accelerate the resolution of these matters precisely so that the cases you just spoke about do not occur. As you know, this law on the completion of the procedures for the recovery of held assets has not been adopted. Of course, every marriage can also make mistakes, including many other laws, in any marriage. Even with such important laws as the Criminal Procedure Act. We've had cases like this. The Denationalisation Act provides very precisely for this purpose. However, judicial protection is also provided. The settlement of a dispute in which at least two parties to the dispute are involved is usually not equally acceptable to both parties. However, in the denationalisation process, in accordance with the rule of law, all parties can effectively protect their rights. In each specific case in which the injury occurred, any infringements of the rules which were clearly committed in the case in question and the other conduct of the participants in the denationalisation procedure must be verified. However, such violations do not justify the need for a new system-wide correction of the injustices to be caused by the Denationalisation Act. In the present case, it was obviously a misappropriation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u339	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Potsch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, your answer is typical, given the views you've taken so far. I'm not surprised, but I must say, I'm not disappointed either. It is true, however, that it is difficult to understand, even to be hurt, that only a unilateral answer is possible, which understands that everything was ideal and that nothing has happened, which would also cause a situation that individuals could not resolve. All that is said is that an individual law also causes extreme injustices, all that is said to be solved by judicial proceedings, all that is said to be possible is that something is also wrong. All are answers that do not understand these concrete people. Mr. Minister, I would like to ask and expect you to understand their position as well. Since you have not so far, I ask you: Are you at least prepared for this particular case that you have the information contained in this letter to determine under the authority of the Ministry what procedures have been taken to make it possible to do so? Because all the truths were flowing, all the justices were lost with very, very flat-rate answers, as was yours today. Perhaps, though, there has been an injustice that would have helped these six families to bridge and resolve it, for no one has understood and respected their position so far. So I ask you for an additional answer: Are you at least willing to find out the actual situation and see how to help solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u341	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u342	Thank you also for this additional question, honourable Member, and thank you also for your word, Mr President. Mr Member, as you well know that the Minister of Justice cannot and cannot interfere with specific issues and specific procedures, nor can he analyse them. In order to respect the principle of the division of power, the Minister of Justice must not carry out specific administrative procedures and specific proceedings before the Court of Justice. If I had done so, in this or any other case, the Minister would have come to the right of the opposition to intervene in the work of the judicial branch of power, which was eventually called upon to resolve it. I'm sorry, I really can't take this as an argument, and I'm sure you also know this very well. However, I have said that there must be ways to resolve such errors, and these errors must be resolved in a way that they can be resolved in this case or in another case, for example, in concluding, not least, civil law treaties or other treaties that may take place in this country, which may result in mistakes. If a country error occurs, legal remedies are also provided for.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u343	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will ask the Minister of Economy a question, but the Minister is absent. Will you still ask the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u344	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Madam Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Six months ago, I posed the first written question to Minister Viszak about the sale of property owned by the state, so it was property in TDR - Metallurgy, new owners and unfortunately I did not get satisfactory answers. In February this year, I asked again the question and also at this point the answers were not concrete in terms of justifying the purpose of selling this company to prevent the bankruptcy of the company, which should allow for further business and which should maintain the number of employees. Moreover, the commitments made by the new owner were linked to the long-term conservation of production capacities, the extension of the production programme and the implementation of the business plan, which also defined investments in new production programmes. Unfortunately, we have been able to monitor the negative news of this company for the last half of the year, from the new owners who first announced a forced settlement at the end of the year, and the bankruptcy of this company has recently been announced. It is a very high concern of the people who work in this company. It is a matter of predicting the loss of a type of job, as only a few ten employees are expected to remain in the company, either after the compulsory settlement or after the currently announced bankruptcy. Of course, this brings great concern, great commitments and, in view of the unconstitutional answers given by the Minister in his two written replies, I ask him again: How does it assess the strategy and effects of the sale of state shares in TDR - Metallurgy in Russia today, given the job provision, in view of the remuneration of small shareholders and the maximised sales price? I ask this in particular from this point of view, because not in the first, nor in the second, answer did he give me the value of the valuation of this company. The valuation of this company is assessed by assessing the value of the purchase over the estimated value as favourable. Of course, there is a question here about how it was possible to sell only parts of this company for several million euros, and it is still necessary to say that in the reply the Minister makes it clear that the sale of parts for the country was not acceptable, as it is supposed to happen exactly what is happening now. This is to prevent bankruptcy now, because bankruptcy would then lead to the sale of active parts of this company. Of course, I also specifically ask the Minister: What and how will he learn measures to avoid bankruptcy, of course? And: In what way will he learn about measures to keep people's jobs, as was also stated in the undertaking to sell this company? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u345	Thank you. You want me to answer that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u346	I want him to answer me at the next session when he's present.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u347	The Minister will answer this question for you at the next meeting. Mr Happy Friend will ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u348	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, distinguished Minister! Hospitals in Slovenia and in general hospitals are city attributes. This does not need to be emphasized, however, if we are looking at new hospitals, if they are already built, unequipped and are generally poorly built, old decays, and new constructions that are under way, they are almost a national disgrace. Madam Minister, I ask you: Why is it allowed and continues to do such a bad job in this area? Because for the Trbovlje hospital you have lost 500 million euros budgeted, the Sežan hospital is actually falling apart, as we have already said several times, but nothing is happening, but the state owns these infrastructure facilities and in these hospitals are expensive appliances purchased by taxpayers, but they are almost inaccessible to normal mortals. However, if you are a self - paying person, you can immediately come into the examination process and, of course, be immediately inspected. I ask you, why do you allow such a mess? Why do you allow such a crime? For many who are poor must wait in the long line of waiting, not for inspection, but simply die. That's what's going on. If there is only one such case in Slovenia, it is a crime. And where is the right of those who have concessions to do checks on such expensive devices without problem, let's say about CT, for self-payers there is no problem, almost no waiting type. On the other hand, the question arises again whether this is actually legal. Not to say it's constitutionally controversial. Because according to the Constitution, all citizens and citizens are equal before the law. This need not be highlighted in particular. We know that. In short, Madam Secretary, tell me, when will the new hospitals be equipped? When will the new constructions, which are already becoming a national disgrace, actually begin and end? I mean especially pediatrics and oncology, which in some ways are already becoming a real shame to Slovenia. And: When will you prevent so-called black marketing? What I said before is a crime for me. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u349	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u350	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the question, Member Friend. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers. There must be a lot of counterfeiting in Slovenian medicine. I'm not running away from this. But I also understand you that it is possible to exaggerate with expression in order to make matters more understood. When we talk about national disgrace for all these hospitals that have been built for so long, we would have had time to talk about this shame for the last ten years because they have been built for so long. And this time, I say that there will be a neurological and paediatric clinic and an Cancer Institute that is settled, but not all things are yet settled. I say, and I say, this year with little luck, things must be done. That there was something unremarkable I also mentioned at the previous point, where I also exaggerated that the toilets from the time of Mary Teresa were. It is also one of the little things that we regulate and that national development programmes in which investments are made have been made and in which I simply cannot in the seven months of my ministry and, of course, I am not going to put everything on my head. But we are working consistently on those things that we can complete where we can achieve a result. Every hospital has a board of directors. If there are specific violations anywhere, I'd be happy if you let me know. Otherwise, concessionaires working in hospitals must have a clear contract in public institutions, and they must pay clearly for whatever resources they benefit from. There's absolutely no doubt about that. And if there's a case you don't think it is, please let me know. That is why we also have the Company Act, which also allows health care as a market activity and that we are lacking in regulation to define things, a wide range of things around it, especially in the Health Act, which must be a priority for this 15-year-old law to be complemented and may be able to resolve a number of issues that are particularly relevant today in relation to this transparency between public and private. But if we want, then the basic instruments remain, how the work is defined, how the use of public "resources" is defined, including equipment. The supervisory authorities are acting, as far as you think otherwise, I will really respond to your specific comments. So that we don't just talk like that, they're going to squander the Trbovlje and Sežan. Look, these are hospitals that have been proposed for decades. For Trbovlje, I know that a public partnership has been proposed. No one did that. And we're actually in the beginning and we need to find ways and we just can't find them overnight. There's about the same story in Sežana. I've been talking to the principal and the mayor, and so on, you know, it's always a matter of priorities and actions. Many things have been said, many have been written, decades and more, and none of this has been done. And something else to work on; what I will mention, waiting periods, waiting lists, computer science; this is what can contribute to the order in hospitals, but also this order will go in steps. I have measures that may be presented later on in the next question, for this area and for hospitals. In short, we do what we can to improve the situation. But I disagree, and the indicators do not indicate that the worst is possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u351	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u352	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you this very much on the committee, your mother's working body, and you're never there. That's why I have to ask you here. We could clear things up there. And look, I've been asking you if you're rich and sick, that's what I've been trying to tell you, and you've got a chance that you'll ever be healthy, but if you're poor and sick, you can be on a mole field pretty quick. You did not answer me why you allow, and now I specifically ask you: How many devices, expensive devices, which are given into the concessional relationship, are on self-paid use, and why are these devices not used for those waiting types, for the patients who are waiting because they are bought for them? Those who need the concession should obtain the basics, the administrative and technical conditions, the knowledge given to them by this or the previous country with favourable education and to carry out its private activity. How many of these expensive devices are there, tell me? And second. Look, in the Trbovlje hospital, why did you take half a billion euros from them? In 2005, these funds were approved in the budget. For Sežana, I specifically asked you, the Sežan hospital is sinking itself, windows and doors are from the time of Mussolini, literally from that period. The state owns this facility, you, as Minister of Health, are obliged to take care of this facility that is falling apart. I asked you this question: Why are you doing so badly, in fact, why is the country really everywhere where the owner is, really a bad master? And it is only a case that we can conclude that this is only happening in the red congregations. That's right. Just take a walk and you'll see. Isol was also and is still in red numbers today; not to talk about Sežana, not to talk about the Rippers, not to talk about the Jesenicas and so on. Please answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u353	Thank you. Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u354	Thank you very much for these additions. Nevertheless, let me say that the Presidency takes up a lot of time for the Union and we simply have to share matters within the Ministry. We need to share our activities with the Secretary of State and, of course, we are both authorized to attend such meetings. I, unfortunately, can't really come to the board if I could, if I didn't have a schedule like this, of course, come as I did in the past. And since this Presidency issue will somehow pass in two months, I am confident that there will also be more time for these discussions. Today, let me say the following: it would be difficult to speak as I see it written now about how it was in the Rippers. So it was never budgeted there, but from a public-private partnership that was somewhere in the clouds. That's it. And I have this information. I don't have any others. As far as Séžana is concerned. Every breakup of the wall is planned a few years ahead. Neither do we wait at home for the ceiling to fall down and go white, but of course we plan when something has to be done. And it's impossible for us to do everything that's missing at this time. To go in line with national development programmes and in line with those investments that need to be completed because they are open for so long. And we don't have human resources, not money resources, to open something new now. This does not mean that we are not preparing for the future, what is the power in these areas to do. And once again, about equipment, expensive equipment, these are CTs, these are MRIs. Any concessionaire may, even within the framework of an activity, not necessarily be a concessionary activity, as this can happen within the framework of the d.o.o., in the framework of health activities, must agree fairly with the contract and pay fair wages. And we cannot do that, nor do we want to prevent equipment that is not used to work in the sense that it should not be used. However, relations must be clear, transparent, cost-effective, not to the detriment of, or by chance, institutions and anyone. But, in fact, it's in the best interest of me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u355	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u356	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to discuss whether we will have a broader debate in the National Assembly because of this issue, which is obvious. Why am I saying this? Dear Minister, these facilities that are purchased in hospitals are for public health care, you know that. And it is not right that the patient waits because this device is 70% working on the bill and for the sake of a doctor who is also a tenant in the same premises and only 30% or even less for the needs of public health. That's what I was saying, and you don't want to hear it. And if you don't clear this up, we're just going to press charges, because your crime, or this unscrupulous or illegal execution, has resulted in death. And that's a crime. The second thing I wanted to remind you is that the Sežan hospital took 50 beds, even in the time of the Bajuk government, for patients in the Pulmological Department, and these beds were assigned to Šempeter and Isoli, who did not even have the appropriate experts, for the purpose of closing this hospital and not even the red government, and neither your so-called black government brought anything good to this hospital, only bad, ever more down. Even for those programs that we develop ourselves in a space like speleotherapy, do not let them spread. And that's what I'm talking about. We'd like to help ourselves, we'd like to rebuild this building, but unfortunately this is your infrastructure, state infrastructure, and it's not falling apart for a year, we don't ask for a year for a roof that leaves, we haven't asked for a window replacement for a year, we've been asking for more than a decade. I don't blame you personally, but for God's sake, in the sense of a good master, you have a duty to do something. The former Minister and you also say that you have come to know this situation, and it would be appropriate if you already know the problem of saving it. And finally, new hospitals, if they're already built are not equipped, you know that, and in fact those new constructions, for which we have already collected even self-contributions and earmarked budgetary resources, are not implemented. Not to mention the others I've already described are essentially in bad shape. And so, Madam Secretary, it will take a little more time, not only to go where something good happens, but sometimes to look at problems. I believe it reminds you of a problem that is not pink and I would like to invite you first to come to Sežana Hospital for a one-day visit, to walk together in the departments and see how many spaces are closed due to inadequate infrastructure conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u357	Thank you. On the proposal of Mr Friend's Member to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Health to his question of the matter, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of the vote on Friday, 25 April. Now he's gonna be a magician. Franc Žnidaršič asked the Minister of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u358	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, ministers, colleagues! I am asking the Minister the following question. I wonder: What are you going to do now that two insurance companies are offering and marketing supplementary health insurance to reduce waiting periods? How will you protect those who cannot afford to be insured for the third time? However, health establishments and individuals in the healthcare system in the country will undoubtedly extend waiting periods for all others who do not yet have such insurance with contracts with insurance companies after the third insurance. If we take away the fact that such supplementary insurance - the third will be paid primarily by the rich - it should be noted that they will come across the species clearly in the only health system that is owned by all and in which the poor will wait even longer without third insurance. The existing system allows only the rich to benefit from the compulsory work of all through the type and at the expense of the poor. It is not possible to agree to the situation where health money is used in a transparent manner, and institutions often operate without supervision, often without respect, such as the Labour Relations Act, which deals with working hours, its prudent exploitation, and on the basis of the spirit and will, which would limit almost sabotage. The Court of Auditors reports are eloquent. If you look only at the 2005 and 2006 report for the UKC, where only in 2005 over 18 billion tolls of health money were untransparent. It should be noted that the policy, investigative bodies and the prosecution are looking away. In doing so, the provisions of the Coalition Treaty on the Health Area are the dead letter on paper, since we are passing them, even though the developments are crying out after they are realized. Now, of course, there is very little time for some of the things in the contract, but it is still necessary to say so. If I mention only then and there a new basket of rights to resolve the issue of those who may be insured for the third time, for the fourth time and so forth. Of course, the responsibility of the management, which I think is not carried out in solidarity, is to raise funds for the mandatory part of the programme for which it should be returned from the supplementary programme what is not essentially there and without which the insurers cannot live, or even die if they cannot pay such insurance and so on. Please answer the question: To what extent will the Ministry's health policy measures go to protect those who do not have third insurance?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u360	Thank you very much for the question, Mr Znidaršič. Dear Members and Members, Mr President! The fact is that we have a new insurance product, which is not the first, because there have been many in the past, and if we are talking about the Mutual that was created by this insurance company, a common health insurance company, and that when the Mutual was set up, about 200 people, among other things, were employed by the insurance company at the ZZZS, and 1,000 people remained unaltered. I'm just gonna look a little wider. And now these insurance companies are here with all the legitimate rights that our legislation gives them, both the Health and Health Insurance Act and the Insurance and Control Agency, so that they can offer new products. In this case, I am not concerned about the building, nor about the equipment, I am concerned only about this transparency, which must be between public and private, regarding the use of the same human resources. And that's why we're moving on, too, in this case, with the Medical Service Act, where there will be clear limits to consent, when, where, who can work. Furthermore, the Health Act, long ago, would have been necessary in order to be a novel, has not yet been and this wishes to be the one that will define these conditions more precisely in the future. Otherwise, I have data here, in all of Europe, the combination of these insurancees is also legitimate, but it is that we need to know this public system and this accessibility issue of yours in an appropriate way with regulation to resolve it well enough. Certainly, legislative mechanisms are needed here, and on the other hand, the management and management of all processes and not just processes, including people who are employed in a particular institution. We are opening up these questions, as well as questions about the continuation of waiting times and waiting times. Here I have measures that have been taken by all agencies, are very short, only saily, very clear what institutions have to do, even in the field of waiting times, even in the area of that much can be done better only with better organisation and with a better relationship. We also have the Patients' Rights Act now. We also establish these regulations and structures at the Ministry, which have been defined in this law, so that in the coming months this will be done, however, you know how many hours are lost because we have a seemingly waiting period. Because then there are no people at the raids or hospitals in advance, let's say 14 days in advance, they don't call, they don't call, they don't check if people are reachable, what happened to them, and so on. In addition, we now have a group, defined by us, a national group that will define and write national criteria for waiting periods, in which there will have to be a word about everything you ask and at the same time the next group, the one that will define the dimensions, the criteria, and I do not expect this to be done very shortly, but at least during this year. By the end of the year, they're supposed to be the first results. As far as insurance is concerned once again, we can't stop it and we can't. Products are legitimate. It is up to us, it is up to policy to make all the legal conditions and other conditions so that transparency between public and private will be good, that is.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u361	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Žnidaršič? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u362	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister! I must commend you on the measures that have been taken by the health services of the Ministry in the past year, where you have given very careful warning in your instructions on the many areas of operation of health institutions. I believe there's a lot to be done with this. However, when it comes to the third waiting period insurance, I am not concerned with the legitimacy of this offer of insurance companies, they are acting market-oriented and have invented a new product, certainly because they will earn from this title, and ensure that this insurance reduces the waiting period. The problem is that you correctly note that you are concerned about what will happen to human resources if they move to deliver those services that will come first. From this title, it will necessarily have to deteriorate, thus extending the species for those who do not have such insurance. That's the question I'm worried about. And it's not just human resources, it's primarily public-gathered, it's solidarity-gathering money in the system that third-guarantees can certainly use sooner when it runs out, but the other two options are: that the insurance company will contribute additional funds or pay for itself. Both of them are problematic, and it is interesting what would happen, but if everyone is insured for the third time to reduce waiting lines - then we should introduce a fourth insurance, if not, nothing changes. And so on, I'd be increasingly drawn to the circle to benefit from health rights from the same system with the same money, the same money, the ones that pay more insurance more easily. And that's the most difficult question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u363	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u364	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. What's going on here is to mention the extraordinary pressure especially on the center, especially on the Clinical Center, that the waiting periods here are enormous. You know, all these problems come from new offers on the market, like they are. And we want to get to the national waiting lists, not with words, but with actions. That is why we are working hard not to talk here and to convince ourselves who is right, either the IVZ or the insurance company and so on, but to know what the real situation is, to know that we will be able to publish this reality, and that it is not necessary that we are all here in Ljubljana, but that it should be redeployed to Slovenian hospitals, that patients should also be reassigned, because waiting periods - sometimes they are not really for what is valid in Ljubljana for one year or two years, in another hospital there is no waiting period. And it's easy to find an opportunity then in the business of insurance companies, because we don't actually develop this health system evenly. And now it's also about a new marriage. As for the specialists, as far as distribution is concerned, because they are the only future source, now that we are back to human resources, that we must make such a system that these people will also want to be in Slovenia Castle, even in New Town, even in Murski Sobota. And this is the next solution, because if we, if we are well distributed, evenly across Slovenia, as much as we have infrastructure and everything, then the waiting periods are only for some interventions - let's say when we talk about knees, about hips, where people today register three, four years earlier than for the elderly's home, which is 10 years in advance, just in case they don't know if they're going to be space or not. And in fact, we have waiting days that are no longer a reflection of reality, but they are a reflection of the fear that when I need to, I will not be on my turn. And that's going to be more and more. You know, if not our products, they will be foreign because let's not forget that the free movement of services, people, doctors, personnel are already provided, even in the health field, but the free movement of patients is ensured by a court decision, not by a directive that all countries defend. So for once, we have an internal problem and we have to solve it. We are aware that this is what I'm trying to say that it's simply not a solution in one answer, but in the 10's, 50's of answers and "step by step" we're counting on that to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u365	Thank you. You want a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u366	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, given that this is an extremely pressing issue and a great deal of hardship in the area of the older people, when it comes to the realization of health care rights and the fact that there are some 100,000 people who do not have the opportunity and the conditions for further insurance, I suggest that this be done, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, in the National Assembly, a broader debate, for which the arguments are not in fact lacking. Everything shows that health services or rights go to the market, which we have to prevent in some way. Only health services which the insured will pay in full from their pocket can go to the market. This can be realized through insurance companies, such and different ones. What is paid out of public money cannot pass through third insurance of any kind - not with a privateer, not in a public institution. And this is a fundamental issue that we need to address in some way within the public debate, in order to be able to act when we need to react in one way or another in the field of legislation, health and other. It is not possible to conclude that the comparison with some European countries, Madam Minister, is totally unacceptable. We have written in the 'preamble' of the Constitution that we are a social state within which we understand health care rights as fundamental human rights to be guaranteed in a solidarity manner. As soon as we escape from this solidarity way of raising money and ensuring these rights, we are in a completely marketable situation in those countries that are just acting that way. I know, for example, the insurance system in Germany, and in America, where the one who can pay better, but in America, 30% of the citizens die without medical care because they can't pay for insurance or services because they're mostly private and they're too expensive. And that is why it is valuable to maintain our system, which is a valuable system of solidarity and interpersonal assistance in the provision of resources and in the exercise of rights. And that makes sense to me. We may find proposals in the debate that would help to make these things in a better way in the future, although I do not say that there has been a short period of time in your mandate, quite a few things that have been done, and in this sense I expect us to do something else in these few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u367	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Žnidarsic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of the vote on Friday, 25 April. Mr Bevk will now ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry is, unfortunately, absent. Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u368	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Many properties, including cultural and technical monuments and natural sights, were transferred in the first half of 90 years under the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests to the property of the Republic of Slovenia. In the municipality of Idrija, this happened for certain properties such as forest and agricultural parcels under a contract on the transfer of agricultural land and forests at the end of 1995. This law was entirely justified at the time in Slovenia when there was much opposition from local communities, as a number of countries just registered as owners in land in the midst of urbanised settlements or buildings in the middle of forest and agricultural areas. In accordance with the above-mentioned Land Book Act, the data on the ownership of parcels on which the slaughterhouses on Idrijca, Belca and Ovčak stand, which are part of the technical heritage declared cultural monuments of national importance, and the Wild Lake as natural sights, were also harmonised. The Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests has then concluded a concession contract with the forest management of the so-called forest plots on which these monuments are located, but there are no obligations under this contract to these technical monuments or obligations to these technical monuments or to these natural landmarks. Thus, we do not have a formally designated custodian and financier for state-of-the-art monuments at all. It will therefore be necessary to carry out the land dose of a particular cultural monument, whether it is an area of natural sight and to eliminate it and determine the owner and custodian. This is also important because of the preparation of the management plan, which is an integral part of the documentation for the registration of the heritage of mercury in Idrija on the World Heritage List at UNESCO. I assume that this candidature will be successfully completed in 2009 and also on the list. I would like to ask the Minister: How do the ministries deal with problems in property relations regarding certain cultural historical monuments or natural sights owned by the State and placed under the custody of either one or another ministry? Is it realistic to expect that the Ministry will obtain adequate additional resources for the purpose of rehabilitating and maintaining these landmarks at the expected budget rebalancing? Finally, I propose that the Land Book Dose and Determination be made for all four technical monuments, slaughterhouses, and natural sights, Wild Lake, and that the owner or manager be identified. To the Minister present, Mr Podobnik, I thank you in advance for your reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u369	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u370	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr Bevk. The question relating to the status, both ownership and guardianship of cultural and natural attractions, and in particular the topic that you have opened, mainly has a legal system background. In a way, in addition to our department and department for agriculture, forestry and nutrition, in a certain segment, we also touch the area for culture. From our point of view, allow me the next answer. Property at the level of sight, according to the nature protection system, falls within this concept of the entire system of natural values and any possible categories of wider and narrower protected areas may have different legal bases. The main part of land which has the status of forest or agricultural land is in the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. The Fund manages the compliance law, of course taking into account sectoral rules. As regards specific cases of individual natural values or protected areas, ownership status is very different. You mention the case in the congregation of Idria. In most cases it is the dominant private property. For a smaller part, it is also a mixed ownership of private and public property, that is, a country or a municipality. The ownership ratios in specific cases at the level of the landmarks shall be resolved through their management mechanisms. State ownership of forest and agricultural land continues to be managed in protected areas through the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, as stated in accordance with safeguard regimes. Where the establishment of a specific natural landmark is linked to a national establishment procedure, the transfer of management powers to an individual operator may occur where the founder, in this case the Government, considers this to be the most rational. If you allow me, I could briefly take the response of colleagues from agriculture who say, although the Minister may add in the future: "In cases where the properties are in the management of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests and represent a cultural historical monument, or a natural landmark, which is of special national importance, there is a possibility of free transfer of properties to the management of the competent ministry, which owns such a monument or a natural landmark. The transfer shall be made on the basis of a decision of the Government. Such a way of transferring property from the Fund to another national operator has been carried out several times." With regard to the financial question, colleague Janc, I answer, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition does not plan to obtain additional funds for the purposes of cultural and historical monuments or natural sights at the time of the budget's predicted rebalancing. With regard to our portfolio and financial question, I answer the following: The protection and management of natural sights is regularly financed from the State budget, based on the programmes we adopt. About €3.5 million is allocated for 2008. In addition, additional funds are made available to protected areas from the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, and we have spent 2.2 million euros on this in the last three years. In your question, you also mention a very important question, which is about the intention that the city of Idrija, with a mine of mercury and all technical and other cultural objects and associated natural sights, be included in the list of the world's natural and cultural heritage. I myself, as Minister, support this idea. Here you correctly note that in such a case it would also be useful to resolve the issue of the management of natural sights of national or local importance. By gaining World Heritage status, such an area should then also have its own controller. One option also appears last week to be the regulation on amendments and additions to the regulation on the transformation of the mercury mine Idrija, which was introduced into the procedure by the magi. Andrej Vizjak, Ministry of Economy, and with the good cooperation of our department. And I am pleased to note that this regulation proposes that the activity of the mercury mine Idrija be complemented by the possibility of carrying out the tasks of the mercury information and research centre, this was the proposal of our department, and also in conjunction with the future centre for the protection of the heritage of mercury within the framework of the common intercontinental nomination for the entry into UNESCO's World Heritage List. We already have a formal basis here to find a good manager in this case. Here we would also partially resolve the issue of custody or management of such a natural landmark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u371	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u372	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I thank Mr Podobnik very much for his comprehensive answer to these rather complex ownership and legal questions. However, I would ask that Mr Jarc also respond to my next meeting. Most things got complicated with regard to the Land and Forests Fund Act when all these parcels were transferred to management under this Fund. Then this fund signed concession contracts, in this particular case with the forest economy of the country, and so it is automatic, I have here data from the land book of the District Court in Idrija, where data on real estates, in all of these five cases, were automatically transferred not only to fields, forests and pastures, but also to functional objects, asphalted roads, cultural, technical monuments, natural sights. Therefore, the doses of these specified parcels must be carried out as a matter of urgency. These plots are, in this particular case, on two sides, but only three plots are a cultural historical monument. I therefore agree with Mr. Sponik that this must be done as soon as possible, that even this regulation may be possible to go there, but even before the administrator is determined, this should also be regulated and these parcels removed from this forest area and precisely defined the cultural boundaries [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] a monument or natural sights and only then a designated land or landmark to give to someone in management and management and, of course, also [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u373	Thank you. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food will answer this supplementary question at the next meeting. Now Dr Mitja Slavinec will ask the Minister of Economy and the Minister for Education and Sport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u374	Thank you very much. The question concerns the Minister of Economy and the Minister for Education and Sport, and it does not harm other ministers to hear it and try to respect it. The question is very simple and refers to tenders, more precisely on time and how applications submitted by applicants should be submitted. In most cases, it says that the role must be assigned to the Ministry of State or wherever it is by 12 p.m. and this day, which is usually Monday. Now I'm interested in a very simple consciousness: Why, given that the application must be submitted at 12 o'clock this and that day, can't be there and there, can't the invitations be added "or delivered to any post office in Slovenia"? Very simple. Indeed, the next day comes, in the worst case of two days, but given that they usually have 45 to 60 days to answer in all the invitations, these two days really have nothing to do, nothing to complicate, much more when we compare, what these two days can help. You can make the application substantially easier. I've pointed out before. It's usually Monday's broadcast time. This means that if you send by mail, at least as sure as you can be, it will be delivered to the post office on Monday at 12th. So those have objectively one less weekend to prepare the invitation to tender and do not hold back the response that I have already received in writing that the hands are very long. This is discriminating, because one has so many and so many days less and of course it turns out from practice that it is precisely those two days at the end when most of the tenders are being prepared. However, another discriminating feature is shown in this case if someone decides and on Monday really wants to submit a physical invitation to tender. It should be borne in mind that Slovenia does not end up on the edge of the nebula, but is larger. Maybe now someone could say, fortunately, it's not a thousand miles long. But let's say someone wants to make a call from Murska Sobota or Lendava at 12:00, unlike someone who walks across the street, they have to go three hours early. It is not just a waste of time, of course, it is also associated with high costs. The question is very simple: Why is it acceptable as a landowner, that is, at 12 he must be at the Ministry, and not the broadcasting criteria to be sent to the post office, to any post office in Slovenia or to the Ministry for up to one period of time? I'd like you to answer these two questions for me next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u375	Would you like to give an oral answer? On the proposal by Mr Slavinac to hold a debate at the next meeting, Sorry. [[...]] Your question or your question, Mr Slavinec, will be answered by the ministers at the next meeting. Mr Jožef Horvat will now ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u376	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, Mr Minister, my distinguished colleagues, who are still insisting with me. I'm going to ask the Minister of Justice, Dr. Lover Sturm. Many people are increasingly experiencing social differences. Among other things, because some have become rich also illegally. Privatisation and wild and illegal property are, in my firm belief, the main causes of accumulated capital and property in the hands of a handful of people, which is also the responsibility of the leading politicians and their parties in the then governments. More and more often today, we also hear how some have become rich at the expense of denationalisation. Obviously, delaying denationalisation procedures in the Republic of Slovenia is not only a European phenomenon, which, unfortunately, has already been dealt with by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, but, in my opinion, denationalisation has been a very appropriate political field, where the misleading Slovenian public has pointed to some denationalising beneficiaries who are not interested in any political option. Since we know that property rights must be respected in a democratic country, that is to say, what has been stolen must be returned, denationalisation must be carried out on the basis of the principle of fairness, as has been confirmed several times by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. As Minister of Justice responsible for monitoring the process of denationalisation and in particular its conclusion, I ask you: How much of Slovenian agricultural land and forests was returned in denationalisation procedures? For me and the Slovenian public, it would also be interesting to know how much the share represents the value of returned agricultural land and forests in gross domestic product? Thank you very much for your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u377	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u378	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you also for the question, honourable Member Horvat. The Constitutional Court has on several occasions passed a law on denationalisation and confirmed its essential solution. According to the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, there are one million 942,052 hectares of agricultural land and forests in the Republic of Slovenia. Of this, 102,143 hectares of agricultural land and 133,047 hectares of forest were returned in the recovery procedures on 29 February 2008, totalling 235,190 hectares. The share of agricultural land and forests returned in denationalisation according to all agricultural land and forests in the Republic of Slovenia, which are few, is 12.11%, which is slightly more than 12%. This information is certainly reliable and, of course, different and higher data that are not real are circulating in the public. Now the question is what is the share of gross domestic product that we create in agriculture and forestry. This proportion was 1.8% last year, in 2007. What we created in agriculture and forestry, including fishing, was 1.8%. The share of income from agricultural land and forests returned in asset recovery procedures is only 0.22%, or a quarter of the percentage, according to gross domestic product. The statistics provided show that the proportion of returned agricultural land and forests in relation to gross domestic product is relatively small and is not in any way as high as some have tried to show. With regard to inaccuracies occurring in the public regarding the return of agricultural land and forests to some major denationalising beneficiaries, for example, the Roman Catholic Church, it is necessary to clarify that by 31 October 2007, for example, the Catholic Church had returned 2.08% of the share in relation to all agricultural land and forests in the Republic of Slovenia. The share of income from agricultural land and forests received by the Catholic Church through denationalisation represents 0.037% of the total gross domestic product or 37 000K. However, if all requests for the denationalisation of the Catholic Church, which had not yet been decided, were accepted, the share of agricultural land and forests in relation to all the lands in Slovenia would be up to 2.88%, which is less than 3% of all forests and agricultural land in Slovenia. This data needs to be explained so much more, and this is official data, because just these days after Slovenia we find in a media newspaper that appears every week, data that is also ten times higher. I don't know where they came from, but I'm sure they're extracted from the vine, although they're also referring to a member of the National Assembly. It can be seen from the above that the denationalisation of agricultural land and forests is a relatively small amount compared to the assets that were coming from other privatisation processes, which you mentioned in the introduction, honourable Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u379	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u380	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for this, as you yourself said, official information. I would like the Slovenian public to be really familiar with them. Because what we read in the daily newspapers sometimes seems to have been a real asset to some denationalizing beneficiaries. It is said that the relatively small values received by denationalising beneficiaries by the law-returned act as unfair and mega of the great story. I am concerned, Mr Minister, that it was precisely this National Assembly that, on the second time that it voted on the law on the conclusion and the procedure for the maintenance of property, failed to gather sufficient majority, it failed to raise 46 votes or more. I was hoping that the denationalisation process would accelerate somewhat under this law. Now I am a little disappointed and I ask you: How do you see further ways in Slovenia to complete this return of held property as soon as possible? Apparently, too much negative information or misinformation is being disseminated to the Slovenian public about the value of returned held assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u381	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u382	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you also for this additional question, honourable Mr Horvat. The law on the completion of the restitution of denationalised property did not receive the relevant majority according to the veto given by the State Council. In doing so, the Council of State referred to the so-called tycunization of denationalisation beneficiaries. Apparently, he was just trying to claim that the beneficiaries were tycoons. This term is certainly totally inappropriate in this case. In some ways, it is even worrying that the State Council, as a parliamentary body, the Parliamentary Assembly, uses such terms. Among the 100 richest Slovenians, you will not find those who have been enriched by denationalisation due to the return of the unjustly confiscated property. Last year's newspaper Finance reported that the valuation of the ten richest persons in Slovenia, only two of whom received them, and have the same assets as 40,000 denationalisation beneficiaries, of course with all religious communities. However, if we counted three such persons, their assets would be greater than 40,000 denationalized people. As we can see, this data is extremely corrupt. As it is said, it is very worrying that the State Council is trying to reverse actual data in some way. To your question what to do to complete the process, however, it is necessary to answer, because the law has not been passed, but all the authorities will have to work with the awareness that the return and early completion of denationalisation, as has been the case several times before, would say at least ten times, said the Constitutional Court, in the public interest and that this process should be completed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u383	Thank you. Bostian Zagorac is away. That is why we are now moving on to the second round of questions of Members and Members. Dr. Mitja Slavinec, Minister is justifiably absent or had to leave, will you still ask the Minister for Education and Sport? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u384	I want to ask you a question, and then I expect an answer at the next meeting. The issue concerns the issue of spending on cohesion policy funds between 2007 and 2014 in the field of adult education and the system-wide regulation of adult education in Slovenia. But it's about human universities. As 31 public universities in Slovenia have highlighted this problem and the total amount is almost a million euros. So the 820,000 Euros to which beneficiaries are entitled, or at the level of a good half million Euros, are the public universities, or the good 300,000 who are expecting to pay their tuition. Contracts for these funds have been signed more than a year ago. They're also being dragged in 2006. These contracts indicated that the payment deadline is up to 60 days. But we are now in 2008 and, as we can see, this is causing enormous liquidity problems, large liquidity problems to those of the people's universities that have implemented adult education programmes, since the issue has been implemented more than a year ago, and the money from the ministry that should have been received has not yet been. Human universities are solving the matter by hiring loans. The case of a public university that leased a loan of EUR 92,000 and then paid EUR 2200 interest and a further EUR 7,500 interest on interest, as it has nothing to repay until it receives money from the Ministry for something that was contracted for which money was expected to be received after the service. The service was done, the money's still gone. Another thing about this is the delay in preparing new calls for cohesion policy funds during this period in the area of adult education in Slovenia. This is certainly a problem, and this is certainly something that, on the one hand, we declare our support: adult education, continuous education, and also greater competitiveness with as much knowledge as possible. On the other hand, contractors are carried out on the brink of bankruptcy, for they do not pay for their work for more than a year. And I want to know, why is that, and what will the minister do to solve the matter?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u385	Thank you. The Minister will answer your question at the next meeting. Mr Ljubo Germič will now ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u386	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary, colleagues! The problem of waiting periods is the constant topic of alerting members of the Liberal Democracy. Today, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you a question in the context of waiting days, which plague our health system and refer to outpatient, clinical, neuropsychological checks and rehabilitation of the affected cognitive skills. These reviews are subject to extremely long waiting periods, more than a year to a year and a half, which cannot be reduced at the current staff level, although we know that the success of neurological rehabilitation depends mainly on the rapid and qualitative assessment of the patient’s condition and on the speed of neuropsychological rehabilitation. Secondly, in Slovenia this review cannot be carried out as part of the Neurological Clinic of the University Clinical Centre in Ljubljana, but here we know that we have only two employees who are specialists in clinical psychology who are both bound to work in the infirmary and in hospital care. Since it is not possible to do this elsewhere, because ambulances are not adequately trained and because of the language barrier, it is also not possible to provide these services by sending patients abroad. I estimate that such a waiting period in terms of the rights of a patient with regulated health insurance is unacceptable and only significantly reduces the possibility of recovery and thereby reduces the quality of life and interference with the constitutionally guaranteed right to health, treatment and also to the rights of the patient, as defined recently in the adopted law on patient rights. At the same time, this waiting period unjustifiably increases the cost of treatment, the longer hospital absences, the longer rehabilitation process itself, and thus reduces its effectiveness. As a result, we have an ever-increasing number of people who land in the disabled and among the unemployed. All of this points to a loose attitude towards the health of the population, as well as to the money that taxpayers spend on their health status, as early recovery leads to a reduction in costs due to the transfer to rehabilitation in the context of an outpatient treatment. That's why I'm asking you, Madam Secretary, How will you regulate waiting periods and ensure the availability of central diagnostic and rehabilitation assistance to adult citizens of Slovenia? Are you planning, given that Slovenia is most likely the only country in the EU that does not have a branch of health care for neuropsychological rehabilitation, to propose and introduce a new service? I thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u387	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u388	Thank you very much, Mr. Germich. Dear Mr President, honourable Members! I must attach great importance to this concern that you are expressing on this issue. Neurology also develops in the world according to new needs. Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, epilepsy, for example, all of these are emerging or increasingly massive diseases. France will now take Alzheimer's disease as a key priority during the presidency. What happened to us? We have actually failed in Slovenia in the field of personnel needed for the field of neurology. We don't have anything to say here today. The Republic's professional colleges are those who are supposed to hold the network across Slovenia, each for themselves, each for their own, that is 33, that is, each for their own specialization. We know that this is not happening actively and we need to give this particular emphasis. We have consciously learned that neurology is one of the most critical. The staff didn't have a consistent upbringing here. And what can we do today? We are doing the following: for the first time, the neurological clinic will receive an early diagnostic center, which is being intensively prepared. I predicted that the first diagnostics in this room could take place on August 15th. Good luck. Because here in Slovenia we need to talk about happiness, because contracts and this is rarely observed. If we were to stick to contracts, we'd be running things today. Second, the equipment for a neurological clinic. I believe that during the year it will be delivered, that the clinic will be completed by the end of the year and that at least the spatial conditions and conditions in the equipment will be truly wonderful. How to develop this expertise is, however, only by consciously directing specializations to this area. That is why I have requested and expected, and I believe, that I will receive, from the Medical Chamber by 6 May, a long-term plan of specialists, both by professions and by regions or hospitals. And from this plan, we can come up with what we have to do. In addition to having two colleges today, it's really bad that patients are waiting here, and more than that, we will be able to replace this with the new conditions of the medical service law, this novel that we have here and with the spatial conditions and equipment, which is not enough to follow everything at this point. I have also met with NGOs in this area, with the entire management of the Neurological Clinic and the Clinical Centre, where we have opened up this issue and strung down these solutions, which are as real as possible and also that national criteria must be made for these waiting periods as well. Because, look, as long as the criteria are not met, then this is recorded, regardless of the urgency, because there may be more damage if someone waits longer, as you rightly see, there may be even greater problems. Well, another thing that often happens is the stroke and consequences and the rehabilitation of people after a stroke. At the neurocenter today, they barely manage to get people off the road that are being hit. Well, that doesn't mean exactly off the road from where someone gets hurt. In fact, these too are premature because of the urgency of the species. We also have a question behind us because we do not have enough rehabilitation centres for this population. And that is what we are planning now in this new national plan. In short, we are aware of the problem, and we are solving it as we can. That doesn't mean everything could be okay here tomorrow. It's been gone too long, it's been too long, there's been no awareness of where society is actually going, what Alzheimer's and Parkins mean today, and the epileptics and that in large numbers and strokes because of the known reasons we're looking for. So, [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u389	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u390	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary. Of course, I can agree with you that you also agree with me that this is a very pressing problem, because such long waiting species, in fact one of the longest waiting species, are also very irritating to our health system, while at the same time preventing the rapid return to the personal environment, to the everyday environment and back to the working environment. They look forward to the words that speak about it, so in your reply, that such rooms will be provided, such equipment that you say will be able to fill at least part of this pressing problem. Of course, it is also concerned about the lack of personnel, which will be a problem in a somewhat longer period. They also care about the assessments that you say are not in fact in this area, what is happening to us in this area and that the area has been largely neglected so far. In this context, I would also like to say that we will also have an urgent meeting of the Health Committee on this subject, as one of the members of the Group has invested in this particular area. This means that the awareness of the pressing issue in this area is significantly broader and that we will then be able to have all of these answers on the table that you have discussed today, that the professional enlarged colleges will prepare their views on how we will have clear views and data on when and how equipment and space will be provided and how we will be able to come up with solutions in a very short period of time so that we can really address the acute health issue successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u391	Thank you. Madam Secretary, you want an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u392	Maybe just for a little while, that all of this takes a really long time to get this started, to start answering as difficult questions as they are here. And it was very problematic for me, too, because they've been dealing here for so long with the definition of this building, this equipment, that, for example, those who are professionals, have spent a lot of time and a lot of checks on it. I'm truly sorry for seeing this happen instead of focusing more on patients. And we will certainly be working in this area intensively.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-21-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u393	Thank you. I hereby conclude the questions raised by Members and Members to the Minister and Ministers of the Government and thank them for the answers given. I hereby end this item of the agenda, which we will continue on Friday 25 April, with four questions from members of the opposition and the MP of the ruling coalition being answered by the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. I am adjourning the 38th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
