ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, present ladies and gentlemen, good morning and good afternoon! I am opening the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed and inform you that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: colleague Roberto Battelli, Aurelio Juri, Dr Marko Pavliha, mag. Anton Rop, colleague Bojan Kontič, Ferry Horvat, Ljubo Germič, Dr Mitja Slavinec and Matjaž Švagan. I also invited the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda and the representative of the Council of State to the 1st item of the agenda. We are moving on to the debate and to the decision on the proposal to expand the agenda. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes that the agenda be extended by means of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Lawyers. You've got all the MPs on the bench. I'm asking the proposer's representative if he wants an opening statement? You don't want to. Since the bill is drafted in accordance with Articles 117 and 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly you have the right and duty of the law-makers under this Rules of Procedure, both the Government and the Member of the Parliament, Mrs Dara Lovtijar Bebler, so I ask the representative of the Government first if he wants a word? No, no, no. I must also ask Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Not at all. Do the representatives of the parliamentary groups want to expand until such time as is mentioned? My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, after a four-and-a-half-hour debate in which we participated yesterday in the Committee on Internal Policy, we are even more convinced than before that enlargement of the agenda is unnecessary, that enlargement of the agenda is contrary to the basic principles of the rule of law. The adoption of the bill, as proposed, would have a severe impact on 1,200 people and full justice and, above all, that the content of the proposed law after yesterday's four and a half hours of discussion is not substantively justified by anything. We did not get adequate international comparisons yesterday that would require this, on the contrary. We have found that the European practice of such a case does not know. Yesterday, we received no justification or opinion from the opposition Members, but they did not acknowledge that it was solely a political or political move on the basis of a specific case that I do not wish to call this moment by name. That is true, this is confirmed by the fact that six months ago, in similar cases of misdemeanours, which were equally media-responsible, we also heard clear statements by the Minister of Justice that these are normal crossings where there is nothing illegal if we can move from one business to another, judges and lawyers can do so. Now, suddenly this has become not only controversial in this case, but it has to be settled urgently within two days of the end of this mandate and before the conclusion of the Spring Assembly of the National Assembly. We got on yesterday, I think on the five sides a very thorough explanation of the Legal and Legal Service, which has a number of concerns about the content of the solution. Finally, some experts also expressed these concerns in public, and neither the ruling coalition nor the minister felt that he needed to consult any profession. This time it is not only a profession, but a third branch of power, which is also completely ignored and played out in the adoption of this law. I propose that we act wisely and not put this bill on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Comrade Rezman, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. In the DeSUS Group, we are convinced that discussions on this subject are necessary. That a thorough and long debate is needed. That in these debates we should not only be isolated from those who think within the National Assembly, but that there must also be a relevant profession, that institutions which represent those who are most interested in discussing these changes must also be present in this debate, and for this reason we believe that the proposal for an extension of the agenda must be rejected. So it's because this debate is missing. Because it is substantively such that we reject it and because it was a process, the process of playing and we also reject such a procedure. Therefore, the DeSUS Group considers that these debates must be held, including because we are already thinking very differently about this within the coalition, and is one of the groups of Members, the position of one of the groups of Members, namely ours, is that it is at all opposed to this debate by an urgent procedure, without a thorough consideration, and some others think that the proposed versions with years of banning the transition from one to the other, and that there should also be an even greater consensus on this. Therefore, because we believe that, without discussion, it is not possible to find the right and the right solutions, we will oppose the inclusion of this agenda item in this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u5	Thank you. Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Contrary to the speaker in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that an extension of the agenda with this point is necessary. Those who oppose this also say that the debate on this subject is necessary and precisely because we do not see any reason to extend the agenda in today's session. The fact is that the area covered by this amendment is not regulated today. Notwithstanding the fact that some specific cases of these direct transitions from the prosecution and the judicial types to the lawyer-types have led to the regulation of this issue, however, this novelty is prepared in such a way as to address the system's rules in this area. The fact is that the permanent mandate of prosecutors and judges constitutes a special status for these categories. Since this special status exists, it is not appropriate that there may be transitions from the prosecution and the judicial types to the legal types. These transitions need to be limited by content and allow for such content also this proposed novelty. Therefore, we do not see any reason for considering this law and extending the agenda at today’s meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Member Rudi Mogé has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will also oppose the inclusion of this item on the agenda. We have a number of reasons for that. The first reason is that, in this case, there must have been discrimination between the MP of the National Assembly and the Government. The Member of the National Assembly introduced the law on a regular basis in February, and a group of Members requested a general discussion on this issue in February of that year. Is that what happened in March? It's not. It happened in April? It's not. Did it happen in May? It's not. It happened in June? It's not. What has now happened when the Government has passed such a law overnight at a time - according to our Rules of Procedure of Parliamentary Holidays - all the votes have rang and I find that in this case it is some kind of rape of the National Assembly by the Government. This is how one smart and good Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, does not work. We, forgive the expression, are servants of what the Government does, not of a parliament that would have its pride, which would say, "He writes to us, then we have a holiday and we go." Will this law cause the country to fail?Oh, my God! Are the conditions for an emergency procedure really met when only 20 people have been expelled in four years? Is this really priceless damage and loss for this country?Oh, my God! No, no, no. Listen, don't say that! No one will believe you! On the other hand, for us this law is also in such an haste when the members of the committee received only that day, that is, yesterday, things on the bench so that we can debate them. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, but this opinion has been extremely critical in many parts of the report, they were unable to define themselves as amendments, not otherwise, because Members are not legal geniuses, they would need experts in their parliamentary groups to advise us to tell us anything, but we were driven by a voting machine as is customary and today is the law that you do not even have on the bench. You don't even know what we're talking about. You don't even know that because you don't have a complementary bill. We're just going to decide something we don't have in front of us so we can make a decision. This is, dear colleagues, for us farce, the degradation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at the level of the enforcor of orders, the Government. Because this law is also discriminatory, it will prohibit lawyers from going anywhere, so we will not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Member of Parliament Victory Jelinčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. It has been said that this will not cause the country to fail, because of this law, of course, it will not fail because of this law, the country is failing due to the ignorance of Slovenian politics since 1992. That's why it's going down and we're just before the collapse of the country. What are you laughing at, gentlemen? You've ruled for so long, and what have you done? You made a mess out of this country. And I'm not defending the current government that didn't do what you had to do to clean up these things. She didn't clean up, but now it's about to start cleaning something up right before the end. And thank God that once "spun" at the level of this judicial system and the judicial clicks, to which this judicial legal click, which essentially has one special status position in the country, only the Gypsies have such a position, untouchable and no one should touch it. And they would determine for themselves what should be said about them or what should not be said about them. At the end of the day, the National Assembly will decide how the country will work. It's about time he made a decision and once he hits the table with his fist, he said, "Now that's enough." Unfortunately, the current government has only done so now, a few months before the end of the term, but better late than never. The court circles and the prosecution circles are "corrupted", that's ignorant, and a whole bunch of judges and judges get eaten by apaurins before they go into the courtroom because they don't know what's going to happen, but they're scared. Ask some of those you know, because you know enough of them. And if we look at what's going on, there's all this shit going on, there's all this abuse going on, there's going on, there's going on, there's going on, there's going on, there's going on, there's going on, there's going on, there's going on, there's going on, there's going on, there's going on, there's going on, there's going on, Go to different courts, go to the Maribor court, get the files, and you'll see what the trial means. There is a more rural community, a world of elders who are upset, who have more connections with different family ties than the former system, than the future system, than the system that will worship him at this moment or tomorrow or the next day. And it's about time he passed this law, and once it's said, "Gentlemen, you can't shit around the country, stop already." We'll back it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u11	Procedurally. Mate Run, Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Mr President, I expected you to stop Mr Jelinčič and warn him that, while we are accustomed to hearing a lot of things from him, a lot of non-real things, a lot of accusations, that, despite the third branch of the power of the "au generale" in general, as he spoke abusively, he is not appropriate for the National Assembly and that such statements should be brought to his attention. We have all kinds of problems everywhere, and I'm not going to challenge them, but I'm going to tell them that it's a "corruption" branch that's been doing nothing but packaging for 18 years, that's things that aren't right for the National Assembly. We also discussed this on the Committee yesterday, and some said that such discussions are causing a situation that we must then discuss in an inappropriate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Thanks for the heads-up. However, Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Zares Group. We, too, oppose the inclusion of this law on the agenda. The fact is that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were violated yesterday, when we were actually considering two amendments to the law and we were wrongly referring to the articles that dealt with it, but that coalition did not take this into account at all. Another time. The Law of the National Assembly came to 14 7 The Committee considered it 16. 7th and Today, It Is Viewed by the National Assembly, 17. [[..]] 7 It is quite clear that this law, written quickly, overnight, is inconceivable. [[..]] On the Committee itself, it has proved to have a whole range of shortcomings that cannot even be rectified. The law is also totally wrong on purpose and does not essentially guarantee what the proposer wants, but is directed against the judicial branch of power and it is very direct. It is ridiculous to justify a four-year period by which only a judge or a prosecutor can become a lawyer is justified by nothing. Arbitrary if the average trial lasted for such a long time. What if it lasts longer? What if it takes less? No substantive definitions. In fact, this provides some kind of pressure on the judiciary and, in my opinion, some kind of revenge. Unlike the others, I'm actually grateful to my colleague, Victory Jelinčič, that he said what he said. He gave arguments that the ruling coalition, due to its decency, did not hope to say, but thought exactly so. And this marriage is exactly what Victory Jelinčič said. In its own way, it means precisely such reasoning and precisely the reasons why this law is included. In this sense, I am grateful to him for saying directly what others are hiding.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from your distinguished colleague and colleagues, representatives of the government! It is perfectly normal for us to support the extension of the agenda, as we are also co-signors of the request to convene this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. We regret, however, that the solutions that I hope we will discuss today and also accept that they have not been adopted in the past mandate and that they have remained in the form of working material at the Ministry of Justice in the previous mandate. As regards the competitive clause, we discussed this at an extraordinary meeting on 9 July, also requested by Members of the New Slovenia. At the extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, we indicated, in fact, the direction in which the Law on Lawyers should be amended. This Law on Lawyers is not written "ad persona". However, I must say this and admit that the reason for the signing of the request for an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy was the Penko-Zidar meeting, and I will not be talking about this in broad terms. One of the provosts said we're going to hurt over a thousand judges with this law. That's not true! That's what he's trying to say is that they're all speculators. That's not true! But the Law on Lawyers definitely had a hole that some used to use, some very rare. But I'd like to remind you of something about this high choir. The only judges are those whom we hereby assign to them in the National Assembly a mission and honor and say by voting "yes": "You are the judge for ever." And this is a mission, it's not a profession as an auto mechanic, as a doctor, as an engineer. This is a mission, and it is an honor, and surely those who go into this sphere are aware of it. One more time, and I'm closing it. The New Slovenia Group will support the extension of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Re-procedural proposal. My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u18	Mr. Chairman! It can be procedural, but I'll be grateful if you'll let me have the replica. Just two three items. No, then it's procedural. I protest the lies and insinuations given by individual colleagues and colleagues in the debate on this issue. To talk about me saying that all judges are speculators, is [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u19	Run! Run! Run!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u20	a lie and insinuation that is not appropriate and appropriate for a Member. [[...]] That's what I want to stress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Each parliamentary group has presented its own position and let everyone have a view of the substance. This also concludes the debate on the proposal for enlargement. Before we move to a decision, I ask all Members present to check the functioning of their voting devices. Since there's no complaints about Buddy Friday! [[...]] We will therefore decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 39 to 20. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider that proposal to be the 1st item of the agenda. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda, and I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as you received the reference and with a slightly earlier amendment. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 39 to 20. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the agenda of the 39th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. In view of the urgent obligations of President Janez Janša's Government, the National Assembly will begin the second item of the agenda at 3 p.m. and will then continue the meeting on item 3 of the agenda. I introduced you to information that I had received a little earlier myself. In the event that the debate on agenda items 1 and 1a is not held by 1 p.m. by 13 p.m., the National Assembly will continue its consideration of these points after the end of agenda item 3. As we say, Procedural. [[...]] Comrade Pavel Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u22	I really don't understand what this is. We're not here, I don't know, a club of fans of this or that government president waiting for him when he likes to come. I still accept a certain fact, but you're not going that way. I therefore propose that we address the points as they follow. If the President of the Government can't come, he should be replaced by a competent minister. I think there may also be a secretary of state who can deal fully with these matters. We continue as the agenda is proposed, the President, that we do not accept this proposal and that we work on the agenda as set out, 1, 1a, 2 and 3 I think it is. Let him represent him if he is not the President of any foreign minister, the Secretary of State, the Second Minister, and I propose that this be decided and decided.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Comrade Paula Gantar, I fully agree, so I also said that I had received the information myself a few moments before I introduced you to her. I will put your procedural proposal to the vote if I can complete it or if I can make it substantively. Comrade Paula Gantar, you will help me - you suggest that the National Assembly hold a debate on the basis of the adopted agenda without time constraints or the interruption of current points. Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the proposal on which we will now vote. Unless it is accepted, we will continue the meeting in accordance with the information provided at the time of the introduction. There is no discussion on the procedural proposal. Please, however, let us vote. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 32. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 32.]] I note that the proposal by my colleague Gantar has not been adopted. However, we have some other procedural proposals. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, have you forgotten that before deciding on this procedural proposal, we have adopted a agenda? The agenda that we have adopted is just as it is, and it doesn't matter at all, that, I know, the forced, respected Vice-President has mentioned changes and it doesn't matter at all that we have decided on a procedural proposal. We've adopted the agenda. The agenda shall bear points 1, 1A., 2, 3, and so on and so forth. And it's completely pointless and we can't talk about it anymore, about any changes, about nothing, we have to work on the agenda, according to the list we've received. That's it. I think it's the only right thing to do, and there's no other option. We've accepted it or if we cancel the agenda if we can.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u25	Thank you very much. A fellow schoolboy. And after you, there's a Member of the Treasury, if I'm not mistaken. Comrade Skull, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u26	I believe, too, that if we have adopted the agenda, it is possible to vote largely on replacing it, but not on reaffirming what we have adopted a few minutes ago. Colleagues from the coalition, you are a sad cartoon of parliamentarians. On the one hand, you demand an extraordinary session, you claim that everything is at stake, you get it in time reserved for the House's stay, and at the same time you are not ready and you do not believe the President of the Government that this is so important. Mr Janša does not believe that this is so important, and he will come when he can, and you accept it. It's a particularly clairvoyant and sad situation. But you are forcing us to assist you here, forcing us to participate in this Parliament's unworthy work. If you really thought these were four important points, then Mr Janša would be here at 6 a.m. without coming when he might and for the time when he has no other business. All four points are such that neither of them will be attending an extraordinary meeting. We asked Mr. Sugary if he met any of the conditions, he said, "He fulfils the condition of the 27 signatures." What condition is that? Does it mean if we 27 signatures now gather for whatever the government and Parliament meet for? This means a complete breakdown of the system. 27 signatures, Mrs Irgle, are not sufficient if the proposals that fall on the bench of Parliament are also not properly substantiated, duly written and do not comply with all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. We are enduring all of this and must bear it in order to say that before the public's eyes you are tearing apart the rule of law. You humiliate Parliament in the service of the President of your Government and those who encourage you. That's why we have to be here to say you're doing something terribly wrong. We don't agree with that. Our role is limited absolutely to saying that you're tearing the country apart. You will adopt laws, and I hope that they will be repealed. But at least have so much discipline that those people who ordered you to call this meeting will be forced to come here at 10:00 or 9:00 if the meeting starts then.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Messenger Potrat, it's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I think my colleague Gulič has already warned you that we have Members and Members' names and other things when you address us. But this is just the first little thing I want to mention about how you're running the session today. Indeed, according to the Rules of Procedure, the President-in-Office of the Ombudsman, but the National Assembly has adopted the agenda and they have given you, as you said, read a decision that denies and annuls what we have previously concluded and I think you have done badly here not only to the National Assembly, but also to your understanding of the leadership of the National Assembly. Today's extraordinary meeting, which has been adopted by such agendas and at the wish of the coalition, is probably only the first in a series of extraordinary meetings to be held until 21 September, but the coalition could be taken into account by the President of the Government, if he wanted to boast about the achievements of the Slovenian Presidency, when it was announced on the agenda. I think what's happening to us is the erosion of the National Assembly, that this coalition has accelerated erosion. And don't be surprised if the National Assembly doesn't get high on public opinion research. This is sad for Slovenian Parliamentarianism and I hope that something will also be said by the people who reportedly have the main word in this country in the autumn elections. And I protest your decision and that you put to the vote something that I think you should not have made, and also that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I suggest we move on with our work. We have a agenda for this session, and for this session, as for everyone else, we have a timeline. And to remind all those who were at the last meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly that the President, Mr Tsukati, had announced that the President of the Government could be present from 13 a.m. on. And there was no protest, no reprisal, and so on. I myself, and this is my personal thinking, I think, and what I have heard in the media is now the government's meeting and at this meeting the government is also discussing the assistance of the state to all the affected in the last storm. If we want the state to fail to help, then let us vote on the decision to have the Prime Minister and ministers come here immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u31	Thank you very much. My friend Tanko. I'll give you the word because I gave it to the other Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I am sure the opposition is never satisfied with any decision, but I would like to point out that the process of work in the National Assembly is the same as at any other meeting. Never before in this National Assembly has the order of the agenda been exactly as adopted by the agenda, but the points are always distributed as set out in the College. And according to the order of the points, the 27th point may also be first considered or third, or so on. Always the same. As for this terrible fear of extraordinary meetings, I would like to remind you that you are many members of the opposition, including Mr Ptrč, Mrs Potrata, also Mr Školč you have signed under two laws under the State Assembly's special meeting proposed by the Lipa Group, and this meeting will be held only once on holiday. Probably around August 5th, 7th, when those hands run out. That's what you wrote down. 30 days will then expire, and all those who fear the most and criticize the way you work have signed up under such a requirement in the middle of summer holidays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u33	Thank you very much. I've given the opportunity to all the parliamentary groups. But let me say it myself. Very unfairly of you, fellow Member Majda Potrate, we all know that many times at the request of the opposition we interrupted the meeting of the National Assembly because there was no Minister present. Because it was the opposition that called for government representatives to be present. And that today you hope to tell me that I am conducting an irregular session, I think it is extremely, extremely incorrect. But, as we say, we will continue the meeting on the basis of the adopted agenda. That is why I am going to end this debate, which was irrelevant, at this point in time. We will continue on the basis of the adopted agenda, moving on to 1. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the Act on Income. We have 5 hours and 5 minutes of time available for this point. With regard to this point, three legislative proposals were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely: a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act - the first hearing submitted by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed colleague, Milan Petk. Second: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, as well as a summary of the procedure submitted by the Council of State for consideration and the third time: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act - an urgent procedure submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy decided, in the course of its deliberations on those proposals, to deal with it in accordance with Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would be guided by a proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor to the motions for further explanation of the proposal. First of all, I'd like to invite a representative of the government. Mr. Andrej Shircelj, your word, five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The government has proposed amending the Income Act in order to provide additional tax relief for persons with an annual income of up to EUR 8,300. These taxpayers are provided with additional relief of EUR 2 000. Indemnities with income, annual income up to EUR 9,600. These pledges are recognised as facilitating 1,000 euros. This law increases tax relief, according to our estimates, to 140 000 people who will receive an additional €160 each year, this will of course be their net income. This is the first reason why the government proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the law. The second reason is that, on the basis of the 2007 estimates, both the Ministry of Finance and the Government have found that smaller taxpayers, particularly those with only a few employees, are making it more difficult to apply research and development relief. Therefore, the Government proposes to allow the debtors to apply an investment relief, which will be made easier by allowing, of course, equipment to be included in this relief, and that this relief will be a maximum of EUR 10 000 per year. For individual equipment, the taxable person will be able to use this relief for two years. The condition here is that a taxpayer employs at least two employees. In addition, the Government proposes changes in the field of agricultural taxation. Similarly, farmers or farmers of the household will be able to apply an investment relief, and the issue of the taxation of stumps is resolved. According to a proposal sent by the Government to the National Assembly, the first 40 logs will be untaxed, regardless of whether the debtor has any other income from any other title taxed under the Income Act. In doing so, the Government expects and assesses that this is also one of the measures by which beekeeping will be improved so as to ensure natural activity in nature and, in the absence of such action, I will say, to artificial interventions in natural processes. In addition, the Government is proposing an additional relief for athletes, namely that athletes should be retaxed on the basis of a flat-rate basis, making it easier for them to administer or fulfil these obligations. For these reasons, honourable Members, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I invite the next one to the floor, the representative of the Council of State. Mr. Cvetko Zupančič is with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greeting, especially to the Members and Members of the National Assembly! I thank you for having the opportunity here to present this bill, which, of course, relates mainly to agriculture, on taxation of the Income Act. The first case, which was very difficult and which is a matter of concern in this law, is the taxation of subsidies. We continue to believe that any taxation of agricultural subsidies puts an additional burden on agriculture because subsidies are actually a compensation for lost income. We believe that this should not be taxed here, but at the same time it is that, in this part, when we talk about the taxation of subsidies, when we make the sum of cadastral income and subsidies, we come up with amounts in which farmers and, in particular, rural children are left without the possibility of scholarships and children's allowances, which is an additional burden for farmers and agriculture. In doing so, we also need to explain many times what catastronomic income is actually. Catastrophe income is the profit that is supposed to have been achieved on this part of agriculture, the real area. We know, however, that in the agricultural sector there has been no profit for a long time from individual sectors, but there are very large gaps, so there are negative trends. In particular, pigs, if I mention it now, bring together costs and cost-relationships - revenue, up to 50.60% loss. In such a case, we certainly cannot say that this sector is profitable. It is also by livestock farming, perhaps less in milk production. Therefore, from this point of view, we propose that there is no need to tax subsidies at this time. I think it would be very useful for this law to be adopted in this work. The other thing is beekeeping. Here I have also observed that this proposal, which the Government is making, also solves this in the same form as we have proposed. However, I would also appeal here that in this possible part of beekeeping, it is possible to resolve with amendments any taxation of beekeeping, irrespective of the number of stumps, meaningfully exclude from taxation for at least a period of time until this crisis is overcome. If we think back from the first Yugoslavia when we said Yugoslavia was rotting, then even the country helped beekeepers with free bee feed if the bees were in poor condition. Therefore, once again, it might even make sense to cut down on this work so far that any taxation of beekeeping would be exempted. If we continue - taxation of olive trees into the cadastral income, it is said to multiply 2.5, this sector is in no way tolerated and in this part we have put this matter in law so that the matter would not be so burdensome. As far as investment is concerned, here too, the government is proposing the same as we have proposed. As far as these matches and these problems are concerned, this is more or less known to everyone in the situation we are in. Every year it is worse, and in this area it certainly makes sense, and of course all the moves that the Government and other authorities of the country will now make are necessary and meaningful. Therefore, I propose that all the provisions of this law that we have proposed be taken into account and that, given what I have seen on the Committee, I have little hope that this law will be adopted. But I think some of the government's solutions have been summed up. And the rest of you, I think we're gonna have to sort this out. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I would like to invite a representative of the drafters of the Parliamentary Law to the floor. Comrade Milan Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Vice President. Technically, we are Members, 22 of us, who signed the proposal to amend the Income Act, by which we proposed the introduction of housing relief, really technically co-proposers of the so-called Hybrid Income Act. However, as co-proposers, we do not feel that way, but we feel deceived by the manoeuvre afforded us by the Government, the coalition and the leadership of the National Assembly when they played the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and prevented a broader discussion and debate in the first stage of the procedure, as proposed by Members of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. A law which has already been incorporated into the parliamentary procedure 25. 4. 2008, the leadership of the National Assembly apparently held it on purpose in the drawer and waited until 2. Seven. 2008 when the Government has only succeeded in drafting its law, in which none of the articles is in substance similar to our parliamentary law. There was also a need for a reference to the home Finance Committee, where the law for which we require general treatment is not at all a case and should not be dealt with there. And on the parental committee, without discussion, the coalition found that the bill of sale was not suitable for further consideration, and today it is given a scenario of its epilogue, when Mr Cukjat hypocritically allows us, as co-proposers of a government law called a hybrid law, to at least represent the content of our law. Just because the proposed hybrid law has not taken any provisions of our law, the introduction focuses on the content of the proposed Housing Relief Act. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we decided already in 2006 to introduce a law that would improve the shortcomings of the then reliefs to solve the housing problem. Unfortunately, in 2006, the government decided to oppose our law, even abolishing housing relief. In April 2008, we invited all other opposition parties to sign, who also responded to the call, so it was the law of all opposition groups. We decided to reintroduce the law because it turned out that the tax reform by abolishing 4% of the tax relief to solve the housing problem caused about 12%, 13% and 145.825 taxpayers, a source from which I sum up Work, 19. 6. 2008, which solved the housing problem in 2006. The promises made by Minister Bajuk and Prime Minister Janša that, due to tax reform, no one would be in a worse position, have proved to be unrealistic, as despite the rise in the overall relief to compensate for all the remaining remedied reliefs, some taxpayers have paid more than they had previously paid. The content of our proposal for a law related to the resolution of housing problems by introducing a tax credit of 200 euros a year, totalling 6,000 euros, reduces the amount of income and not the tax base on which the previous relief was based. The previous relief was not appropriate because they benefited the most from this relief by employees with the highest wages, and at least by employees with the lowest wages. Following this proposal, everyone would have the same non-discriminatory reduction in the amount of income. We have also proposed in the bill that the taxable person is entitled to additional relief to solve the housing problem for every dependent member, since in our view those with dependent family members are even more difficult to solve their housing problem. For the first maintenance member, the taxable person would be entitled to an annual relief of EUR 100 per year and each further 150 euros or in a group of values for all years per individual of EUR 1500 or EUR 2000. Taxpayers would be allowed by law to use housing relief during the year to calculate their income savings and thus increase their monthly net salary, thereby facilitating their repayment of loans to address housing problems. We also wanted to provide housing relief by means of this law to those who are dealing with their housing problem with a financial lease, with which, in particular, young people, who are mostly employed for a certain period of time and who cannot obtain adequate credits, are addressing the need to finance or solve their housing problems. Regrettably, the government and the coalition, which so verbally swear to the welfare of the people who thus swear to the welfare of the socially sensitive, who talk about the support and understanding and encouragement of young families in solving the problem of housing, show that they do not really care and that the grave rejection of the law proposed by 22 Members is evidence of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u39	Thank you very much. In the framework of the legislative process, the draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, will present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I welcome it all very well. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 40th emergency meeting, on 8 June. 7. Consider also the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, which was under urgent procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall meet at its 2nd meeting. 7. Decided, decided to consider the proposal following an urgent procedure. At this meeting, the Committee considered the following item of the agenda: Consideration of draft laws pursuant to Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure. As a material for this item of the agenda were forwarded to the Committee: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income - EPA 2033, proposed by the Group of Members and Members with the first signed by Milan Petko, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income, Urgent Procedure - EPA 2172, Applicant of the Government of Slovenia and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Income, Reduced Procedure - EPA 2139, Applicant of the State Council. We have also received material: Opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the Government's proposal for a law and a proposal for a law of the State Council, Opinion of the State Council on the draft law and Opinion of the Government on the proposal for a proposal for a delegation, and requests the Group of Members and Members with the first-signed Milan Petk to hold a general debate on the draft law. We also received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on the provisions of Articles 1, 4, 2 and 9 of the Government's proposal for a law and on the provisions of Articles 3, 4 and 6 of the Government's proposal. In its opinion on the law of the Republic of Slovenia, however, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia points out the reasons why the proposal of the law is not acceptable for both systemic and budgetary reasons and because of its substantive and legal and technical shortcomings, so it considers that it is not appropriate for further consideration. On the contrary, the State Council, in its opinion on the draft law, points out the reasons why it considers that this bill is suitable for consideration. At the time of its consideration of this item on the agenda, the Committee decided, in accordance with Article 117(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, first of all, whether the draft laws would be dealt with under the same item of the agenda at that meeting of the Committee, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure on the urgent procedure for the adoption of legislation. In accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee has also decided at this meeting on the basis of which of the proposals for laws it will draw up a supplementary proposal for a law. The proposal refers to the introduction of additional relief to address the housing problem in the form of a reduction of the annual amount of the levyed income or tax credit. The government proposal for a novelty refers to reducing the negative effects of increasing the price of living needs on the living level of the economically weakest taxpayers, to preventing the negative effects of tax burden on beekeeping and on the investment decisions of taxpayers for income, and to equalising the situation of independent professional athletes, self-employed in culture and independent journalists. However, the proposal of the Law of the State Council deals with the issue of the area of taxation of payments for agricultural policy measures, as far as it is covered by income legislation, the exemption of flat-rate subsidies from taxation during a transitional period, the reduction of the tax burden on beekeeping, the re-introduction of the possibility of applying investment aid for investment in agricultural and forestry activities and the possible convergence of cadastral income. After a lengthy procedural discussion, it was decided that the Committee would examine all the laws at the same meeting, then it was decided that the amended proposal for a law should be drawn up on the basis of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, the urgent procedure submitted by the Government to the Assembly, and that neither of the other articles of the other two laws would be included in the proposal on the basis of which a proposal for a law would be prepared. It continued its discussion on [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Amendments to Article were adopted to the government proposal. [[...]] The amendments are regulated by a new proposal for a law, and the conclusion has also been reached that it is proposed to the National Assembly that the other two laws are not suitable for further consideration. We also propose such conclusions to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Honorable representatives of the government! It is not wrong for the National Assembly to consider the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act or to the proposal. And there is nothing wrong with the content contained in the government proposal when we are talking about a special exemption for beekeeping revenue, if it reduces the tax base for investing in equipment. There is nothing wrong with introducing an investment facility to invest in basic agricultural and forestry activities and tax relief for athletes. But nothing would be wrong with my colleagues, including me, when I was sitting at my mother's working body, to include a proposal to amend the law that was put into consideration by a group of Members with Mr Petko's first signed. Nothing would be wrong because he would not have intervened in any article starting with article 66.a and continuing, in any article of government law. If the mother's working body could adopt four amendments and adopt them as amendments of the parent's working body to the proposal of this law, it could also adopt a fifth amendment stating that four articles of the law, while everyone is talking about 112.a. of the existing law, should also be included in the new proposal of the law. If we had saved beekeepers, if we were to give reliefs to farmers and athletes, why the hell don't you tell me, ladies and gentlemen, we wouldn't have given them to young lodgers. What's wrong here? It is without prejudice to any other content, but this would be a very important tax relief in obtaining credits, in obtaining mortgage loans. You all, with me, have or will have your children, you too will have them on your back home, and you will feel how bad it is when you do not get a young family of apartments. With this, of course, the existing government denies exactly what it claims is necessary to increase birthrates in Slovenia. Yeah, how can young people, for fuck's sake, increase their families, increase their birthrates if they don't have a place to be. See, ask your colleague or colleagues with Primorska, €6.7 000 square meters of apartment, Ljubljana €3,4 000. Tell me, who can afford this? Who? How can you be so blind to those who sat on this committee - I stressed it then - and have not yet adopted these three articles of this law? Why? What would be wrong if we made it easier to obtain credits and mortgages to get young people to their homes? Why the hell is that wrong? And I was really angry, and then I was angry, and I left this session because there would be nothing wrong with it. And secondly, nice or ugly, the Slovenian National Party, I have here evidence, warned, even four written questions to the Minister of Finance, in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, I have them here; why not cancel beekeeper taxes. Four years! I've got the evidence, I've got it. Look at them. Written questions to the Minister of Finance. No! No! Slovenian national party - what do they know because they have no idea. But today it's the right thing to do! But today it can happen! And if I say it's not fair again and it's not fair that this is happening today because it's an election year, you're going to say - political flags. That's not true. I have proof. Not that I would accept and understand, because probably some other party has already suggested that beekeepers beekeepers should, in particular, be given relief. No, it wasn't good back then. It's good today because you're proposing this before the elections. This way of playing and being good - it's not fair, it's not fair, because the beekeeper problem today is exactly the same as it was four years ago, only with the difference that you're trying to solve it today, but four years ago you didn't want it and you didn't want it to be heard. However, I resent that you have not yet adopted the proposal for the law of the group of Members of the first-signed Mr Petk. And you will be resented by many young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u43	The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Mr Boztjan Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! Hybrids are usually the means of every government before the elections to see who has proposed a certain law and who will be able to afford its contents in an electoral campaign. This was the practice of the former government and this government is no different because it repeats the story, even though it is considered more humane, more humane and less corrupt. But the difference between the hybrids of the previous government and the hybrids of this government is that the previous government has also taken into account in the hybrid the laws proposed by the opposition. This government, however, threw into a hybrid part of what it had taken from the Council of State because it had no idea, and none of what Members and Members proposed with the first-signed Mr Petko in their marriage. Among these signatories, we were Members of Lipa, when it comes to tax reliefs to solve the housing problem. To a certain extent, it can be said that there has been a business precedent on the working body; but who is still looking at the Rules of Procedure today? The elections are already in September and it is necessary to be very up-to-date here and 200 times today or I will probably hear more today: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the command of Mr Janez Janša," but these are events which have nothing serious in the content. It is interesting to note that the Government's proposal to amend and supplement the Income Act, which gives certain tax reliefs to beekeepers, farmers, athletes - which is the right thing to do - despite what my predecessor said I had already warned the Government in 2005 that this should be done. But it took you three years to come to your senses and figure it out, but interestingly, just before the elections, but better late than never, I agree. But it is interesting that you have begun to introduce all tax reliefs when you have already collected the income and when Minister Bajuk goes to Parliament and says what is the surplus in this Parliament. It's a very interesting story: we're going to give now, but if you happen to get another term, we're going to take it again. This is what you did in the rule of your mandate when it comes to solving housing problems. I must say that I do not understand your political tactics either, that you have failed to comply with the law that we have proposed in the opposition and was signed by the opposition, I think that most opposition Members, if not all, have been involved in the resolution of the first housing problem and in the resolution of the housing problem of the dependent members. In fact, the real estate market in the Republic of Slovenia already borders almost on horror when we look at how much energy, how much time and, above all, how much money young families have to invest in solving their housing problem so that they can live on their own. I believe that the prices of a square meter apartment vary according to where we are in Slovenia, someone said, in Primorska they are so much higher, in Ljubljana, but already in Northeastern Slovenia, where purchasing power seems to me to be significantly lower than in central Slovenia and Primorska, especially the people with whom I associate cannot afford, or if they already afford, risk 30 years of their lives to repay these loans. And this government has not given them any relief or wishes them, although it now has a second option: it has abolished them for the first time, and now it has the opportunity to reintroduce them again, and because of me it should boast of the budget surplus when it has already collected the income to reintroduce their tax relief only before the elections, at least you would not want that impression. On the other hand, you wonder why more and more people are coming from Northeastern Slovenia, Styria, Prekmurje, Pomurje, Prlekie to Ljubljana. What are they supposed to do there? Another 30 million or 40 million, as much as they give for housing in Maribor, on Ptuj, in Murska Sobota, you do not want to recognize this as a tax relief when it comes to young families, for the first solution to the housing problem, not for the second, not for the villa, for the real solution. When we talk about court deficits, if I tie them up - look at how many court deficits we have because people take apartments for rent and then the landlords throw them out. Look at how many of these cases there are! I have to say, you have no tactics, no politics, if you want to have one, no "shoeface", no "where" feeling for something good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Ambassador Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the amendment of the Income Act. Even with the party's programme and even in the coalition contract, we have committed ourselves to improving the tax regime with the aim of reducing the tax burden on work and stimulating taxation of capital income for all participants. We have already supported in our parliamentary group the changes in the laws in the framework of the tax reform that have gone in this direction. And we believe that the amendments to the law under consideration are also part of this package as a further improvement. We welcome the special exemption for beekeeping revenue, for all income-beneficiaries, for beekeeping revenue under basic agricultural and basic forestry activities for income up to 40 hives. We believe that beekeeping, including beekeeping for those beekeepers who have fewer hives, is extremely important. At a time when we are faced with numerous deaths of bees, when the question arises at some point whether these bees will succeed in carrying out their mission and pollinating plants, each hive will be important. And this relief goes this way to encourage those little bees. We also support investment incentives for basic agricultural and basic forestry activities in the agricultural household of 20% of own funds invested up to a maximum of EUR 20 000. The same applies to the debtors carrying out the activity, which is said to be independent entrepreneurs and other natural persons. In addition, it is worth mentioning that the facilitation applies only to those debtors who have an additional employee of at least one other worker. We are aware that self-employed people will not be fully satisfied with this solution, but with all good intentions and wishes, we must also take into account the consequences for public finances. The calculations show that this would not be acceptable to the budget at this point in time for the cash register or for the budget. It should also be noted that the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprises also agrees with this solution, otherwise it does not fully approve, but still brings a better solution than at a given time. The novelty also brings further improvements to the taxpayers' tax burden in lower income classes. This is an additional general relief that will further relieve those who are the most socially weak. It also seems important to us that the novel brings the same relief to professional athletes as to residents who are self-employed in the field of cultural activities. This change will facilitate and consolidate the position of professional and top athletes in Slovenia, which are often important ambassadors of Slovenia to the world. So, as I announced in the introduction, our parliamentary group will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u48	Good afternoon, all your colleagues and colleagues. Good afternoon, Vice President of the National Assembly. Good afternoon to the representative of the Ministry of Finance. In the Income Law of 2D, the parliamentary group decided not to oppose the adoption of this law, because it would be ridiculous to oppose the law proposed by the Government for obtaining points with voters and then to oppose it because the Government has proposed it, and that is why we are against it. We are not against this because the Government is proposing something, but because the content of the proposals proposed by the Government is poor. In this case, we simply say that the urgent procedure is ridiculously invented and without necessity proposed, but for perfectly procedural reasons on the spot, because otherwise it would not be possible for the mother's working body to abuse Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure and to go through some artificial merger of laws which is called then - as a result - "hybrid", so that those who know about biology know that a hybrid cannot be made out of one organism but must be crossed by at least two, because then it cannot be a hybrid, here we have some people who know about it and would probably be difficult, despite the fact that I am the opposition's messenger, this statement objected. However, I must say that this law, instead of the ZDoh-2D, would prefer to be marked ZDoh1+infinite, because we do not know which life-threatening disasters will still threaten our country, that we will have to come to this Chamber with our fingertips and adopt new and new pre-election inventions. What we have experienced in the consideration of this bill in the home labour system gives every prudent citizen and citizen the idea that some individuals in our legislative body, who are supposed to be only the first among the same, are given the power to walk, step down, destroy all the democratic principles on which the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is based. Notwithstanding the clear excuses expressed by the distinguished president of the parent working body, irrespective of the avoidance of the Legislative and Legal Service, in order to give a clear and unequivocal opinion as to the invention that the parent working body, contrary to Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure, expressly ordering the National Assembly that the sole, no parent working body has the right to do so, discuss in general consideration and decide on the appropriateness of the draft law at first reading, it may be clear to the complete layman that the parent working body has allowed itself an ecclatic violation of the Rules of Procedure, the main act of the National Assembly, with which the National Assembly has itself written down the rules of its work. It took up the role of the National Assembly and, without any discussion, decided that the Income Act, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Milan Petk, should be stressed, not with Mr Petko, so that it is clear which Friday is the first-signed one is not suitable for further consideration. The law, which would have made it easier for thousands and thousands of young families to achieve the almost unattainable objective of buying housing in today's time, a law that would cost the country much, much less than that of paying the value added tax for these dwellings; a law that would have damaged or left the country much less than that of an unrecovered value added tax, which, only in 2006, according to the latest data we read from the Court of Auditors' audit, amounted to EUR 184 million, this law was capable of working a body that did not have this right to reject as unfit for further consideration. This is a lesson for all those who have been affected by the removal of 4% of the income from the purchase of an apartment and all those who have looked forward to the adoption of this law, which would have brought to many of you Members of Parliament, who are in the coalition, some point in the elections. However, I hope that voters and voters are monitoring this session and that they will see that you have decided to harm them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u49	Thank you, too. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by Member Milan Petek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u50	Have a nice hello again! I must say at the outset that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the so-called hybrid law, although this condition is definitely not fulfilled, but it is a government law amending the law on income. We will support him because he brings some changes that he does not object to. It is better to argue that the Government has found out how threatened this country is, how the interests of the state will be affected if it fails to bring this law in the way that we all feel today is inadequate for this procedure. In fact, there is not one element in this proposal for a law transmitted by the Government to the National Assembly that would create an opportunity to tell it that it meets the conditions for urgency of the procedure. But that is how it is when the government or its president decides that one more gesture will have to flatter or try to convince voters in a perfidious way how the government takes care of them, but does so and forgets all the rules of the game. In this case, she forgot about the rules that we wrote ourselves in the National Assembly. Because of the fact that, of course, the Government has brought all three proposed laws into the procedure of the parental committee, where, I repeat, the income law proposed by the group of Members does not judge, this was a grave violation of the procedure or rules of procedure, and the consequences are that we are here today in addressing a law that we do not object to, but we deny that you are not included in the law, which would also, after our assessment, have improved the content of this law. Mr Tsukati praised, in the interviews he had at the end of his term today, how the coalition also took into account the opposition's amendments, how some of the opposition laws were also passed by the coalition - of course this is a fat lie. That was minimal. There was an opportunity to do so and perhaps even to say so, but something was made so that we could attach it to it. But more than that, I'm going to the content. Inflation and the interest rate we feel in the financial system have, of course, caused the problem of repayment of loans to our borrowers. Easier would be one of the elements to actually ease this difficulty that those borrowers who used to take these loans before we deal with these laws at the time, and even before this tightening in the financial markets. And instead of feeling this confidence and knowing that the relief relates to a long period of time, the Government has gravely interrupted this relief by adopting an empty law on income. Today, when this situation is actually substantially changed, when the Government expects young families to understand the needs of the Government, that the Government understands the needs of those families that have many dependent family members, that the Government understands young people coming on a business trip, and that they have no possibility of hiring appropriate loans, because contracts usually do not allow them to do so for a time, the government is reviving all of this. He says that we are not interested, we have decided that Durs must have the conditions for having as few problems with the calculation of income as possible, that he will be able to give an informational calculation as no one will doubt, and that he will hold 100%, and therefore we, because Durs must have a calmer job, we let go - parliamentarians - by such thinking - and Durs is the winner of this story. This is unacceptable to us in the Liberal Democracy. Rather than allowing the winners of this story to be those who expected the country to understand the problems they are experiencing and have themselves at this difficult moment of economy or life in that country, we had to adapt ourselves to the needs of Durs, how to make tax legislation as easy as possible and how to drive their procedures. Mr Simic declares that he is going to the surplus and at the highest level of organisation of the tax administration - this is not true! That fundamental part of its work has not been done, the information system, if established, would not have prevented what we have proposed by this law at all. If it had been established, it would have been a feline cough, we wouldn't have had these problems at all, and we wouldn't have them now. The tax administration should do a little more work than some are willing to do in this house. All we're trying to convince Members is [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The battle with the winds that do not give in, blow in just one direction, blow in the direction that they please the President of the Government, and therefore disappointment over such a relationship, and thank God that this mandate is over, and thank God that these governments are over. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by fellow Member Cyril Testen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we are disappointed by the procedures of some opposition parties, who, by interrupting and delaying the meeting of the mother's working body, wanted to prevent the adoption of the law on changes and additions to the law on income. They failed to do so, but they were able to postpone the decision on this change to an extraordinary session instead of deciding on it by 15. Seven in a regular session. Nevertheless, in our Group of Members, we are confident that we will also be able to adopt a change to the law, which brings many additional benefits, particularly to those with the lowest income, at an extraordinary meeting with the help of at least some opposition Members. In the opinion of our parliamentary group, it is a proposal for amendments to the law that we have in the procedure, a number of benefits, I will count only a few. For taxable persons in the minimum income classes eligible for an additional income allowance of EUR 2,000, the ceiling from the previous 6,800 to EUR 8,300 is amended. However, those with an additional income allowance of EUR 1000 will enforce this right until the total income of EUR 9,600. This change is important and will further relieve some 140 000 taxpayers. It is also very important, in the view of our parliamentary group, to facilitate investment in basic agricultural and forestry activities in a farm household of 20% or a maximum of EUR 10 000. The second, also important, is foreseen for independent entrepreneurs of 20% or up to 20,000 euros. The condition for the enforcement of this relief is the same as for working organisations for regular employees. In particular, in connection with the problems that have arisen in beekeeping, much has recently been said about beekeeping taxation. With this change of law, all beekeepers, regardless of their other incomes, will be taxed for the first 40 stumps. By the annual amount of €25,000 of their income, professional athletes who carry out their own sports profession shall be granted the same relief as journalists and cultural workers. We also talked a lot on the Committee on Finance about the amendment of the Income Act, which was introduced into the procedure by a group of Members with first-signed Milan Petk. This proposal for the New Slovenia Group is not acceptable for several reasons. In the case of this law, there is a systemic change in the facilitation which is contrary to the simplification objectives pursued by the law, which was implemented on 1.1.2007. The amendment introduces a non-standard relief that would prevent the implementation of an informational calculation of the income. In our view, the introduction of a tax credit is also controversial, since in this case we would have a double system, relief and credit. In particular, in our view, the use of tax credit is controversial as it is envisaged to be used over several years. However, it is also contentious. Although it offers everyone the same opportunities in a formal sense, in our view it offers nothing to those with the lowest income. For it is necessary to know that those who have large families and have more reliefs are often unable to make use of them, so that the tax credit is meaningless for all such debtors because they cannot take advantage of it. It also raises the question of how appropriate such an approach is for those with low incomes who spend most of their income on basic necessities of life and rarely invest anything in apartments. In short, in New Slovenia we believe that Friday's proposal is especially useful for those who have more or at least a little more. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the government proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Ambassador Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Clearly, the Income Act is one of those laws that requires many corrections because of nature itself, because of new insights and so on and new facts, and therefore this law also supports good solutions. The proposal to amend this law imposes good solutions primarily for certain categories of taxpayers. First of all, it must be said that it introduces an additional relief for those underprivileged with the lowest income. According to the Ministry, there are about 140,000 taxpayers. It adds, provides additional relief, facilitates investment equipment for independent entrepreneurs, which, of course, is also good, also positive, and some area - in addition to facilitating or simplifying facilitation, in calculating income for athletes is another important area, this is the area of agriculture where solutions are going in the right direction. I am confident that in this area, in the future, even in the face of the fundamental disasters that have often affected us, the agricultural sector will have to be affected in particular, so that there is still something to be done in the future, something else to change. However, as I said in the introduction, this law is one of those who has always needed some renovations every so long, some have been complemented and must always be monitored and adequately responded to things that are not yet well-designed in the law. This is the case in agriculture, at least something in this area - investments, which have been omitted in previous corrections. This is a very important issue regarding the facilitation of beekeeping, i.e. the exemption for all beekeeping, for all beekeepers for the first 40 stumps, which has already been discussed in previous amendments, and unfortunately we were not able to agree precisely on these facilitations at the time. I agree that it will probably be necessary to make further adjustments in this area in the future, as I predict that the situation will become increasingly difficult in beekeeping, and I agree with the opinion of the State Council that it will be necessary to move here into future tax exemptions for all beekeepers; perhaps for the time being, with the exception of particularly large beekeeping, where this is already some kind of big business, but we have very little in Slovenia. It is good that we accept this exemption for all beekeepers, not only for those who, besides beekeeping, have an agricultural activity. So it is for all beekeepers for the first 40 stumps, but such beekeepers in Slovenia are in the majority, and beekeeping should not be taken only as pure beekeeping, but as a benefit for many activities in agriculture, in preserving nature in general. As it is said, these are good solutions, we support them and we will also support the amendment of this law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by colleague Vila Trophynik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u56	Nice greetings to all present! Thank you for your word. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act is a twin of the law we adopted the day before yesterday. Of course, in a procedure that has already been mentioned so far, we can find that the Rules of Procedure have been misused. And if I were to express myself in skiing, it wasn't a "wheel ride" in slalom, but a ride "over wheels", of course, in a business sense. No conditions have been met for the emergency procedure, no security, no defence, no natural disaster, although we are being beaten, but the law is in no way against our natural disasters, except perhaps this could be the field of beekeeping, and a difficult remedial effect. These are the reasons for the emergency procedure; no one, of course, is fulfilled unless someone thinks that the approaching state elections may be natural disasters or difficult to remedy. The financial impact, negative, for the state budget is €28 million, together with a double that took away €25 million, is €53 million. And a serious question arises as to the accuracy of the planning of the balance sheet, or even of the state budget, if it can be left-handed, even in the explanatory statement, in some way, we are missing €53 million in one of the revenue lines in the budget. I could also ask whether we were in some way abused or misled when we adopted the national budget balance. Moreover, such laws are adopted which have implications for the revenue of the public financial sector, in parallel with the budget or its balance sheet. In this case, none of the facts or reasons for trying to justify the need or the necessary measures taken by this law are new from the rebalancing are even more new than the adoption of the State budget. All these things were known, all these or most of them were warned, but they were then like some kind of drum to the wall. As far as substantive or professional solutions are concerned, it could be debated in these five minutes. Procedurally, the biggest problem is that no debate on this, of course, will continue, is limitedly possible. In principle, bees are a serious problem, but this marriage will not help bees. This law will help the beekeepers a little bit, the bees will remain as threatened as they are now, and it would be good to remember that debate on the rebalancing when twice the amount of €25,000 was not acceptable with the bee welfare amendments. It's an investment relief. This is copied from yesterday's adopted law. I will not repeat disputed arguments or arguments that could be better. However, it is questionable or symptomatic: it is not possible to buy land or agricultural land in agriculture, but it is possible for a tractor. If this, given the fragmentation of Slovenian agriculture, is a smart solution, let others judge. While the overall relief is rising, everything is being kept negative, which was already in this unfortunate choice of classes, particularly at the border crossing points. Even with this correction, although inadequate, general relief, was already warned this spring when it changed - and this changed little at the time with regard to the minimum wage and these matters - but the general assessment will remain: the poorest received beer and sausage, the middle class lost or paid more, and the richer with this tax reform. This was an opportunity to eliminate the unacceptable and quality poor children's relief, where we practically introduced differentiation between children, so that those of the poorest levels of €349 are worth the country, out of the slightly poorer €589 per year and the richest €855, which is the amount of children's relief. As for athletes - yes, some average athletes will gain something. Elite athletes will get nothing, especially those who will represent us at the Olympic Games and are employed by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the like. It doesn't save the sport, it saves the individual, and it saves the average, the athletes. After all, this is a recognition of the discrimination introduced by this government, or most of it, when it abolished relief for athletes years ago. It is not possible to oppose the law by making a decision based on one’s conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by colleague Willi Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal to amend the Supplement will be brief and clear. We in the DeSUS Group will support this proposal because it is for the benefit of many people, as has already been the case in the introduction. However, it would be a mistake for us not to raise our voices about the abuse of the Rules of Procedure in connection with the increasing frequency of maneuvering and playing the rules of the games. This should never begin, I hope that we can at least conclude before our mandate expires. Otherwise, we believe that this year, 2008 is the year that will go back to history as a year of correctional examinations. So many corrective exams that are taking place this year are probably not yet recorded, and it looks like, at least now, it doesn't seem to be the end of these credit ratings that are promised to go on and on. It started in January and it started out that we were benevolent in the social field and later in the health field, and then we were also benevolent in the transport of vinjets, and we can't end up being benevolent in the field of taxes. Where all imaginations will lead us this electoral year, we can't even figure it all out today. In this electoral year, however, both the Government and the National Assembly are very kind, they are broad-minded, and when we finally sum up what has been given, first, and in recent years taken away, we will probably be somewhat concerned. At times, I thought that when we adopted laws in the National Assembly, which were restrictive, they took to make sure that it would be good if every year it was optional, for then the National Assembly was somewhat more broad - minded. I'm thinking different today. Today I think that if every year was electoral, we would immediately sink my state budget. Right now I think it's leaking and running at all ends and places, the budget fraud is pretty screwed up, and I don't know if it's thinking about how and who and when it's going to be patched up. In this mandate, we have abolished many of the ratings that people have had. In this mandate, we have given a lot to the rich: substantially lower taxes are paid on profits, we have made their income significantly easier on income; some have even made it easier, even though we are against it, but only to those who are the richest, who have 50% discounts on denationalisation bonds. We have also helped some of the people at the bottom of this society, but we do not have enough, so today we decide that there is still something small to be added to make sure that they do not really fall under the brink of poverty. But we did not think of those in the middle layer as kindly as we could, and we charged them with as much as we could. During this mandate period, DeSUS proposed several amendments. Let me remind you that we wanted the income-rich to be more taxed so that those with 50% tax relief from denationalisation bonds would be 100% taxed, that we wanted lower taxation on the interest of pensioners and others who squander, that we wanted lower tax burdens on those layers that cannot be commended for prosperity. Almost everything we have proposed has been rejected, but this relief, which we call a senior relief, has indeed been accepted. That was the only thing we could do. Although we now support these proposed changes, because something we have done in the past is being corrected, and so I announce the support of the entire parliamentary group, but with a bit of bitterness, because we have to carry out this corrective examination.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u59	Thank you very much. And we are done with the presentations on the views of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am also concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. We are moving on to the 1st A-point of the agenda, which is the defence proposal of the law on amendments and supplements to the law on lawyers. We have at our disposal an hour for this point. With regard to this point, two draft laws were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyery, which was submitted to the National Assembly by Ambassador Dar Lavtizar Bebler and the second time, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyerry, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the National Assembly. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice decided, at its consideration of those proposals, to deal with them in accordance with Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, the Committee also decided that the follow-up procedure would be in accordance with Article 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that it would be guided by a proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly following an urgent procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I therefore give the floor to the motions for additional explanations. First of all, Mr Robert Marolt, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Lawyers was prepared by the Government in accordance with the decision of the 55th Emergency Meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice of 9 July 2008. The Law stipulates that anyone who has served as a judge or a state prosecutor for the past four years cannot be a lawyer. The most important reason for the necessity of the proposed amendments is the fact that, without a certain restriction on access to a legal profession for former judges and prosecutors, the risks to the effective exercise of the individual's right to a fair trial, as provided for in Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, cannot be eliminated. Of course, it is not only that the trial is actually fair, but that everyone in the trial must have the sense that the trial is truly fair. The legislator's task is not only to ensure a fair trial, but also to exclude all elements that would raise doubts about the fairness of the trial. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia last underlined this position in its decision of 25 May 2006. In the 42nd recital of this decision, in which the Constitutional Court referred to the position of the European Court of Human Rights, it pointed out: "In the view of the European Court of Human Rights, the existence of an impartial trial is determined by such a subjective criterion as to determine the personal conviction of the judge, which lays down in a particular case, as well as objective criteria for assessing whether the judge in the proceedings ensured the exercise of procedural guarantees by excluding any reasonable doubt about his impartiality." In exercising the right to an impartial trial, this must also be reflected outwardly. It is the so-called appearance of impartiality of the trial. It is therefore important for the court to create or maintain the appearance of impartiality when dealing with a specific case. Otherwise, both public confidence in the impartiality of the courts in general and the confidence of the parties in the impartiality of the trial in a particular case may be compromised. In cases where a former judge or the prosecutor of a court or another court is acting as a lawyer, the judge’s position may raise a question of the appearance of impartiality if the lawyer is a former resident colleague or a former associate. The proposed restriction on access to legal activity is infringed in Article 49 of the Constitution, which defines freedom of work, and is implemented in accordance with Article 15 directly on the basis of the Constitution. However, under the third paragraph of Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, restrictions are permissible for the protection of the rights of others arising from Article 23 of the Constitution and ensuring, inter alia, that rights, duties and charges against everyone are decided by an impartial court. In this regard, it is worth noting the existing legal restrictions, not the restrictions that we know in the context of the contractual restriction on the right to work. Thus, for example, the Law on Detective Activity also lays down, during the conditions for issuing a licence for carrying out a detective activity, the requirement that the applicant be limited to a period of four years, did not carry out the tasks of the authorised officials of the Ministry of the Interior or the intelligence and security services. The Constitutional Court recognised this provision, which at the time of the constitutional judgment was limited to two years, as in accordance with the Constitution. At the same time, the amendment complements Article 5 of the Law, which prohibits the lawyer from representing him if he worked in the same way as a judge, a state prosecutor, a police officer or as an official in administrative proceedings and the prohibition extends to legal advice. We believe that the amendment will remove doubts about the fairness of the trial and thus achieve the desired objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the drafter of the parliamentary law. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable colleagues and colleagues, respectable choir! On 22 February this year, after a regular procedure, I tabled a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on lawyering, which was taken away from the leadership of the National Assembly in the legislative procedure by citing the requirement to supplement my proposal with a sentence: "The bill will have no other consequences." And so the leadership of the National Assembly assured that the then government proposal had been formally put into the legislative procedure 5 minutes earlier than my proposal for marriage. A week later, the LDS Group requested a general debate on this proposal of my law. This proposal was not followed by the leadership of this National Assembly. All the time, it was pretended that there was no such requirement for a general debate at all. This was followed by a government proposal, which included thorough and very extensive changes, and was tabled under an urgent procedure, which was the abuse of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by the votes of the coalition Members and some others. We are now reading and hearing in the media that a request has been made to assess the constitutionality of this law, in particular in the part which determines who and how the legal rate is fixed, for which we have always argued in the opposition that it is constitutionally controversial. Now the government has come to the National Assembly with a new amendment, whose main purpose, we know, is to ensure the inability to move directly from the prosecution and the judiciary to the lawyers. Even if the Government denies it and the coalition denies it, in fact this bill was created on the basis of a specific case and it is a proposal "ad personam" and not "ad rem". We believe that this is a pure abuse of the legislative procedure, as well as the abuse of the rule of law and the abuse of constitutionality and legality in this country. And the purpose now is to ensure, by means of this law, that four years after a person ceases to serve as a judge or prosecutor, he cannot, or only after the four years have passed, become a kind of lawyer, which is unique in Europe and what we have also heard on the basis of the opinion of the Legal Service and the profession is constitutionally at issue. It is also about discrimination against our citizens against other citizens who will be able to carry out legal activities when foreigners are also in Slovenia. All I'd say is this. The conduct of the leadership of the National Assembly with my proposal for a law is an expression of disrespect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The government proposal for a law means a new contribution by this government coalition to the dismantling of the rule of law and to the self-sufficiency of the current authorities. This bill is also an expression of the defiance of the reputation of the judiciary, especially the judiciary, for which this government coalition, of course, owes itself great credit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the President, Mr Drag Koren, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u64	Good day to the Members of Parliament, to the representatives of the Government, and to all those who are truthful. At yesterday afternoon's meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, as the first item in the agenda, considered the draft laws on the basis of Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two laws. One proposed by Ambassador Lovtijar Bebler and the other proposed by the Government. First, there was a debate and a decision on whether the two laws would be dealt with by the Committee under this one item of the agenda. It adopted a decision to deal with both laws under the same agenda item at the same meeting. Following the adoption of this Decision, the two applicants first provided an additional explanation for both laws. Dara Lavtijar Bebler explained that her proposal for a law had been tabled before the government proposal that some of the solutions to her proposal had been summarised in the government, but not all of them, and suggested that her proposal for a law was the basis for drafting a draft law. Dr Lovro Šturm presented in detail the Government's proposal for a law drawn up by the Government in accordance with the decision of the 55th urgent meeting of the Committee, which provides that the Government prepares such an amendment to the legislation that will prevent the direct transition of judges and prosecutors between lawyers, is said to be a competitive clause as regulated in some other areas. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service then presented the written opinion in more detail. With regard to Article 1, it stated that the addition of the duty of refusal in the work relating to the defence of the party before the courts and other national authorities is unnecessary, since it is a matter of defence for representation and therefore the prohibition of representation, which has been in force so far, also includes the defence of the party before the courts and other bodies. With regard to Article 2, she explained that this was a restriction on freedom of work, since the Freedom of Work Constitution did not provide for an explicit possibility of legal restriction, such restriction could only be made possible under Article 15, paragraph 3, of the Constitution. With regard to Article 5, however, it explained that the transitional provision was completely unclear. The debate followed, on the basis of which the law prepared a complementary bill, the representatives of the opposition considered that the legislative and legal opinion raised a number of issues to be considered before the Committee's meeting and that the Committee's meeting should be suspended and appropriate amendments should be prepared to be considered at the next meeting. On the contrary, the representatives of the part of the coalition felt that the hearing procedure was in line with the Rules of Procedure, that the already existing amendment to the Law on Lawyers contained most of the proposed solutions to the draft law. The proposal for a government law is prepared on the basis of the decision of the 55th emergency meeting of the Committee and contains the most appropriate solution to this issue at present. The Committee adopted two conclusions below, the first to draw up a supplementary proposal for a law on the basis of a government proposal, and the second to draft a law supplementing the proposal for a law not to include any of the articles contained in the draft law. The Committee then adopted its amendments to Articles 2 and 5. Finally, it adopted a decision [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the law be included in the 39th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, and that the second conclusion that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Lawyery submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by Ambassador Dar Lavtizar Bebler is not suitable for further consideration. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will support the proposed law or proposed amendment to the law, because we believe that the matter proposed by this law is appropriate. In fact, two things are involved; one is to prevent the direct passage of judges and prosecutors between lawyers. This eliminates the risk of the effective exercise of the individual's right to a fair trial, which is a constitutional requirement enshrined in Article 23 of the Constitution. The second point is that a lawyer must refuse representation if he represented the opposite party in the same matter. This is already regulated in the current Law on Lawyers. This novelty also extends to counseling, which means that a lawyer must also not advise a client if he has already represented the opposite party in the same way. These changes are appropriate and fair and certainly give rise to public confidence, as some of the events, some specific cases of direct arrival by prosecutors and lawyers, indicate that this matter must be limited systematically. I would not now list these specific cases, from Judge Šubic, Judge or Prosecutor of the Railways, and so on, more such cases have been justified by this regulation. But there's something else I'd like to say. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that a competitive clause is a normal legal institution to limit direct transitions from one job to another. We know this institution in an economy where this competitive clause is often required for those personnel where this direct transition to another job would be detrimental to the organisation where this person has been employed so far. The normal time limit for this restriction is two years. Now, in this particular case, a longer period is proposed; in the proposal itself, it is four years. The amendment proposed by the three parliamentary groups reduces this four-year period to three years. In our Group of Members, we support this proposed amendment, although we are aware at the same time that it is a special category for judges and prosecutors, for the special status of these people. Finally, it is also a special mission, and not least, these people have a permanent mandate, which means that this status and this permanent mandate already requires some continuity of the function they perform. For this reason, it is also right that a longer period should be set, a longer limit that must be exceeded before these people, that is, the prosecutors and the judges, can go to law enforcement. Last but not least, it is the time to move police officers from the police to various security organizations, detective organisations for four years, but it is not a permanent mandate. But no matter what, it's a category of people where a longer term is needed. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we agree that the deadline is three years, which is now set by this proposed amendment, so we will support the law, including the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As you know, since we have said this several times, we will not support the bill in the Group of Social Democrats. There is no real reason for possible support other than entirely invented. First. The law is not necessary. I will read to you the opinion that Mr Minister said to our fellow Member Dusan Kumra in the National Assembly on 28 January 2008 at the turn of the President of the Court of Cyprus to the Cyprus notary. He said to repeat the already well - known position that there was nothing unusual. This has already happened and, of course, nothing illegal. No legal irregularities can be attributed to this act. Like an inequitable, a lawyer can change his job, and this right can be exercised. There's no issue here. There are many cases of lawyers leaving their own species and becoming judges or notaries or hiring in the authorities of the state administration and reading the brilliant thoughts of the Minister in the case of the President of the Court being transferred to a lawyer, and today you refer to them where it is absolutely necessary to do so. Second. In February, we had the Government's Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers. At that time, all the cases that you have cited, I repeat to you, Shubic, Ironborn, etc., which have been with us for four years now and have not even been with us in the Ministry of Justice, even less in the brilliant coalition of knowledge that it is imperative to adopt a law immediately overnight that prohibits the transition of state prosecutors and judges to a legal profession, because otherwise irreparable damage will occur. Ladies and gentlemen, you're spitting in your own bowl, which you don't care about, because you've got too thick skin to bother you with one day talking one another, the other day. That's all there is to it. Third. The incompatibilities of the performance of functions are already regulated in existing legislation. Both for lawyers, both for prosecutors and for judges, and at the same time they must not carry out certain tasks listed here, nor must they perform them after they have ceased. And with what you're proposing now, you're not going to achieve anything new that hasn't been arranged. Third. If someone commits a crime, and in the latter case may have been committed, so state prosecutors and others claim, then there are appropriate procedures for doing so. And if there has been a service of criminality, let it be determined and let the person who has been convicted of a criminal offence be held responsible. There is no need to amend legislation to that effect. The opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service is fully clear and points out that there is a possibility of unconstitutional conduct. In doing so, the Minister and the Government refer to a judgement of the Constitutional Court and to the opinion of the European Court of Human Rights. It is a decision of the Constitutional Court U1-2007 of 10.10.2007. Since I don't have time, I won't read it to you, and I recommend you not to read it, because you won't read it to the end and you will interpret it in your own way. However, I tell you that the arguments on the basis of which the Minister and this judgment are trying to prove that the law is necessary do not hold. It is indeed necessary to ensure the integrity and independence of the judiciary, as well as its credibility, but not in the manner proposed in this law. And because I'm running out of time and I'm gonna take the right to speak with the amendments, let me just say that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The law will apply to 1080 new judges and over 200 state prosecutors. [[...]] And the words he said at the beginning of the discussion [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u69	My friend Potts. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u70	Is it over? Then we'll discuss the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Member Rudolf Moge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u72	Presidents, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings. The Government's proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Lawyers, whereby judges and prosecutors should not become lawyers and provide legal services for four years after the end of their office, we object to the LDS because in this case it is another law in a series of laws that is clearly inconsistent with the Constitution and this time also with the legal order of the European Union. It is already clear from the explanation of the law that the Ministry of Justice has not found any European state with such regulation, and it provides a misleading argument that the transitions of judges and prosecutors between lawyers are increasing. In the last four years, only 14 judges and 6 prosecutors have become lawyers. European legislation also prohibits discrimination between citizens and citizens of other Member States of the European Union, but we discriminate against our own citizens and citizens. Following the proposed regulation, Slovenian citizens wishing to become lawyers and to carry out legal activities anywhere in the EU will be discriminated against in relation to lawyers, nationals of other EU members who, in accordance with their domestic legislation, can become lawyers and provide services anywhere in the EU, even in Slovenia, without being prevented for four years after the discharge of their judicial or prosecutorial functions. The restriction on access to a lawyer's profession for judges and prosecutors would be permissible only if the exercise of public authority was dealt with in the case of a lawyer, but the Court of Justice of the European Communities has already ruled that it is not possible for a lawyer to be equal to the exercise of public authority. With the proposed competitive clause, the Slovenian government has established a so-called reverse discrimination against its own citizens. Since the proposed measure will further deter lawyers from the candidates for judges, thereby preventing citizens from having timely judicial protection provided, the effect of the four-year competitive clause is that those who choose to pursue a judicial profession will, at the same time, be practically in the middle of deciding that this will be the only legal profession they will pursue throughout their lifetime. The absence of the right to choose between the most attractive and most respected legal professions will deter young lawyers from choosing a judicial service as a professional ambition. If this amendment is adopted, it will be a systematic threat to the same constitutional right that the competitive clause seeks to safeguard. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With this law, the government punishes politically disobedient judges and prosecutors because they will be far more dependent on politics in their work because they know well that they will no longer be able to withdraw from independent lawyers before being bullied on purpose. At the same time, this law is also a specific penalty for women. It must be said that 90% of the women in the courts are in the first class. So, as one of the branches of government, the other branch is executive and the judges are here in a rather unequal position. It is too much to talk about the position of judges who fight to equalize wages, but the executive power offers them and punishes them with another deprivation of rights, that is, that they should be paid after how much work they will do. Does it have, respected colleagues and colleagues, any of us sitting here, any minister, or any secretary of state, on the list that he has to prove for his salary and see whether he has exceeded the norm in his work, or has not exceeded the norm. The bullying of the branch of power is not over. In contrast, the adoption of this law will also be between us as legislation, and between them, as the judiciary knows, they will have a so-called competitive clause from which they will be put into contamination for four years so that they will not be able to carry out the profession they would like. For all of this it seems to us in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that this is another in a series of activities of this government, which wants to punish more than 1,200 prosecutors and judges only because 20 of their colleagues have gone through four years. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] between lawyers and some of them did not behave as they should. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u74	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Once again a good day, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government, as well as our visitors to the Tribunal, the mayor of the municipality of Šostjanj with co-workers. First, let me say that in New Slovenia, the proposed law, which we are currently considering, we support and we will be happy to support it. We assess in our parliamentary group that the most important article 2 is the establishment of the Institute of Temporary Postponement of Access to Lawyerry. In accordance with the proposal for a law, the condition for the exercise of legal activity shall not be fulfilled by an official acting as a judge or a state prosecutor until it has expired four years from the date on which such a function has ceased. This provision primarily protects the constitutional principle of the right to judicial protection and thus the constitutional principle of the independence of judges, which provides in Article 125 of the Constitution that judges are independent in the exercise of their judicial function. The independence of judges is not the intention of itself, but is intended to ensure at the same time the expertise and impartiality that each individual rightly expects from the court and from the judges entrusted with the protection of its rights. Article 2 of the Judicial Service Act provides that a judge must always act in the exercise of his right by safeguarding the impartiality and independence of the trial and the reputation of the judicial service. The reputation of judicial service. I've been meaning to stop here for a little while. I asked myself what the reputation is right now. I hope to say that the judicial service has a very bad reputation right now, but that's why it's not just the judges, it's all of us. The National Assembly is also guilty that the reputation of judicial service is the same as it is. However, I must also point out here that judges are also guilty of such a bad reputation. A permanent judge and, as has already been said today, a permanent term is not exactly a mandate. Members do not have a permanent mandate and I do not think that no one in the country has a permanent mandate. That is why I agree with those who say that the judge is actually the mission, that this is something very important. Remember, if not alone, but from the time of their parents, they must have told the story of what it meant in some place. The priest had great importance, and the Master had great importance, and the Judge had great importance. And sometimes we added a geometer that measured and influenced people's property. Today in Nova Slovenija we are convinced that it is necessary for the judiciary to regain its reputation. At least to some extent, like he used to be. And this law, we are convinced in New Slovenia, can also contribute to increasing the reputation of judges and courts. It has already been said that these arrivals are so few. Only 14 judges in the last four years have gone from service to law enforcement. Fourteen in four years. That's really very little. But in this small amount of transitions there were some of these that require acceptance of these changes. There have been some such cases that are unacceptable. The same as the last case of Mr Penk when he spoke as prosecutor with Mr Zidar to represent him when he left the prosecution. In New Slovenia we will support the law and we want everyone to do something else to increase the reputation of the court.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u76	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State with fellow Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! A more important objective, followed by the proposed law, is to prevent the direct transfer of judges and prosecutors between lawyers and thereby eliminate the risk of the effective exercise of the individual's right to a fair trial. That's how the proposer talks about it. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we feel that something in this area needs to be done, that some cases actually indicate that some things need to be sharpened slightly. However, we believe that the proposed restriction on access to the management of legal activity is without a doubt prejudice to Article 49 of the Constitution, which defines freedom of work, the purpose of restricting the provision should be to ensure the right to a fair trial. In the Group of Members, we are convinced that, in particular, because of what is somehow evident from the comparative presentation that such solutions are not elsewhere to be limited, but in a completely different way. In the parliamentary group, we find that there is not enough quality staff in the courts and in the prosecutions, and we are confident that this solution will actually be of a number of young lawyers who decide to pursue a career through the courts, but in fact it may not be entirely certain what they will eventually become, either a lawyer or a judge or a prosecutor, that they will deter him and go into a different career. We believe that this will be bad for the judicial service, for the prosecution and for the lawyers, but far from saying that there is no need to do anything. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also have against the proposed solution, which is now proposed by the amendment, that is, from four years to three years, still some concerns. It seems to us that this strict restriction will go beyond the principle of proportionality, which we must also follow as legislators. From this I would conclude that in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Members will decide by their own discretion on how we will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u77	Thank you very much. But probably MPs always make their own decisions, don't they? The position of the Zares Group will be presented by colleague Pavel Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government and the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyers. Moreover, we believe it is scandalous that it was at today's extraordinary meeting to see this happen, that it was necessary to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, paragraph 117, which speaks of the possibility of the mother's working body at the same meeting to consider proposals for laws dealing with equal social relations. It is evident that the law which is here and the law of Mrs Lavtijar Bebler complements the same law, but not the same social relations. Members of the coalition or SDS, NSI and SLS were warned about this, but it did not help. The main solution of the law is, of course, the introduction, in the notes, of a competitive clause, which is in fact not a competitive clause at all, but a time-limited "berufsverbot" - a ban on taking up a profession for those prosecutors and judges who have decided to leave this service and would like to continue their career as lawyers. If this law is passed, they will have 4 or 3-year-old "berufsverbot" in the field of legal representation. The reason for such a drastic measure, cited by the applicant, is that it is necessary to ensure the independence and impartiality of the proceedings and the appearance of impartiality of the judicial proceedings or of the third branch of the authority at all. And here comes the brilliant teaching of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which says, quote literally: "The judiciary in Slovenia is carried out by judges. They shall be governed by the rule of impartiality and independence which forms an integral part of a fair trial. A lawyer by nature cannot be impartial, because he must represent one party in the proceedings..." and I would add the prosecutor, because he has to make an accusation. At the same time, of course, there is no longer a secret to the accused, the suspect, because he has to disclose all the burdensome evidence available to the accused and give him the opportunity to answer them. Nor does the law comply with the principles of proportionality of interference with the constitutional right to freedom of employment. Four or three years. That's perfect arbitration. It is justified that for four years there is an average duration of four years. What if it takes less? And what about those who last 10 years or maybe even more? Whether they will act on a case-by-case basis. This is a completely fictitious and in nothing justified, arbitrary, decision that has no serious justification. It is justified that such a long period should be maintained because a judge who has tried today may, as a lawyer in another case, as he thought, defend a party in a court of law and may still be in friendly relations with former associates. However, a lawyer who has worked in a court for 10, 15 years knows all these judges equally well, can be friendly with them and so on, but that is no reason to prohibit his profession. It should be borne in mind that in a private relationship we can be some in good relations, that even members of the opposition and the coalition can go to some kind of lunch together, but this does not mean that in their formal relations not every position, coalition and opposition represents itself, since society is not alone in the confusion of informal relations and some clientelistic connections. The representative of the Government speaks of the need to ensure that the trial is fair. That's what I have to say. I've been thinking about France Popita's statement since the '70s, and he said, "Self-governance needs to be given a sense of self-governance." And we said France Poppy was right. It is necessary to have a sense of self - control, not self - control. And that's it. The feeling of a fair trial, even if it's not fair. And finally, I also agree, you won't believe it, with the last statement of the Secretary of State saying, "The proposal will be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Eliminate doubts in a fair trial." [[...]] They will remove doubts about a fair trial by means of a bill. And I'm afraid you're really going to do that with this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Ambassador Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u80	Thank you very much. In the DeSUS Group, we will oppose the adoption of such a law, a law on lawyers, which some call "lex penko", and some consider that a law on bullying judges and prosecutors should be called. The applicant says that the country is in serious trouble, so it is necessary to act promptly and radically in order to prohibit work for at least four years for those who wish to leave the court and to prohibit the right of counseling. What's interesting is that this ban is one-way. That it is forbidden for a judge to become a lawyer, but there is no turning back. And if we make a little joke, with a little imagination, it's possible to imagine it, it can suddenly appear on the front pages of the newspaper: Penko is coming back. For the law does not prevent him from becoming a prosecutor or judge again, only here with political will, not by law, could we prevent him. The DeSUS Group agrees that it is necessary to ensure a fair trial in order to ensure the independence of judges. That impartiality must be ensured and that constitutional rights must be respected, constitutional provisions. Is it not now that we need to change the law in order to ensure this? We're in doubt. We think so. Therefore, judges must be impartial in that they are independent and that constitutional provisions must be respected. In order to change our thinking, it would be necessary to take a substantial amount of time and not act on it, as the government or the Ministry of Justice are now doing. They have been alerted to this ingenuity on various sides, including by the legislative and legal services mentioned above. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with this service or its assessment. Let us say that this greed can also be proved by dates. 9. 7. The meeting was held by the Committee on Internal Policy. It was decided that it was necessary to entrust the Government to adopt a law which would introduce a competitive clause. During the night, the government prepared this marriage, and we had it on our hands by 11:00. Really strong inter-resortary coordination at night had to be carried out on this night and many consultations before the Government adopted such a proposal at the letter meeting. That the truth was different, the Minister of Storm himself spoke. He wrote down, quote, "that the Government has prepared, on a proposal from the law, in accordance with the decision of the 55th urgent session of the ONP and that it is not possible to ignore what this 55th meeting has found." On this basis, on the basis of this meeting and its conclusions, he said that a four-year ban was needed because no other measure could provide a legitimate objective. This goal is a fair trial. So that's what Minister Smurf used to say. He also supported this at a committee meeting when he replied to the question of how they were able to prepare this bill so quickly that they were working on the government's laws in stock. So the reference to this meeting was unnecessary and unrealistic. The law was prepared and the committee was abused to propose what was given to it at the table as its decision to the Government. That is why we reject such a way of working in the Desus Group. We also reject most of this content, which is proposed in the law. Let me underpin this harassment of the judges with just one more remark from the Minister, who asked where the judges could go, who could not go among the lawyers, and they would want to do so, replied: "So let them go to justice. They can all drill there for four years."
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Ambassador Zmago Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u82	Good day to you all! Slovenia has one strange variant that can only happen in Slovenia. It was prepared for a long time since 1992 and very successfully used. This is the possibility of someone taking files this afternoon, this morning, or judging someone, or suing them and accusing them, taking files this afternoon, copying them, and the next day defending him as a lawyer of the same person. These things are a little weird if I say so. And it is high time that the Ministry of Justice also embarked on this segment in the Slovenian justice and justice system. After all, why shouldn't judges and prosecutors have a competitive clause if they have to have police officers who are certainly not so deeply involved in what matters, but four years should not be detectives to pursue or search for information. Here it is again and still a certain rating that judges and prosecutors have, in addition to that life term, because it is actually a life term, because if any judge or prosecutor does not want to retire, Slovenian legislation allows him to remain in this seat until death. And that's what's happening. There are quite a number of such cases in Slovenia. Rumor has it that, I say, the so-called legal profession was, of course, blown up. Of course she jumped into the air because it's about their scrotums and their chairs. On the other hand, when we look at backlogs that are terrifying, backlogs that the world doesn't know. And when German controller Dukoff pointed out these pigs in the Slovenian justice system, of course they threw him on the road, they thanked him early gentlemen judges and sent him back to Germany. This law states that prosecutors and judges must not go to law enforcement for four years because the average debate on a particular case is expected to take about three and a half years. I think it would make sense that this competitive clause should be extended. I've been dragged in by the courts for a long, long, long time, looking for a way to get locked up in every way for 15 years. Where's what? In Serbia, which we say is the Balkans, the judge is suspended if two cases are returned to him by a higher court at a certain time. Nothing with us. "It's human to be wrong," Mrs Cerareva once told me. And there's something wrong with us all. There's no punishment. The country pays, they wash their hands, and it's over. There's no end to this court's mishap. And if we look at how many imprisoned gentlemen have stolen a country that has robbed citizens. I'm one, Shushtar. And it's probably because he didn't say anything about what he promised when he said everything he said about Rob, but he didn't say anything. Maybe that's why he only got house arrest. I don't know! A man can think anything. If we take two new members of the European Union, Romania and Bulgaria, in, I think for 14 days, a few thousand prosecutors and judges were put on the road because they were corrupt, incompetent, unprofessional and so on, Europe applauded. With us: "Wow, now the Constitutional Court will determine that the National Assembly, as the highest authority in the country, must not regulate and establish order in this our loving country, which is disappearing, which also perishes because of such filth." It's about time this marriage came, it's about time. And I think that in other areas too, something should be done. Well, the beginning is here, the beginning, not the end. This is one of the initial laws which will need to be amended within the next term. And those gentlemen who think she's privileged to forget about the privileged. The matter will change, and then the foot on the road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u83	Thank you. The position of the Ambassador of the Lipa Group will be presented by Mr Boztjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I have to say that Slovenia is really strange, really strange, that those who advocate or are against judicial backlogs, that those here today are talking about the need to support this law. This law is the greatest duplicity of this government. The backlogs of the confidence of Members of Lipa, and I see that, after the conviction of my predecessors, they give rise to a permanent judicial mandate. And this law only underpins him. Who's gonna leave the courthouse? Even that judge who doesn't do his job won't go because we gave him a competitive clause. He can't do anything for four years. With the same education as the lawyer, the prosecutor, the judge, he's gonna go sweep the roads, or what? Times are changing, and I see that people with them as my predecessor, too, believe in this judicial system, even though I claim that there is something wrong with this justice system because there is really only one person who has acted against the state, that against some proceedings have lasted 15 years, they have always been forgiven, and they are talking about how bad laws we have in this country. The competitive clause is totally unacceptable for Members and for the Lipa Group of Members. It is unacceptable because, as I have already said, it strengthens a permanent judicial mandate. Where are you going to throw a judge on the road and then ban him for four more years so he can't perform his legal duties or serve as a prosecutor? He has the same education, the same conditions. Everything is the same, and you don't allow it. On the other hand, this government, the government of Janez Janša, allows auto mechanics to be presidents of the Drava power plants, managers of the Slovenian electric company, supervisors in Telekom. The air conditioning allows the main staff in this country to run the electoral headquarters of the largest government party and are only air conditioning operators. Or someone who used to be in charge of compensation runs a casino today. Or someone who used to clean up "secrets" at the border crossing today sets up streets in some places in this country. Where'd she go?? Isn't that the duplicity of this government? People with the same education, with the same knowledge, want to make it impossible to function for four years to perform a certain function, while they do exactly that in their own kind. From auto mechanics, car salesman to DEM director. Between the Renoult Scene and the management of the Drava Power Plants, I think the resemblance is beautiful, wonderful, man is a framer. During the installation of the climate or the repair of the climate in the National Assembly and during the conduct of a political party or its electoral headquarters, the similarity is remarkable. But it seems to me that between the prosecutor, the lawyer and the judge, at least the education is the one that brings them together. And you're gonna talk about it? Perfect duality, complete politicization, full score. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with your presentation by presenting the views of the Group. As you know, the National Assembly has today expanded its consideration of the agenda by considering this law. The groups for this agenda item were therefore unable to report the time for discussion. I will put the proposal to the vote after the practice so far. Whether you agree that the debater, that is, the Members or the Member, belongs to 5 minutes. Once again, I stress that this is the established practice of the work of the National Assembly. At the same time, I propose that the assembly decide that the speaker may speak only once about the same subject or mother. This proposal will be decided by the National Assembly. I propose that we vote on this. Comrade Sok, this is not a problem for present Members if we are not concluding. We know the rules that we will repeat the vote three times. But before the third vote, I will order a recess. We're voting. There are 24 Members and Members present. We will repeat the vote the second time in accordance with the adopted games, which are called Rules of Procedure. We'll vote next time. We're inconclusive this time, too. There are supposed to be 26 Members and Members present. Before the third vote, I give 10 minutes' rest, which means that the other Members should join us in 10 minutes and ensure a quorum. I'm adjourning the session until 12 o'clock. At 12 noon we continue with the third vote on the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u86	Dear Members! We continue with the meeting of the assembly. This is the third time we have tried to vote on a procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 38 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. In the event of an application, please be careful that anyone can apply for a discussion of Article 2 and the amendment to this Article only once. We are now moving on to the debate on this Article and the amendment to this Article proposed by the SDS, NSI and SLS Members. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Potts, you've raised your hand. Do you have a procedural proposal? The word has Mr. Sok. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u87	Thank you so much for saying that. As far as the content of this law is concerned, the law is in fact clear. It introduces a competitive clause for judges and prosecutors, in the event that they wish to move to the field of law. When I listened to the debate and opposition of some of my fellow Members on the agenda itself today, I wondered all the time why they were actually opposed to such a solution. If this case had been established, legalized, because of Penko's case or, as the media said, "lex Penko" would not have done anything wrong. But perhaps it is wrong that this law will not apply to Mr Penk. That's the wrong thing to do. And we are already quite a few laws, and in other countries we also adopt such laws when there is some problem in practice, when there is some obvious problem that needs to be solved. After all, we named the trial after Lukenda, which was the first case in which an action was received in the European Court of Justice for an abnormal trial or for delaying a judgment in a court of law. And it's nothing wrong. I'd rather say, "scream," if I use that word, Mrs. Bebler. I just don't know what would be wrong with that. We also changed the law because of the Lip case, where there were fatalities. And it is right that the Government and Parliament respond to such and similar cases. I don't want to repeat it, but it's a shame that, gentlemen, when you had scissors and linen in your previous term, you didn't respond to such a case. Let's say in the case of Judge Šubica or the Attorney General of the Railroad and so on. All of this is public knowledge. If they had responded at that time, they would not have had such and similar cases. It was also repeatedly said that this law, when adopted, would deter young lawyers from going to career courtship. I would like us to become judges who have some experience, for example, working for a while in law school or in some other area and then becoming judges. It is not, however, that we here in Parliament, who are not yet 30 years old, are appointed as permanent judges. That's questionable. And I don't think the National Assembly in this system has any more time to deal with this. It is also linked to the amendment of the Constitution and so on, but in the future it will be necessary to make a fundamental change in this area and to approach it, because the area of the judiciary is one of the very sensitive areas of each society or, if you want, state organisation. At this point, there is a debate on whether four years is the appropriate time. Obviously, the proposal was based on the fact that our procedures do not end as quickly as in other Member States of the European Union or elsewhere in the world, and it is comparable to this that it has somehow proposed that this competitive clause should apply for four years. Some think that this is too much, so somehow, as I can see now, the coalition has agreed to propose an amendment for three years. I will not oppose this amendment alone, for the basic purpose of the law will certainly be achieved. It seems to me that such a solution is very good and better to follow it late than never. Obviously, these cases have shown that this law is urgently needed in Slovenia, no matter how it is resolved in some other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u88	Thank you. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me first of all say that, Mr Sok, I admit to you that you have a great advantage over me, namely, this advantage that you do not know much about the things you have been talking about right now, so you can say what you want, what you want. When you say that you can be called a judge here, elect someone who's not 30 years old, you know that you can come here to elect a judge such that a judge must be as old as the law requires of him. It's a case like this. If you are saying that it is necessary to respond to cases such as former judges who went to lawyers, but they have been at issue with you and perhaps even have been, I wonder where this government has been for four years, almost four years, that it has not previously proposed any amendments to the Law on Lawyers, such a change that would have been professionally examined, conceived and not already been legally disputed at first sight. Now, about this amendment. Nor does this amendment address the fundamental problem of the idea itself, conditionally stated, of competitive clauses for a judge or prosecutor who wishes to pursue his professional career as a lawyer. They remain critical of the constitutionally unacceptable restriction on freedom of work, as it is not in line with the principle of proportionality and is not necessary for the protection of the rights of others because it is already governed by other laws, such as the Criminal Procedure Act, the Courts Act, the Judicial Service Act and others. The reasons for this article or this amendment are also unfounded. That is why I will not support this amendment, although I do not claim that three years is better than four years. But still, this amendment is in principle controversial because it is a disputed basic article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr. Sok, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u91	Thank you very much, President, for giving me this opportunity, because Mrs. Bebler's told me I didn't know anything. I believe that lawyers are the part of our society that you've captured with one spoon all the knowledge that the world has conquered and given to yourself. You were covering with the boss, so I agree. So you know everything. But I do know something that the entire Slovenian public knows, Mrs Bebler. Mr Šubic forgot to write his judgment in due course and then went to law instead of a judge. I can say it all the way! Everybody knows that. I don't know what number of files he left behind as the prosecutor put them in an iron closet and then went to law school, the whole Slovenian public knows that. What happened in the Kohorje court with Mr Matoz and then on, the entire Slovenian public knows. Now the entire Slovenian public knows that Mr Penko was meeting as a prosecutor with a client who was supposed to defend him as a lawyer and so on. Listen, then tell the Slovenes they're as stupid as I am who don't know anything about you. And you know everything, and I respect that. I really appreciate you being a great lawyer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u92	Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Good-bye! It is true that the vast majority, or at least a few Slovenian lawyers, that I am more precise, has really taken over with a large "chef", as colleague Sok said, but not with knowledge, but with much "chef" cleverness, how to play legislation, how to make circuits. And of course, that was a good time for them. To be concrete, some gentlemen of the lawyers who have been in this Chamber for several decades are also doing so here in this Chamber, including with this Rules of Procedure. It's just some people's manners, I'm sorry. As a result, they suffer from the Slovenian economy, Slovenian income, development and so on. If I start a disciplinary procedure in the case of Judge Anton Šubic. You can imagine that Janez Breznik, Chief Justice, was appointed President of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia on 15 December 1994 as Disciplinary Prosecutor. And that he was not then appointed to the post of Disciplinary Prosecutor, nor was his deputy, Mr. Judge, aware of that. I mean, it's weird, like he's at some sort of village meeting. But since he didn't know it, and a year and a half doesn't happen to his deputy, then one like Anderlich comes into the process like this here, a scoundrel who doesn't know how to speak when he's not supposed to talk. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u94	Mr. Puksich, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u95	I know, yeah. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u96	Please, hold on. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u97	I'm sorry, but when he apologizes for all the hurtful words he's said to me here in the bench, then there'll be another. Well, and then it finds that it is excluded from disciplinary proceedings against Judge Anton Šubica 14. 6th of 1995. The general council of lawyers of Gorenjska at its meeting 19.9.1995 rated Do you imagine what the general council of lawyers was doing? [[...]] He evaluated Anton Šubica's entire judicial work. He found that Anton Šubic had been doing his judicial work fairly and conscientiously since 1984. Fair and fair - for 9 months he did not write a judgment! Nine months! Fair and fair! You know what else they found out? That Anton Šubic, when he was a judge, was not subject to disciplinary proceedings against him. On the other hand, I have the introduction of a disciplinary procedure which should be carried out by John Breznik, the supreme judge, and, having found out, he himself has eliminated himself within the meaning of Article 39, paragraph 6, and so on. Colleagues and colleagues! He's passing you by, but I'm afraid that's how it was in this country. I hope it doesn't continue, so of course I will support this law, this amendment. It's too bad it's down from four to three years, but O. K. Better this than nothing. Even because we could read about ownership in the paper, "if I was the director himself and knew that I was in danger of losing everything," I don't know what the risk of losing all the directors, "what I have and what I've been trying to do for decades or more, I would probably be trying to damage social property myself." Do you know who said that? Dr. Jože Mencinger, who is today one of the main advisors to Social Democrats and is at the Faculty of Economics along with Križanič and so on. You know, advice like that leads to that sort of action. That's too bad. Thank God we're getting this law, even if it's too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u99	I do not have a replica, but I would like to make it clear that I did not open my mouth during Mr Pukšič's speech, and since the obvious time is very inappropriate for these sessions, and if he did not understand that he was falsely accusing me of listening to these rallies, then it is probably not possible to take for granted what he is interpreting in the debates. But I would expect you to warn him when he's as forgotten as he is now. Once again, I am responsibly telling you that I have not opened my mouth and I have not cast a vote in his speech.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! So first of all, I would like to say that I also support the purpose of the law, but I will also support the amendment. However, I would like to say that this is where the professions are subject to a permanent mandate and also to those who carry out these professions, that there is a permanent mandate, so comparing the competitive clause with the economy is not the most appropriate and I am sure that many from the economy and from the public services would sign a wide range of competitive clauses only if they could have a permanent mandate to have a job until they want to do it themselves. On the other hand, I would like to say that comparison with European Union countries is not always possible, but it is, and I will say why. In many countries of the European Union they have a different approach to the profession, i.e. the way to work is different. It is a matter of separation of examinations for both the judges and the prosecutors. We have this uniform exam, and I think it's also because we're a small country and these professions aren't thousands. In larger countries, however, each profession has its own exam. So if someone wants to move from a judge to a lawyer, they have to get to the beginning and take the exam and then go up again. By making such a system significantly more impossible than this system that we would now introduce with this law, it is significantly stricter and uncomparable. This marriage, if voted, I hope it will be substantially milder. And the next thing I'd like to say about these transitions, we're supposed to have 14 plus 6, so that's 20 in four years, but it's important that the mortgage is kind of dragging itself behind those names. There was something already said today, and I would have just remembered. Look at Mr. Šubic, who forgot to write the file, the defendant. Please, I don't know how this can happen. Six or nine months to forget something in the drawer, not to write what your basic job is, it's probably not common sense that it's possible to forget, that's what it's called, that's probably meant to be. I would remind you of someone who made such a leap, Mr Ironborn, who had over 300 files on economic crime in his closet. Not to mention how much money could have been associated with these 300 writings, certainly billions of dollars at the time. And yet, Mr Penko, we know his treatment of Orion and his co-operation with regard to the SCT, which is connected here. So, I've had a lot of information here today until 12:00, but since 12.01, I'm on the other side, and I'm on the other side, and I'm on the other side, and I'm on the human side. I am sure that if this law were to be passed immediately after Šubic, it would probably not be the Railway, nor would Penk. But if we get married after Penk today, there won't be another case like this. Unfortunately, one of the colleagues said that this would not be the case with Mr Penk. All right, here's to the next one. Why do I also support this basic law because it was four years old? Because the judgements, the proceedings in court take me, I don't know, four, five, six, ten years. Someone said there was more. It is said that at one time or another this matter can be repeated, that you have one piece of information and that you use it for different purposes. And something else - it has been said that because of one speculative case, legislation is changing. Ladies and gentlemen, what all criminal legislation is not precisely because of the possibility of individual cases of the illegality of speculators, or whatever, because of them, the legislation is changing and the Penal Code is precisely because of those. The Penal Code is not for honest citizens, and this law is not for those who have nothing to do with it. And I'm glad there wasn't a lot of these transgressions, so there's a lot of them that don't matter. And the next thing I want to say is that this law is not an attack on judicial matters in general, far from it. I would say that because, as you might say, because Penk changed the law, we protected the others so that the black stain wouldn't fall on everyone else. We're going to protect the court's case so that maybe there's no one who's going to use it to keep them safe so that the others don't get black stains. That's why I support this law and also the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The competition clause is a well-known legal institution, both in Slovenia and around the world. In order to prevent the misuse of information that could be used by someone who moves from one service to another to the detriment of the previous service. And this is true in the business world, and this is also true in other areas, and I do not understand why some of the opposition are so scrupulously defending themselves that this institution would be introduced in this area, so that it would also apply to judges, so that it would also apply to prosecutors who are turning into lawyers. There may also be damage to information abuse. And that's why we need to make sure that the law does not. Just like it is in other areas. And of course, because of some cases that would abuse this information, a competitive clause should also be introduced here. Contracts are also concluded in order to avoid abuse in individual cases. If that were not the case, there would be no need to conclude contracts in the business world. And, of course, here too, a competitive clause is introduced to ensure that information is not misused in individual cases. That's perfectly clear. We can discuss whether the deadline is four years or three years, which is more appropriate. That could be a dilemma. But to reject this clause, I don't understand it. The National Assembly has adopted a competitive clause for police officers. We, in this mandate, have adopted a competitive police clause for four years. No member, not from the coalition or from the opposition, objected. They were all present and agreed to the vote. No one has discussed this solution for the police. And now the cops are four years old after this marriage. This is a matter for judges and prosecutors who perform a special function, a mission, have a special status, have a permanent mandate and are expected to be even stricter here by the nature of the matter. But no, here with the amendment will be the deadline instead of four, three years. So it's even shorter than the cops. Why do you object to this here with so much balance? I don't understand. The last representative of the parliamentary group to present his position spoke like this. How is it that all those who are against judicial backlogs are now saying this and that. Yes, I have now even heard that one parliamentary group for judicial backlogs is supporting judicial backlogs. And that is then justified by the fact that it here opposes the introduction of a competitive clause. To this day, I have been convinced that we are all in this House, all the parliamentary groups, against the judicial backlogs, that we are advocating that the judicial backlogs be abolished. Well, today we've heard, there's a group of Members standing by and supporting judicial backlogs. We have also experienced this knowledge today. So, I support the amendment, although, of course, I would advocate with all the arguments that there should be a 4-year deadline for this competitive clause. But good, even a 3-year-old-- better this than nothing happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I will not support the amendment's proposal so that I do not give the impression of supporting any deadline and supporting the law by voting to reduce the four-year deadline. For me, the main problem in this law is the following, for the first time - I am sure, once again, that there is no need to adopt the law overnight. This does not mean that I do not recognize many problems in the judiciary, but I think that the way that this power is going on, that I am not talking about how Members and Members are being tackled, with many insulting debates - this cannot help solving the problems of justice. It'll hurt sooner. And before that, I had to finish my five-minute introductory presentation with that part that I wanted to tell you why it would hurt. Because if anyone thinks that it is possible for the judges we have invested in, for whom we would like to be not a profession, but a mission that we would like to say is irreparable, in every sense effective, with rich knowledge, fair and similar, to keep in the judiciary in such a way that they have impossible working conditions, as some claim that their conditions are only gradually regulated, that the state offends them when it is not prepared to negotiate with them on their material position, that we will resolve all of this by prohibiting them from going into the legal profession in the next 4 years, then I do not understand such logic. I don't understand and you won't convince me. All the insults that have already been and may still be said about the judiciary's profession and I have not heard that the Government should resist them, but should, most definitely, resist them, with such laws as are actually proposed by such a way of debate, in some way even allowing them indirectly not to say that I encourage them, because they probably do not want them to. But this is the tragic position of our justice. Look, we're talking about cases that I don't think have anything to do with crossing. Once again, I say a certain part of the competitive clause of existence. There is a specific article on the duration of the term of office and on the grounds that the judge must do nothing else to prevent him from having full confidence in his integrity and the correctness of the trial. In general and concrete terms, and in a transferred sense, and in a certain sense also exists after the end of the function. Because someone who's tried can't represent someone else about the same thing or carry out prosecutions. And this isn't even about a competitive clause. This is a matter of grave errors, you can, if you want, even for illegality, if you want, even for individual crimes that must be proven by individuals. Only this is not resolved by making it impossible for all, a good thousand two hundred judges and state prosecutors, to go into another business for the next four years if they decide to do so and thus create different conditions for all those who would go into this profession in the future. And we are doing this on a specific case that we will not even be able to solve with this law, which is understandable, because yesterday only the mother's labour body accepted warnings from the Legal and Legislative Service that retroactive application of the law would not be correct and useful. Therefore, I think that, as the President of the State has said, we will no longer have to organise Members of the new mandate of the National Assembly and the new authorities to gradually step by step, as the President of the State has said, create conditions for normal functioning and responsible work in the courts, in order to gradually increase the reputation of justice. We also help with the decisions we make in the National Assembly, as well as with decent discussions, but not as we do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Marolt has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I listened with attention to this debate. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to respond to some of the eyewitnesses. The proposed amendment of the law does not introduce any discrimination as has been reported. Apparently, there was some retro-discrimination, the absence of the right to choose was obvious, that's not true. The fact is that the law lays down the conditions under which a judge or prosecutor may leave after the expiry of a judicial or prosecutorial function after four or after the proposed amendment after three years. In the meantime, he will be able to perform any other legal task. For we know that the legal profession is in some ways the most universal, the lawyer is the easiest to get a job, not only in the judiciary, but also in the public administration, in the economy, in the public sector, in the non-economic sector, in banking, in insurance and many other activities. And if you allow me, I would only give a comparison; I think it's a lot harder for an ex-cop to find a suitable job, he's more limited in his choice of choice, looking for a job for four years, and only after four years can he do detective work. I would also like to point out that that Law on Detective Activity, mentioned above, was adopted within the mandate of the previous Government, under the mandate of the previous Members of the National Assembly, i.e. the previous coalition. In the mandate of this government, within the mandate of the current coalition, the amendment merely raised a competitive clause or a competitive ban from two to four years. And once again, in the Constitutional Court, this law has successfully passed its constitutional judgment. I would also mention that, as Mr Rezman mentioned, the Minister of Justice made it clear on the Committee yesterday that judges, prosecutors, the possibility of open employment or relocation to work, including at the Ministry of Justice, which is also in line with comparable European countries. And if you'll excuse me, I'd also like to share this information with the National Assembly and the public. In Austria, employees, university-graduate lawyers at the Ministry of Justice are exclusively judges and prosecutors. In Germany, the Federal Ministry of Justice carries out all professional tasks, judges and prosecutors. Over 300 employed judges and prosecutors. This is a practice and practice in developed democracies, and this practice has also been implemented in our mandate, including in our ministry, and we have about 10 judges and prosecutors carrying out various professional tasks, from drafting legislation to participating in the Presidency of the European Union. Their work and their experience have greatly contributed to the successful Presidency of the European Union and other professional tasks. As regards the competitive clause and the aforementioned laws in stock, I would only remind you that, in the previous term, your mandate, in the mandate of the opposition in 2002, the former Minister of Justice appointed a working group, which prepared the working material of the law on forms of education and state examinations in the judiciary, and this law was even stricter, since it stipulated two types or two exams, first the general judicial or legal examination, then, after two years, a two-year special specialisation for the prosecution function and then a second examination. This clause or working material was even more stringent and practically prevented the transition between judicial functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u108	Thank you. Since there is still interest after the debate, I am reopening the application. Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u109	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! Indisputably, the reputation and authority of justice are essential not only for legal security in the country but also for a sense of justice in people. It is incontrovertible that the latter institution, which is supposed to restore this sense of balance that has broken somewhere. I think we all agree on that. However, we do not agree on where the primary responsibility lies so that this balance and this feeling in our country, after all attempts in recent years, is still lacking. It is interesting, however, that whatever we have adopted in the National Assembly, when we have amended legislation in this area, when we have taken measures that would allow this system to function differently, we have listened to criticism by the opposition, what we are doing, and that we are doing forcefully to the judiciary, that we are taking solutions that are not European, that the measures we take are not good, that they will not produce legal fruits and results, and that they will not solve the essence of the problem. So where is the key responsibility that we continue to talk after all these years about the fact that this system does not work as it should and that it does not provide people with a sense of legal certainty? Somewhere else than in the system itself. Although one part of this happened when a judicial reform took place in 1995, which was obviously not well thought out or even designed to allow certain phenomena to take place in the years to come, and which also had to be protected by the fact that those who owned the entire Slovenian economy during that period would not have come before the judicial authorities. Maybe. But I think this period is very far away and it's good to look at what we've been doing in this area lately. Both the Government and the National Assembly believe that they have taken a number of measures during this period, and I do not think that any of the judges proposed by the Council of Justice in this Assembly have been rejected in this mandate. None. But we can probably agree, despite the fact that - yes, the law determines the minimum age - now whether this is too low or not is a matter of debate. The fact is that this feature is always younger and the question of whether it also contributes to the quality of the decision-making that is taking place in this system. I'd say not before. And the fact that we have an extremely large number of judges compared to other European countries. So there is no malnutrition, nor is material equipment such that things do not flow as they should. And even though we all realize that the system is not working well and that it is bad for the legal security of the country whenever we accept something, it is an immediate resistance. Interestingly, all incompetent judges and prosecutors become capable lawyers overnight. How is that possible? Previously, they were incompetent, no reverberators had been able to complete, for decades they had been through procedures, and overnight the same people became extremely successful lawyers. Proveable, I don't have to name names. How is that possible? It is said that this system is not so bad in itself that it generates excellent people who can't function in one pair of pants and in others can function well. I don't think we're going to make any major changes with this novel, but we're going to prevent one very dangerous situation, whether it's really normal for someone who was rolling a file yesterday to have an insight into specific data, to turn into the lawyer of the same one who was chasing him overnight. That's unacceptable. This should simply not happen because the feeling, the signals that we send through these actions to the public are negative. Among people, they feel that some are untouchable, usually those who can overpay these things. That's not good. The system has to work the same for everyone. And if this change, which is relatively small, is really so problematic, then I ask myself, what if more radical changes were made that would allow this system to start functioning better, not to accumulate backlogs, that people in reasonable time would come to the right that they expect, and that judges and prosecutors would deal not with minor cases and corruption thefts, but with those things that are the main burden of creating a sense of legal danger in our country. That's the main problem. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And we're not gonna put an end to this novel, but there's a little pebble in this story. [[...]] That's why I'm going to support this amendment and this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr. Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will support the amendment to reduce the ban to three years, but we could also consider reducing this ban to two years. The Labour Relations Act is aware of a competitive clause which is limited to two years. Of course, this would be possible if our justices were different, if it were up to date and if there were less judicial backlogs. In labour law, we meet with two institutes, and they were also mentioned here today. One is a competitive ban and the other is a competitive clause. And a competitive ban, as far as I understand it, is a ban on the time of employment, while a competitive clause is a ban on the time when an individual terminates the employment contract. That's kind of what the Labour Relations Act says. And the competitive clause is nothing new in the Slovenian space, and there is no new restriction on transitions from one activity to another. The police were already mentioned here today. We adopted the New Law on Foreign Affairs in the National Assembly days ago, where we severely restricted access to diplomatic functions, in particular to politicians, journalists and all who do not come from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because we simply wrote down one of the conditions for an individual to be employed for 7 years at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are the ones who set the rules of the game in this country, in the National Assembly we set certain limits and even limits. And therefore, if anyone says that this is the case, in this discrimination law, then it goes also in the case of transitions to diplomacy for discrimination. For example, where it says that someone sitting in an office in Mladika for seven years may be a better diplomat than a professor, a doctor of international law, who goes to diplomacy right away from college. Where does it say that? It is true, however, that in this case there is an objective risk of abuse of the prosecutor’s or the court’s profession if a judge or a prosecutor appears as a lawyer immediately. And there is something about these cases in the Slovenian space, and today we have heard about it quite a bit. And this novel of the law gives some opportunity to at least partially reduce these anomalies. Nevertheless, I am more concerned about certain values than I am about, some of the ethical principles of individual lawyers operating in the Slovenian justice system. After a quick legal course, a police officer and a criminalist can become a lawyer, get a license as a lawyer, and then something soon can turn his criminal skills into criminal knowledge, into criminal acts. I had a nice case myself on my skin, but I wouldn't talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr. Homan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment or the law myself. Each feature has its own competitive clause or profession, but if we want from a painter, a car mechanic, a chef, wherever a person is employed, it writes how many years he must not work in a competitive society or engage in competitive activities. What are the exceptions to judges or prosecutors? There's nothing going on here for them. They were not covered in the previous system or in the current system. If they're even more papal than the pope, then every judge of the jury, how much there is in there a clause can't say, what can't be done, and what a small salary, for that symbolic one, I'd say, an improvement, five euros to be dealt with in court, a juror sitting there. And none of the judges who today say how bad their wages are are are going to go for that judge's resident colleague to raise his salary. They can take care of themselves, but they can't take care of their coworkers. They were able to see to it that they could go from one job to another, to specific fellow workers, who went to court and are just as important as judges, even for the entire day. If he brings a car into a parking lot, there's no parking space in the parking lot. On the other hand, I feel sorry for those judges who go to lawyers to lie on behalf of the accused on a number of occasions, and I feel sorry for them to cross over from what they have done before, and then defend their defendants. And that's why I'm happy to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u114	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u115	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will not support the amendment as I do not intend to uphold the law. I think that the government is making such laws, and the coalition is doing so by "forcing" such laws to the rule of law. We're adopting a law that is actually a penal nature. A specific case should be an excuse for what we are doing. And this argument is actually very embarrassing. I listened to the Minister of Justice, who said that there was a need to create a sense of impartiality with the judges. I have nothing to do with my appearance, and nothing helps me. I note, however, that the Government, with its attitude towards the judiciary, is actually helping to increase tensions between citizens and citizens and between the judiciary. I don't think we're doing anything useful if this relationship between the individual branches of government goes down to the level that it is now, which falls under the level of acceptable and dignified and even what one branch of the other should recognise, and it doesn't. I will not say anything new about the fact that it is also likely that the President's address to the National Assembly has helped to do so, because it is because he has the last word in determining what is right and what is wrong, people, that the rule of law is known how the rule of law has been put in place and how civil standards have been established. Some young countries in another continent have experienced what it is like to have people decide and share their rights and why courts are needed. What I find unacceptable is that Mr State Secretary explains what opportunities all lawyers have to look for services. Yes, if you look at Slovenian literature there are a lot of lawyers among Slovenian literature, they also know how to write well, and there is something else to do. But we're talking about exactly what they can and can't do. And what bothers me is that the Justice Minister had a completely different view six months ago of what was right and what was wrong, what was permissible and what was not permissible. Now, in six months, things have changed a lot. And the double criteria are obvious. We are very sorry, we have quoted from the magnetogram the reply of the Minister of Justice to the question. And one more thing, Mr Secretary of State, is that we are Members and Members to vote on the draft laws that have been tabled in the legislative procedure. What someone has prepared as working material and has not seen the stage of the legislative process, you can know that and you can talk about it, but it is essential to us what has been mediated in the legislative process and only we can decide on it. And what I can find out for the laws of the judiciary is that in this mandate, ignoring different professional opinions was so obvious that, on the basis of experience, when it was first found that any change was not to the place or sufficiently well thought out, or it proved to be a bad change, that it could be an experience that would help us not to make laws that are so thoughtless and that create so many possibilities. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] and inappropriate and also discriminatory. [[...]] Of course, it's a lawyer who can get into a lawyer's office, how can he get in, a thing that's also arranged for a European lawyer. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u116	Thank you. The Secretary of State, Mr Marolt, made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. If you allow me, I would respond immediately to the statements made by the honourable Member of the State of Potrate, who spoke before me, if the law or amendment of the law is of a criminal nature. That's not true. The amendment of the law is not penal in nature, because the reason for the necessity of legal restriction and impunity is not punishment - I hope it is separate; there are two. Firstly, the fact is that without a certain restriction, the exercise of a legal profession for former judges and prosecutors is at risk of effectively exercising the individual's right to a fair trial. Of course, it is not only that the trial is actually fair, but that everyone in the trial must have the sense that the trial is truly fair. The legislator’s task, therefore, is not only to ensure a fair trial by means of legislation, but to exclude all elements that would arouse doubts about fairness and impartiality of the trial. I reiterate that this position has been highlighted by the Constitutional Court for the last time by Decision No. UP679/2006 and UI20/2007, 25. 5. 2006. In the 42nd recital of this decision, which referred to the position of the European Court of Human Rights, it stressed, again, that, according to the position of the European Court of Human Rights, the existence of an impartial trial is determined by such subjective criteria as to determine the personal conviction of the judge who decides on the complete case, as well as by an objective criterion in which the judgment or the judge in the proceedings ensures the fulfilment of procedural guarantees by excluding anyone who is entitled to doubt its impartiality. In the exercise of the right to an impartial trial, it is not only that the impartiality of the trial is in fact ensured, but that it must also be reflected outside. It is the so-called appearance of impartiality of the trial. It is therefore important for the court to create or maintain the appearance of impartiality in a specific case. Otherwise, both public confidence in the impartiality of the courts in general and the confidence of the parties in the impartiality of the trial in a particular case may be compromised. And those views were reiterated by the European Court of Human Rights in the judgment of Švarc and Kavnik v Slovenia and so on. If you don't mind, I'd like to add this. Others in the EU also have judges, judicial associations and other competent judicial authorities, and they also have outstanding respect for various codes of ethics, codes of judicial function. This is also discussed by judges and other eminent experts at a number of judicial consultations, associations. And of course, it has a very important role to play within the legal or judicial framework, as well as the prosecutor’s code. With regard to the evidence that the Ministry of Justice is ignoring expert opinions. At the Ministry of Justice, we study every expert opinion and take the utmost account of it. The fact is, however, that every expert opinion can never be objectively taken into account if two expert opinions are weighed and examined, which are contradictory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u118	Thank you. Do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to replicate because I did not use the term criminal nature in the legal way in which you, Mr Secretary of State, answered me. But in the way we are to deal with it, we are talking about ethical and moral examples. The penalty for a sin that some feel has been committed is that the law now has to rush against such conduct. The crime has not been proven, but there is a talk of unethical conduct and now these matters must be sanctioned. We have an ethical code of government, we have an ethical code of civil servants, one way or another, but that's why we haven't changed the laws yet because someone violated the ethical code of that nature. And what I think is really evident in this case is that it is also clear from the debates that a specific situation has triggered the adoption of this law and the introduction of what has been put into place quickly and will also be adopted quickly. What is more, from what the profession proposes is taken into account, is another question and now goes beyond the scope of the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u121	Mr President, I have a procedural proposal. The National Assembly had previously adopted, in a vote, that one matter, in this case, is discussed by everyone only once after five minutes. I find that the government has not been exempted from this. The government has now had a second opportunity, and I think that this is already 10 minutes and I would ask you, this is my proposal, Mr President, that in the future you do not give your word under this same amendment, because it has now taken advantage of its opportunity and thus puts us in a somewhat unequal position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u122	Dear Mr Gantar, the Rules of Procedure and also the Procedural Proposal were only for Members. The Government, as a candidate, has the opportunity and must be able to participate in the debate whenever it wishes. Now, in accordance with the agreement at the College, I am adjourning the debate on this item, which we will continue after the third point, because the President of the Government will join us and we will move on to the 2nd item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u123	We just received a message from the government that the Prime Minister will be here five minutes, that's at 13.10. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u124	Messengers, honourable Members! We're continuing our session of the National Assembly. So we're going to move on to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THE REPORT ON THE PRESIDENTING OF THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION OF 1. January to 30. JUNE 2008, DECISION OF THE EUROPEAN COUNCIL OF 19. AND 20. JUNE 2008. The report was submitted to the Council by the Government. I give the floor to the President of the Government for further presentation of the report. Mr President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u125	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The project of the Presidency of the European Union was given a green light in this Chamber by your decision taken in November 2004. Today, three and a half years later, and by considering the report in this same hall, this project will also receive its epilogue. For Slovenia, the interim period represented one of the biggest substantive and organisational challenges since the independence of Slovenia. During this time, we have chaired the Council of the European Union and the European Council, and this in itself, given the functioning of the European Union, is the primary responsibility of the Government of the Presidency. However, this project is so demanding that it was actually a national project and there was a need for engagement, as well as synergies between different national factors and the National Assembly had a very important role to play in this project. About one completely final assessment, at this point it is difficult to judge objectively, especially because the European Union has taken some steps at this time that will only produce results. And since the breakthroughs have been achieved in some of the dossiers that have been waiting for a number of years and that will become known in the wider European public only in the coming years. However, at this time, it is said a few weeks after the end of this project, as an important first indicator or as an important lacquer, that those who have been monitoring and evaluating these rotating presidencies for a number of years, and the assessments of these institutions are extremely positive, could say. The data collected in the report that we have before us today speak for themselves. They apply both to the substantive aspect and to the financial, human resources, logistics and, finally, to the promotional dimensions of the Presidency itself. About 3,000 participants were directly involved in the project and in the 6 months when Slovenia had this responsibility, the group carried out more than 8,000 different events in Slovenia, Europe and around the world. At the same time, Slovenia had a significantly smaller human resources potential and also a significantly smaller financial resource than most of the Presidencys before us, so that we did not face any less difficult issues and also all the routine tasks carried out by others with greater resources and greater financial resources, we also carried out. Slovenia has proven that it is also a small and, in particular, a new or younger Member State, capable of leading a European 27-year-old. And this is a good starting point for our further steps on the international scene. Moreover, this experience is also a good trip for all the other countries that come after us to lead the European Union and went together with us in 2004 and two or three years later. The objective we set ourselves in the beginning was, in fact, based on these assumptions, which I have just mentioned. Our goal was not to make the presidency one great idea, which will be discussed for six months, and then everyone will forget about it. Our goal was to carry out this task responsibly, with the right emphasis, with an impartial approach and professionalism. Our task, of course, was also to implement part of the 18-month Presidency programme, which was adopted in trio, together with Germany and Portugal. Usually in the end, since we were at the end of this 18-month programme, there are still many more from the previous two Presidencies, and that is how it happened with us. In view of the situation in the European Union prior to the start of our Presidency and in view of this Tria programme, we draw five strategic points: monitoring the ratification process of the Treaty of Lisbon, launching the second cycle of the Lisbon Strategy, progress in addressing energy and climate issues, strengthening the European perspective of the Western Balkans and promoting intercultural dialogue. The programme that I presented in this National Assembly on 20 December last year, which you supported by all the parliamentary groups, was ambitious, but realistic, and today we can confirm this in the end. Others also acknowledge that, within these priority files, we have achieved everything that could have been achieved in the given circumstances. With regard to the first priority, ratification or monitoring of the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, we have achieved a set objective, which has also been quantifiable in some way. At the start of the Presidency, we said and then also encouraged the other Member States in this direction that it would be very good to ratify the Treaty by two thirds of the Member States in the first half of the year. The final number when we handed over the French presidency was 19, which is over two-thirds. And although there has also been a negative referendum outcome in Ireland in the meantime, this process has not stopped, following this referendum in Ireland, five more Member States have ratified the Lisbon Reform Treaty. Today, there are only a few besides Ireland that have not done so. In fact, in this first priority, the real follow-up to the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon was also one of the major unexpected challenges, a little later, because Slovenia was leading the European Union and also the second European Council meeting during our presidency, just at a time when the consequences of the negative referendum in Ireland had to be faced and steps forward co-ordinated in a situation that was very unpredictable. As far as Slovenia is concerned, we have rushed the ratification or ratified the treaty as another Member State. By respecting all the procedures. This was also an understandable step in the light of the situation we were in. It would be difficult to encourage others to hurry if they did not do so first. With regard to the situation arising after the negative referendum in Ireland, there have been many discussions, including many different assessments, but it should be stressed first that Slovenia has respected the principle and principle that each Member State itself decides on how to ratify, that each State is sovereign in doing so, that those who put such proceedings into the hands of voters or any other institution, because there are also regional parliaments involved and so on, of course, expect no one to interfere too much with these procedures. And Slovenia respected this principle. From this point of view, of course, it is unwise to discuss whether the European institutions, as well as Slovenia, which led the European Council or also the Council of the EU, could engage in this debate and contribute to such or other results in Ireland. Not only would this be inappropriate in the light of the procedure as it is, but it would also be legally controversial in view of the legal practice in Ireland, where those who led the anti-ratification campaign had in advance threatened to challenge in the Constitutional Court any cooperation of any European institution or of any non-Irish citizen in favour of a positive campaign, if this was interference in Ireland's internal affairs, because it was formally in Ireland for a change of constitution, which was decided at that referendum. Because Ireland would ratify a contract to amend its own constitution. As a result, the key challenge was, of course, to coordinate or coordinate the reactions to this situation, which emerged after this result in the Irish referendum and, of course, in preparing the starting points or in setting up steps to be taken in advance. Comparatively, this was probably the biggest challenge of our presidency, and no procedures were envisaged how to proceed. There were, internally, different opinions, also different reactions prepared and a lot of efforts were made to calm the response of virtually all Member States, to coordinate and coordinate such a response or reaction properly. At the European Council in mid-June, already after this referendum, this has become a key topic, at least for the public. Nevertheless, the Slovenian Presidency did not change the agenda. We have also addressed all the other challenges, especially when the European Union has faced rising food, oil, raw materials, the irritation of life in the EU and the measures recommended to the various European institutions in this regard. The European Council has also adopted a specific document related to the European perspective of the Western Balkans, which was one of our priorities, and in some ways has done a sum or an assessment of our achievements. With regard to the Treaty of Lisbon itself, the European Council has adopted guidelines that are now being implemented in practice. It's basically three guidelines. Firstly, the solutions to this situation do not go through or will not go through, should not go beyond a harmonised reform treaty, all countries have signed this treaty, should build from here on out, there is no option to seek a third version of the Constitutional Treaty, there is nothing else under the Reform Treaty, so this foundation remains, and there is a solution that all Member States, including Ireland, will be able to complete the ratification process within a certain period of time. The fact that the proceedings continue not only that they were concluded, this was proved by the United Kingdom, which ratified the Treaty, at the time immediately after the known results of the referendum in Ireland were known. This was a very important step, which has made it much easier to find solutions on the European Council itself and then three other countries followed. At the time or in the autumn of October, when the next European Council will be under French presidency, the next step will be taken, and until then it is expected that no country will actually be except Ireland, perhaps partly the Czech Republic, because it is part of a constitutional court procedure that would not carry out the parliamentary ratification procedure, and this will be another situation. Ireland will also face this situation and will have to make a decision accordingly. The European Union is not facing this situation for the first time, and similar situations have been accepted by the European Union following the ratification of the Treaty of Maastricht and also the last Treaty of Nice, since it was Ireland that first rejected the Treaty and then, after partial modification, which applied only to Ireland. So, whatever the stagnation of the Lisbon Reform Treaty itself is in some way unpleasant, it is also unproductive because it distracts attention from the other things that are open. This has not stopped the European Union, stopped neither the ratification process nor will stop the final solution. Our second priority during the presidency was the Lisbon Strategy, which was almost entirely dedicated to the March European Council, which I have already reported to you. On this European Council, we have launched a new three-year cycle of the Lisbon Strategy or the renewed Lisbon Strategy, which will focus on the implementation of reforms themselves in this second cycle. Measures to strengthen European innovation, creativity, entrepreneurship have come to the fore. The fifth freedom was introduced, that is the free movement of knowledge. This is the basis of the European Research Area. There are still many untapped potentials that will be exploited as soon as this fifth freedom comes to pass. The so-called Ljubljana Process was also set up to remove the last obstacles to the circulation of knowledge and talent in the European Union. An important milestone on this path is also the confirmation of the legal basis for the establishment of the European Institute for Innovation and Technology and the establishment of a seat, which was achieved after considerable coordination and coordination during the Slovenian Presidency. At the same time, we respected the principle that the locations of new agencies or new European institutions are in the new Member States. With regard to this principle, there were a number of questions: the old Member States have run for office for this institution, and the Slovenian Presidency has spent a lot of energy, so that this principle was then included in the conclusions of the June European Council. This means that Slovenia, too, in future candidates, is already running, this is a candidate for the agency's supervisory authority, Galileo's department agency, in some way allowing real access to these possibilities. By agreeing to this principle, the number of candidates from 14 to the headquarters of this Galileo supervisory agency has decreased to two members, Slovenia and the Czech Republic, which significantly increases the chances of Slovenia acquiring this seat, which would be extremely important. In June, the European Council added to the conclusions adopted by the European Council on the second cycle of the Lisbon Strategy, some of which further strengthen the scientific research base and cooperation on the ground of the European Union, even when it comes to the already mentioned resource agency or the seat of the Galileo supervisory authority, a substantive movement took place during the Slovenian Presidency. Earlier, the whole project was due to the lack of an implementation regulation, the so-called trialogue, which is said to have been a trial between the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission for a long time in a dead end. In honor of our Presidency, we have moved the matter forward and, at the signing a few days ago, the President of the European Parliament also gave a special recognition to Slovenia that the project had moved. This agreement will also have an important impact on the quality of life of each individual in Europe, opening the door to quality European satellite navigation services. This satellite support will not only allow the development of certain industrial or high-tech activities in terms of research, development, of course, will also allow for many concrete solutions that will be used everywhere - from transport forward - and in fact something that interferes with the area of development defined by the term 'new industrial revolution'. The Eurostars programme was also very receptive. More than 200 applications came to the first call, of which 13 Slovenians are particularly happy. The Slovenian Presidency was most commended for the two components of the Lisbon Strategy, which were acquired in 2005 in terms of people's care and environmental care. We have drawn these conclusions from the assumption that economic growth in itself does not in itself bring the benefits we all want if we do not balance it, unless we balance it with the appropriate steps in the social and environmental fields, of course, while the Lisbon strategy remains firmly anchored in the principle that economic growth is an indispensable basis for all other steps. In the area of social affairs, we have been waiting for a long time during the Slovenian Presidency, coordinated, postponed agreement on working time directives and on temporary workers. These two directives, these two decisions, have significantly improved the social situation of workers in many Member States of the European Union, where their rights previously related to working time or temporary work have been less protected than they are now. We have also adopted an undertaking to progressively implement the common principles of general security and to strengthen investment in people. Both are crucial both for competitiveness in the era of globalisation and for the effectiveness of the fight against inequality and poverty. During the first half of this year, a good basis for the adoption of the energy-climate package was prepared by the end of this year. We reached agreement on key principles and timetables on March in the European Council, and then, in a number of working groups, we have to a large extent unified our views on the proposals themselves. The objective here was clear, in cooperation with the European Parliament, we are adopting concrete solutions even during this mandate of the European Parliament and of the European Commission, and on this basis we are trying, as the European Union, to reach or to form a global agreement that needs to be reached before the Copenhagen conference, in December next year and in some way to establish an effective policy against climate change for the post-Kyota period. We have already held several informal meetings with the European Parliament on this timeline, and we have placed climate and energy issues high or, we could say, at all peaks with third countries of Japan, Latin America and the Caribbean, the United States and the Russian Federation. This topic is something where other global factors recognise the European Union's leadership. Much is expected of the European Union in the future, including at all these meetings, even where they have not done so directly, they have come to know, directly between the lines, that without the European Union going forward, it leads to the principles it will establish for itself also externally, in a global context, that without this it is not possible to be optimistic about the post-Kyoto agreement. We are also very pleased with the agreement with the European Parliament and the harmonisation that allows a step forward on the integration of air transport into the emissions trading scheme, which is one of the key measures for a comprehensive reduction of emissions. In the area of environmental protection, we have also confirmed a number of other legislation, the Waste Directive, for example, which introduces more efficient waste management; the Water Quality Environmental Standards Directive, which ensures safer management of harmful substances, the Environmental Criminal Law Directive, which defines worse crimes against the environment with devastating consequences for human health and the environment. We have also achieved a very important and difficult step towards sustainable and competitive energy supply, and I am thinking of an agreement on the third legislative package for the liberalisation of the internal market for electricity and gas. At the beginning of our presidency, many said that this would be a test stone for the ability of the Slovenian Presidency when it comes to coordinating different interests between large or very influential Member States. If we move here, then this will prove that a small member of the European Union can also influence the strategic factors, and that was Slovenia, after this agreement has been reached, also recognised. The legislative package should be further aligned with the European Parliament. There were slightly larger demands here, but now the process is running and in any event it will be completed in real time. But if it hadn't been started, this hope would not, in fact, have been, especially since the country that holds the presidency behind us, but also at least the next country, did not have it in any way, or would not have it among its priorities, because it was included in one side with different views. Within the framework of the third priority, the June European Council also formally confirmed that, in the first half of this year, we have strengthened the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries. Cooperation with the countries of the southern and eastern neighbourhood of the European Union has also been strengthened during this period. Integration - in this regard, let me say that this priority of ours was, in fact, European enlargement and neighbourhood policy and was wider than the Western Balkans, as opposed to what has been read several times. From this point of view, it has also been more difficult. Steps have been taken practically further, both in the Western Balkans and in the Mediterranean or in the southern neighbourhood as well as at the entrance, by confirming the Eastern Partnership projects, but of these three areas, the Western Balkans has certainly been the most demanding of these priorities. In a way, several challenges that we had not planned have also fallen at this time. For some, we hoped that they would pass by sooner or that they would be saved sooner. That didn't happen. The announcement, the unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence, took place right during our presidency. The situation in this regard has been tense throughout the region. During our presidency, the debate on the so-called police reform in Bosnia and Herzegovina also intensified. This reform was a condition for the signing of the Association Agreement. Both cases were successfully resolved. The additional challenge was the unstable situation in Serbia, during the Slovenian Presidency there were two early or extraordinary elections in that country. Nevertheless, despite the declaration of Kosovo's independence, despite the unstable situation in Serbia, despite the two early elections, we were able to reach the signing of the Association and Stabilisation Agreement with Serbia in the end, a achievement which at the beginning of the year did not have nearly any chance at European stakes. Everyone claimed that this was something that could not be planned by the end of this year, not until the end of the Slovenian Presidency. With a balanced smart policy, Slovenia has also influenced the behaviour of other European institutions and, on this basis, has somehow strengthened confidence in the region itself, has also strengthened the hope in the region itself that the European perspective is real, and has certainly also affected the victory of the pro-European forces in the parliamentary elections in Serbia, and these forces have also managed to form a pro-European government. Also at the beginning of this year, there were virtually no bets on the European bets in this direction. However, these political breakthroughs or achievements in this region are not the only ones that have happened. When it comes to the interests of individuals, people, citizens and citizens of the countries of the Western Balkans, concrete steps may be even more important. We have thus managed, despite many concerns, an open dialogue on visa waivers. This will make travel to the European Union significantly easier for the citizens of the countries of the regions. We have set up an investment framework for the Western Balkans, which will enable more efficient financing of development projects in the region itself. In the specific declaration to the conclusions of the June European Council, we have also highlighted efforts to strengthen contacts in the region and its relationship with the European Union, from the transport agreement, through energy cooperation, to scholarships for students and researchers. Inside these perspectives was certainly the most sensitive period and the greatest challenge was the time for the declaration of Kosovo independence. We have managed to ensure the unity of the European Union in concrete responses to this action. The appointment of the Special Representative was particularly important. Regardless of or despite black predictions, the situation continues to stabilise. On this basis, Friday's Donor Conference for Kosovo has raised 1.2 billion Euros of contributions for the next three years, and will help the international community create the conditions for normal life and development. This conference would, in fact, be irrelevant if we did not ensure a stable situation so that those who contribute believe that they will be used productively at all. As has already been said, we have also paid a lot of attention to the southern and eastern neighbourhood of the European Union. Within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy, we have begun to implement the Black Sea Synergy Initiative. So far, the framework for cooperation in the Mediterranean or the Barcelona process has been upgraded with the Union for the Mediterranean. To a large extent, the final image of this Union is also the fruit of our additions, proposals or the narrowing down of the basic idea of the Union for the Mediterranean. We have achieved that this link is now such that it involves all the countries of the European Union, that it does not miss anyone, that it also provides an upgrade to what has been done, that it does not break the fact that there is no one, no bad will in terms of competition between two equal or two different processes for the same environment. And we have also achieved a significant shift or concentration on concrete projects. On Sunday in Paris, we also formally launched this Union process for the Mediterranean among the six concrete projects mentioned or listed. At the very beginning of this process is also a Slovenian project, which is the Euro-Mediterranean University. In fact, the only entirely new project created at the time the initiative was developing. It has been highlighted in virtually all debates by European and other interlocutors, including Arab, as the greatest added value of this upgrade of the Barcelona process. And the project itself, it is said, the Euro-Mediterranean University itself already has more than 50 signed contracts for concrete cooperation with various scientific research institutions in the Mediterranean countries and also those countries of the European Union that are not Mediterranean. We have also launched the so-called Eastern Partnership project in June, which, even in the eastern neighbourhood of the European Union, gives special additional attention and in some ways establishes a transitional period in which it will also decide whether at least most of the countries of this Eastern Partnership, these 6 neighbours of the European Union in the East, have a full-fledged membership perspective, or whether other options will be sought. Within the framework of the fifth priority, we have set up frameworks for a longer-term intercultural dialogue. In the context of the discussions that we have led to this priority, there has been a full expression of the fact that the success of the first 50 years of the European Union has largely depended on intercultural synergies within the European Union between Member States at continental level, but that the continuation of this success, growth and development of the European Union over the next 50 years depends largely on how successful intercultural dialogue will be at global level, particularly intercultural dialogue in the neighbourhood. The already mentioned project of the Euro-Mediterranean University as one of the concrete projects within the Union for the Mediterranean is a concrete expression of this trend and of this intercultural dialogue in the immediate neighbourhood of the European Union. This dilemma or this challenge, whether the European Union will be able to form in the neighbourhood, but also more broadly, when it becomes a strong global factor, some climate of cooperation, some transfer of the burden from the conflict of civilizations to the participation of civilizations, will, of course, depend on whether the Union will be able to benefit from all these advantages from its creation in the next 50 years and whether it will be able to develop these strong potentials in some climate of cooperation, of course, an atmosphere that will spread the space of freedom and democracy and overall progress in a global sense. Of course, in all the presidencies, and it was the same for us, so that you plan some priorities in advance, you are preparing for routine procedures that are very large in Europe, eight thousand different events already say much in themselves, if we share this with six months, how much we have to do routinely during the presidency. But it is always so that new challenges are added to pre-planned priorities. In the last six months, actually, there has been an average number of these. I'm not going to talk about everyone, just the ones where we may have made some unexpected breakthroughs. One of these is the agreement to open negotiations on a new strategic agreement between the European Union and the Russian Federation. For a year and a half, this topic was open for two years, actually. The previous Presidencies have been dealing with this subject, but everyone has given up halfway. Slovenia has made further efforts to do so, and these have been very large. It was necessary to harmonise the negotiating framework between the 27 Member States with different historical experiences, as well as various practical, daily, ongoing experiences with the Russian Federation. Everyone had their ideas on what was to be negotiated and what would have to be put into this agreement. That we have finally reached agreement is the result of great efforts and very extensive coordination and communication, but this is a very important step. Much of what I have said before is that the atmosphere, which depends on the future, the quality of life of European generations and generations living in the European Union over the next 50 years, also depends on how relations with the Russian Federation will be built. Because of the fact that we came to the Hanta Mansiysk summit between the European Union and the Russian Federation with a harmonised negotiating framework, of course we were able to perform significantly differently there than the previous five, six European Union Presidencys, take steps forward and to a large extent improve the atmosphere in relations between the Union and the Russian Federation. When it comes to justice and home affairs, which represent almost 30% of the agenda of each Presidency, a number of measures have been taken to increase the security of Europeans. For us, within this area, the most important conclusion of the Schengen enlargement and, of course, the agreement on the transition to the second generation information system by autumn 2009. Both involved very much Slovenian work, in fact, before the start of the Presidency, Slovenia coordinated procedures that allowed the Schengen area to be actually expanded on 1 January this year or for air traffic in March this year. Without Slovenia's involvement, we would still go to Italy, Austria or Hungary through border crossings, as technical bases would prevent enlargement. The transformation of Europol into the Agency of the European Union is also one of the achievements of the Presidency. Equal progress in the implementation of the counter-terrorism strategy, as well as the Framework Decision on strengthening citizens' rights in the enforcement of judgments in the absence. However, if I continue briefly with the report on that part that was not planned, it was still an important part of our work and work during the European Union's leadership, it is necessary to start with the uncertainty that presupposed, for example, the December European Council before our Presidency begins on the breakdown of the situation in the Western Balkans. At the beginning of our presidency, there were also a number of reports on crises in financial markets, those already sensitive, and those that had been promised. At the start of our presidency, there was no proposal for an energy-climate package. We recorded the beginning of the cycle of rising food and oil prices and all this year before, and especially at the time when Germany and Portugal were planning a programme for the 18-month period, it was not detectable in the outline. There was no one who could have predicted in 2006 that these would also be the challenges of the Slovenian Presidency. We just had to face some of these in the process. Nevertheless, we have acted in good time with the European Commission here, especially with the European Parliament. Some measures have been taken that have not been publicly reflected, and some have not been known to have contributed to the European Union's largely timely response to these challenges of the crisis in the global financial markets, including reducing the consequences of these crises in Europe itself. The March Summit identified measures to stabilise and increase the transparency of financial markets. The signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between the financial supervisory authorities, the central banks and the financial ministers of the European Union followed in April, and at the June summit we confirmed the virtually entire package of short-term and medium-term measures to address the causes and also mitigate the consequences of increased food and oil prices. In both cases, the European Council has also sent a clear message to the citizens of the European Union that the European Union is aware of these challenges and that it also has effective tools that can sometimes influence the causes to be eliminated, and sometimes, where these levers are not available, especially at the prices of oil and energy, these levers are relatively small and the European Union has levers to alleviate everyday problems, citizens improve the quality of their lives even in such situations. At the end of the day, maybe a few more stats. All this content, which I have briefly mentioned, has in fact required 24-hour coordination of all six months. For Slovenia to carry out and conduct 8,000 different events during the Slovenian Presidency, it took a great deal of preparation earlier. From this point of view, we are not talking about six months, we are talking about the time that began in November 2004, when the National Assembly decided that Slovenia will accept this offer and, as the first new Member State, lead the European Union, which ends now that we are making a balance sheet. For these major events, which include the four peaks already mentioned. The European Union - other continents, then two European Council meetings, as well as 33 formal and 16 informal ministerial meetings - has somehow been able to prepare logistically and Slovenia has done so. However, there were also hundreds of events, meetings, coordination that could not be prepared in advance and that always required the use of reserves. At that time, cooperation with the European Parliament was also very intense. I performed alone six times six months before the European Parliament's plenary. The Ministers, who led the various Council of the European Union, took place fourteen times in plenary sessions. Secretary of State Lenarčič, who was a permanent representative of the European Parliament, participated in the 30th debates, only responding to 53 questions sent, and we agreed with ministers on some 100 such questions. At this time, we have not neglected the dialogue with the social partners. We also led a European social summit in March, namely, a dialogue with European workers' and employers' associations. All of this, if we are speaking from a logistical point of view now, was a considerable contribution which Slovenia has been able to make, despite the fact that we had extremely limited financial resources compared to others. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is fully committed to this project, from 2005 to 2008, together with the preparations, EUR 62.3 million. While the final financial report will be able to be prepared at the end of the account, all the key costs are already collected. These assessments show that the Presidency has not exceeded the financial framework outlined. Slovenia will thus probably be the first Member State to not exceed the planned resources during the Presidency. They've done all that so far. At the same time, it will be the first to spend less than €70 million on this project. So far, all the Member States of the European Union that have presided have spent more resources than Slovenia has planned and spent; in fact, more and more than 80 million, we are well below this figure. By comparison, Portugal has spent more than 100 million euros ahead of us, France, which now holds the presidency, has spent more than three times more than Slovenia for running costs, without preparation. This lower use of resources can be largely justified, or as a result of timely planning, including a rational approach, by excellent organisations, in particular the decision to try to concentrate some of the most expensive events in one place and to reduce all the logistical support they would otherwise need if they did otherwise. The rational approach also greatly justified the participation of 23 Slovenian companies, which contributed to various services or the value of around half a million euros. The rational approach has also enabled the decision to lean on the human resources that they are in the Presidency and to employ most people for a certain period of time for those needs that cannot be otherwise covered, which is significantly cheaper. And even the human resources cost, when compared with other countries that have already led the European Union, is significantly lower in Slovenia. One comparison shows that a country that now holds the presidency, which is bigger and has greater resources, but also has greater experience, has up to four times more people available to carry out the same tasks as we do. The fact that we have already decided in the beginning that the Presidency of the European Union in the direction of Slovenia will focus on content, but not on some major events that are forgotten in a few days, has proved to be correct. The evaluations made by neutral observers indicate that Slovenia has strengthened its international position by implementing this project. From our own experience, I can say that we have gained a lot of sympathy and alliances in many countries, where we have coordinated various difficult files or solutions where we have been neutral, that in some ways the European press, which is usually very unforgivable to the Presidency, has assessed the Slovenian Presidency in a large majority or practically positive way, and that those who initially expressed a scepticism towards our priorities have finally acknowledged that the priorities have been fully implemented and that this complication, which has also occurred in the ratification of the Lisbon Reform Treaty in Ireland, Slovenia is not at all at fault. We have used the Presidency as an opportunity, not only as an obligation and an obligation that awaits each Member State. All added values obtained by Slovenia through this Presidency cannot be measured in numbers. The fact is, from this experience, from this knowledge which has accumulated in thousands who have participated here and are employed in the Slovenian State Administration, in diplomacy, all those who have worked here to build on this knowledge in the future, that Slovenia knows the European Union now in detail, that it does not only know European institutions. He also knows how individual Member States breathe, he knows their problems, he knows their advantages, he knows their good practices, much of which can be passed on to our development challenge in the future. That's a very large amount of capital. In a way, even this management of all these events in many of my co-workers in the state administration, who had previously participated as one of many at these meetings, has also created some new knowledge, some new confidence, otherwise they can now, have discovered new opportunities, which, given that we were in a situation where we had to behave very neutrally, we could not take advantage of, they could take advantage now after the end of the presidency, and all these are things that could be measured and weighed only in the future. At the end of the day, let me take advantage of this last minute to thank the National Assembly. There were some very important events organised by the National Assembly during the Slovenian Presidency. These events were very noticeable, both those organised here and those organised in Brussels. In the European Parliament, the State has gained not only a lot of sympathy but also a certain reputation for someone who can be trusted with the organisation not only of a challenging event in a logistical sense, but also of a substantively demanding one. In fact, with these praises, which we have heard in presenting the results of the Slovenian Presidency in the European Parliament, we have also heard a great deal of praise at your expense, given that you were not present at the time, and I am now passing them on to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u126	Thank you, Prime Minister. The report was addressed by the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. I give the floor to the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs, Mr Anton Kokal, to explain the report of the home working body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u127	Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers and ministers, distinguished Mr President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! At its 39th urgent meeting, on 16.7. under agenda item 1, the Committee on European Union Affairs considered the Slovenian Presidency Report to the Council of the European Union from 1 January to 30 June 2008, by conclusions of the European Council of 19 and 20 June 2008. Representative of the Government, State Secretary for European Affairs Barbara Borota first presented the report on the Presidency and highlighted the five-layer organisational structure of the Slovenian Presidency. During the Slovenian Presidency, the second cycle of the Lisbon Strategy was launched with the introduction of the fifth freedom. With regard to the climate and energy package, a timetable has been adopted with fundamental principles. The decision of the June European Council attached a declaration on the Western Balkans, which is a particular achievement of the Slovenian Presidency in this area. Slovenia has also actively monitored the ratification procedures of the Treaty of Lisbon in the other Member States. She also highlighted the fact that in the year of intercultural dialogue, letters were also signed on the intention to establish a Mediterranean university based in Slovenia. The State Secretary has noted that a breakthrough has also been achieved on a number of dossiers over the years. The Secretary of State for European Affairs also highlighted the achievements of the June European Council meeting, which addressed the issue of high oil and food prices. The presidents of the countries and governments wanted to encourage more consistent monitoring of oil stocks by means of conclusions. The European Union has decided to continue to invest in the fight against poverty. A commitment was made to seek solutions in the light of the rejection referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon in Ireland. However, the Slovenian contribution is reflected in the conclusions of the meeting not only in the already mentioned statement on the Western Balkans but also in the renewed commitment to prioritise the headquarters of European agencies to the new Member States. Some ministers presented the main achievements of the Presidency in their areas below. Minister of Higher Education Science and Technology Mojca Kucler Dolinar highlighted, among other things, the establishment and establishment of the European Institute of Innovation and Technology. Health Minister Zofija Mazej Kukovic cited the introduction of cancer as a permanent political theme as an important achievement. The Minister without a Charter at the Government Development Service of Prof. Dr. Žiga Turk focused on the emphasis of creativity, which would not be possible without a Slovenian contribution to further approaches to the Lisbon strategy. Minister of Transport Mag. For a key achievement in his field, Radovan Žerjav cited the Galileo Implementation Regulation and the launch of negotiations on the transport community with the countries of the Western Balkans. Representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mag. Anita Pipan presented the foreign policy dimension of Slovenia's operations with an emphasis on the Western Balkans. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Robert Marolt, highlighted the progress made in the negotiations on the Eurojust Framework Decision and in the recognition of judgments rendered in absentia. Mag. Marko Starman, State Secretary of the Government Development Service, also stressed the Euro-regional aspect of Slovenian action during the presidency. The opinion on the report on the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union from 1 January to 30 June was presented on behalf of the Commission for International Relations and European Affairs by its President, Vincenc Otoničar. He pointed out that the report made it clear that the State Council was an equivalent co-organizer of activities at parliamentary level. At the same time, the Commission wanted to commend and congratulate all those involved in this task for their international relations and European affairs. In my debate as chairman of the Committee, I asked two questions to the Government: I wanted an evaluation of the government regarding the link between the European Union institutions and citizens. The members of the Committee were particularly interested in whether Slovenia had taken sufficient advantage of the Presidency and how successful it had been with regard to world crisis hotspots in its role as chairman. At the end of the debate, I noted that the Committee on European Union Affairs, at its 39th emergency meeting on 16 July 2008, had taken note of the Slovenian Presidency Report to the Council of the European Union on 1 January [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] by 30 June 2008, by the conclusions of the European Council of 19 and 20 June 2008. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u128	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Jožef Jerovšk, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, to present the report of his mother's working body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, Mr President of the Government, with the members of the Government, the distinguished colleague and colleagues! At its 97th urgent meeting on 16 July, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the Report on the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the EU from 1 January to 30 June 2008 by the conclusions of the European Council of 19 and 20 June. In the introduction, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, presented the report on the priorities of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the field of external matters. With regard to the Treaty of Lisbon, he said that, before the conclusion of our presidency, it had been ratified in 19 Member States of the European Union and then three other Member States ratified the Treaty after the Irish referendum. In the area of enlargement, one of the main objectives of the Slovenian Presidency was to stabilise the Western Balkans by bringing this region closer to the European Union. In doing so, during the main achievements of the Slovenian Presidency, the minister highlighted the start of negotiations with Western Balkan countries [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] facilitating and signing Stabilisation and Association Agreements with Serbia on 19 April 2008 and with Bosnia and Herzegovina on 16 June 2008. With the declaration of independence of the Republic of Kosovo on 17 February, the European Union maintained unity and reaffirmed its commitment to maintaining the stability of the region and the presence of the European Union in Kosovo. During the Slovenian Presidency, the Council of the European Union opened four negotiating chapters with Croatia and two chapters with Turkey. In the area of European Neighbourhood Policy, the Slovenian Presidency has sought [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] within a single political framework, taking account of the individual approach to each country participating in this policy. In addition, Minister Rupel said that, among other things, the Polish-Swedish initiative for the establishment of the Eastern Partnership and the initiative with the Union for the Mediterranean were presented. As part of the last initiative, one of the concrete results is also the Euro-Mediterranean University project based in Piran. In addition, the Slovenian Presidency has succeeded in deciding to join the Union for the Mediterranean in Croatia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Monaco. During the Presidency, the Slovenian Presidency sought to establish and deepen strategic partnerships within which the EU-Japan Summit, the EU-Latin American and Caribbean Summit, the EU-US Summit and the EU-Russia Summit, for which the Slovenian Presidency reached a mandate to open negotiations on a new strategic partnership agreement. In the area of development cooperation, conclusions were adopted on the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. Special attention was paid to the realization of children's rights and the situation of women in armed conflicts. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for International Relations and European Affairs was presented by State Councillor Vincenc Otonič. In the ensuing debate, Mr Jerovšek, President of the Committee, highlighted positive reactions to the Slovenian Presidency by the Presidents of the governments, the foreign ministers of the Member States of the European Union, the Commissioner of the European Commission and the ambassadors of the Member States of the European Union and other countries. At the same time, he stressed that in the field of foreign policy, the framework unity achieved by the Slovenian Presidency in declaring the Republic of Kosovo's independence is extremely important. As a result of the Presidency of the Council of Europe, Slovenia has become recognizable as a successful, reliable, well-organised country, which will have a positive impact on the tourism and economic field as well as on the greater weight of Slovenia in the international community. A member of the Committee, Maja Zupan, expressed satisfaction that the Presidency of the Council of the European Union had been carried out successfully, stressing the stabilisation of the situation in the Western Balkans and intercultural dialogue. Subsequently, when voting on the next item, this is on the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union, a member of the Committee, Jožef Školč, expressed an opinion on the need to consider the report on the Presidency and the conclusions of the European Council at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and proposed the withdrawal of this debate from the meeting of the National Assembly. The Chairman of the Committee, Jerovšek, objected to such a proposal and expressed his opinion that this was an attempt to deny and silence the successful Slovenian Presidency to the Council of the European Union before the Slovenian public. In the short discussion that followed, such a proposal was also opposed by Branko Grims and Milenko Ziherl. After the discussion, we found that the Committee on Foreign Policy in its field had taken note of the Presidency report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u130	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will move forward with the position of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. President. If you'll excuse me, on behalf of the Lip Group of Ambassadors, I'd like to say congratulations first. Congratulations to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia for their attitude, their impact on the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union. Finally, it must be said that the European Union has presided over this mandate, within these six months, the Republic of Slovenia. All that we will hear later, all that we have heard so far, is the praise of a certain political option. But if we were to be honest, even if we had won or been appointed to form the government under this mandate by Peter Klepec, Peter Klepec would be chairing the European Union as a political option. This was not done by John Janša, it did not add to the SDS, it was determined earlier. Therefore, sincere congratulations to citizens and citizens and all those who do not respect them and jump into the word of citizens and citizens is your problem and your relationship. The European Union was chaired by the Republic of Slovenia; no political party, but once again I stress, the Republic of Slovenia. As for the report itself, as we received it on the table, we can watch it or watch it in the Lipa Group of Members from two perspectives, which I think is right. First of all, this political aspect of the Presidency of the European Union is this real, life-giving aspect of the Presidency of the European Union. What really happened to people when Slovenia, once again, stressed Slovenia, not the government of Janez Janša, presided over the European Union? But if I go back to that first political thing, because here, in this room, we're just politicians. It is right that we have chaired, it is right that we have presided in the way we have chaired. It's sad that we presided to the greatest extent, at least 70%, in the way someone else conducts us. We were just presiding. I can turn the same story into this House and say that there is no member of the government coalition here on the side of the SDS, who would vote in his conscience, but as ordered. And the same was our Presidency of the European Union. If I went to the Western Balkans and to Kosovo, which you will be squeezing as a single country - you know, even if Slovenia did not preside, if Peter Klepec or any other country were to preside, Kosovo would be independent. Let's be honest and put our hands on our hearts, it wasn't our wish, it was another goal's wish. And Kosovo is today independent, no matter what anyone thinks in this hall. Ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon is the minus that could be attributed to each other as a politically-presidency country because it was not accepted. Perhaps we have done too little in Ireland to convince people, as presidents, as we would like to boast, to adopt the Treaty of Lisbon. So as long as we have the minuses, we have as many pluses at this time of our presidency. I could even make a decision and go after the ministries, what the Minister has done to make this Presidency of the European Union as recognisable as possible. But I'm only going to touch positive traits so you won't say I always do. And I'll say, the two ministers are the ones that need to be exhibited in a positive way. This is Minister Jarc and Minister Žerjav. They were the only ones who were "high", in quotations, although more or less everyone was lower than me, the representatives of the European Union also invited representatives of the European Union elsewhere than the Brda pri Kranj Gabari. Allow me - I apologize Mr Erjavec, you have been in Podčettek too, it is good that you reminded me - and Minister Erjavec, who invited them elsewhere than in the cabarets, I will say, the European Brda near Kranj, but it was also a trip. The other two ministers took the time and also presented the north-eastern part of Slovenia, where these "high" in quotations, representatives of the European Union had the opportunity not only to see the beauty and taste the beauty of North-East Slovenia, but also to see how people actually live there. For in the slums of the Brda near Kranj live all beautiful and beautiful; there also the flowers bloom after the storm, because they change daily. By talking about anything we've presented to anyone about Slovenia, it seems unrealistic, unfair, and you know it isn't. If I go to the life aspect of the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union, it is said that the real ones felt by people who wake up go to work if they do not have one, they are at home looking for a job - but there is a very different story. The Slovenian national team was not at the European championship, the bread was irritated, the milk was irritated, the electricity was irradiated, Mr Koletnik is still president of the Drava power plants. I don't know what was going on for people, for their real life, so well done by this Presidency of the European Union. Today, when I look at you here at the hall, mostly from the government coalition, I think you've heard from me on the phone this morning, and you've decided how you're going to dress. All of you have these beautiful ties with the sign of the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union, which have cost so much that the Dragan Supplement, which you have put on your back, could also introduce disabled people. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Praise you, I must say I do not have it, and if I did, I would gladly return it to the President of the Government, who seems to have escaped when he heard someone from the Lipa party or from the opposition speaking, because you spent as much money on them as it would cost to bring people with disabilities into this precious supplement. [[...]] We've spent 62 million euros, which this government is up to, that it's the least of the money that any president has. This is the reality of the presidency. Someone's gonna say, "We've done ourselves a glory." They know us. Yesterday I accompanied the Slovenian media and five of the six foreigners had no idea who Slovenia was. But I must say, between these five, three knew who Urska Bachovnik was. Not Janez Janša, Urška Báčovnik, a young lady, very "fletna", who sat next to Janez Janša on a stage. Therefore, to say that whatever this government has done for the Presidency of the European Union, for the promotion of Slovenia, is utter nonsense. I'd like to re-emphasize. Slovenia would preside over the European Union even if Peter Klepec won the elections. We didn't get the presidency because Janez Janša won. Because Janez Janša is the one who makes up the government. This has been agreed before, this is a higher power, this is a force that we, not you, have no influence. That's why messing with any kind of success is a complete nonsense. Even if I go back to politics as a politician, the result is 1:1. Kosovo was a higher power, you can attribute it to yourself, or you can attribute it to yourself as Slovenians, whether it was good or bad, people will decide later. Lisbon was that minus in Ireland, zero, zero. So the summary of all this report is to be indecisive in the political field, but in the field of life we have heard nothing has changed. Toča also burned in Slovenia, bread is more expensive, milk is more expensive, life is harder under the rule of this government. The only thing that could possibly be attributed to the government of the SDS in this country is that as bad as it was in this government will never again be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u132	Thank you. Mrs Maria Possonec has the floor, which will speak on behalf of the Group of the People's Communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all your guests and a nice greeting to your colleagues and colleagues! I would like to begin by congratulating the political leadership of Slovenia and also the people of Slovenia for the task performed. I think they've earned it. Slovenia, which, together with Germany and Portugal, prepared the Eighteen-month Presidency Programme of the Council of Europe, implemented the programme set up between January 1st and June 30th, thus successfully leading this European integration. In doing so, it has set the future of the European Union, the energy and climate package, the Lisbon strategy, the enlargement and neighbourhood policies and intercultural dialogue as a priority for its half-year presidency. This year is the European year of intercultural dialogue. During the Slovenian Presidency, she must have been most receptive to the establishment of a European-Mediterranean university in Portorož. Slovenia has developed several other initiatives and events in the area of intercultural dialogue. Unfortunately, both the Italian and Hungarian national communities and their members were slightly forgotten. The revised Lisbon Strategy has successfully entered the second three-year period by introducing the fifth freedom of this flow of knowledge. The so-called Ljubljana Process, linked to the European Research Area, has also opened the door to the European Institute of Innovation and Technology in Budapest. In the socio-working field, the Working Time and Working Conditions Directives have finally been adopted. Climate change, as the recent storms in the country have shown, is increasingly affecting us. This also requires an agreement on an energy-climate package to be adopted by the end of the year. Following recent developments, the future of the EU is at least partly linked to another priority between the Slovenian Presidency of the EU Council, the enlargement of the EU to the Western Balkans and the neighbourhood policy. By 30 June, 19 Member States had ratified the Treaty of Lisbon, but the failed referendum in Ireland had brought many uncertainties and questions into this process. As a result, some question the further enlargement of the EU, although accession negotiations with Croatia and Turkey continue. During the Slovenian Presidency, the Council of the EU was endorsed by the European perspective of the Western Balkans. A network of Stabilisation and Association Agreements has been concluded with all countries in the region other than Kosovo. The dialogue on visa liberalisation also began. I think that these events justify taking pride in looking at Slovenia, which was capable of doing all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u134	Thank you. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u135	Your Honor! Good-bye to all of you! This greeting does not apply only to the congregation in the hall. On behalf of the SDS, this greeting goes to everyone at home and abroad, who have been involved in any way in EU governance, in our historic act, when we have done everything to side with other old EU members. and I can say that at a time when we can already find that this management was the right decision and successful. Only twice in history, ladies and gentlemen, have all the lights of the world been on Slovenia for a long time. Only twice in its history, Slovenia was a major player in the world’s political chess industry. For the first time, under the sign of the red star, the tanks of the invader, which we successfully resisted, became the self - conquering war. And the second time we ran the EU. In fact, the decision to lead the EU has not been made before. It was adopted in this mandate by this Parliament, by this coalition and was by no means entirely unanimous. This decision was right twice and precious twice. It is possible to say this now with all the responsibility. Firstly, because we have achieved a fundamental objective, this is the foreign policy enforcement of Slovenia and its greater visibility. Secondly, at least such an important goal is an internal political one that we may not have been aware of at the moment we decided to do so, because we were unable to know what the conduct of individual political forces in Slovenia would be. This internal policy objective, which has been achieved, is significantly greater transparency of the system of values, decisions and actions of individual political forces in Slovenia. This is a very valuable moment, which has been reached in the past extremely rarely, especially because, as is clearly seen today, with Taiwan's total capital, not to say totalitarian, the control of most central media by parties of the so-called transitional left, led by SD, this system of values and concrete actions is extremely difficult to present to the public. Politics not only in Slovenia, in Slovenian universities, but also abroad, if you read any textbooks from Oxford or Yeal, learns that political science is always comparable. So let me draw some parallels. He first presented one of the speakers, in some way, when he started thundering, how the European Union's successful leadership was, in fact, the credit of everyone and everyone. You know, it's about as credible as the one that only a few months before the first democratic elections to gather ironsmiths in Jesenica thundered that some in Slovenia really dream of independent Slovenia, but we will never let them do this because we know that our only country of Yugoslavia was later declared the most deserving of Slovenian independence. In fact, the only parallel that can be said is that, at the time of Slovenian independence and at the time of the European Union's leadership, the same person was in a key political place: this is Prime Minister Janez Janša. This symbolism is really great in this. On the other hand, the matter is quite different, ladies and gentlemen. Let me argue that, too. Why I pointed out that it was at least as important as the implementation of Slovenia abroad as the basic political objective, the second achievement, this is the disclosure of the system of values and actions. Because it is necessary to remember what was still going on here after the decision to lead the European Union. Preparations were made, large-scale preparations involving both the Government and Parliament, and this is often forgotten, with their professional services, involving more than 100 people in the initial phase, later even thousands at home and abroad. All of this is truly a heartfelt thanks for the success of this act. Politically, this was done by the current coalition. The thanks for this, ladies and gentlemen, which are attached to each other today after a long and continuous period of time, I would like to remind you that they have been identified at that last meeting, a great extraordinary session before the start of the European Union's leadership, when Mr President of the Government has tied his trust to the issue of the European Union's leadership. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, the entire opposition has unwittingly rejected the proposed hand. This, I say, has left the coalition to accept all responsibility, and it has also accepted it, to lead the European Union and it remains solely and solely responsible for those acts which were linked to their political circle during the preparation and even during the European Union's own leadership. There's no telling what's going on. I would even point out that even in Parliament itself, from the circles around the opposition, there have been statements that Slovenia should just leave its leadership to the first, i.e. France. In the light of the present day, it's probably something that doesn't quite deserve any comment. While the whole Government, the whole Parliament and many other individuals in the various services have been fully engaged in the preparation of the European Union's leadership and have in some way successfully crowned it with entry into the Schengen, which was not a direct part of the European Union's leadership, it is extremely strategically important that we have entered the area as a Slovenian nation, when we are finally together with the Slovenians all in a single political space, one international community, without separating us from the physical borders. The historicity of this event, which was by no means as self-evident as it was once again trying to say, and for the success of its entry into the Schengen already have great merit in our diplomacy and, in particular, the Minister of the Interior, Mr Mate, together with some colleagues and ministers. The history of this event will be evident only after a long time. I was able to see this for myself when visiting Slovenians in Italy, in the Terski valleys, when they said that now the biggest opponents of Slovenia after the entry into Schengen, after Slovenia took over the leadership of the European Union, are suddenly still quiet. That's something that means a lot, a lot. And if we go back in time for these preparations. While some of them were fully engaged in preparations for the leadership of the European Union, others were also fully engaged. And they went abroad to the untruths about how in Slovenia those who were transferred from one registry, a permanent residence register, into a register of foreigners without permanent residence, suffer horribly, how there were 18 thousand so-called deleted here and how there was an immeasurable injustice and we had to give different explanations. During this time, even the same autumn before the presidency organized their trip to Brussels, which ended in great disrepute, because there were submitted Slovenian passports and then no one was willing to accept them, because abroad the term "earsed" means someone who has no status, but at least at least the passport of the country from which it comes, and it is a huge manipulation. Well, this explanation took a lot of energy, especially because it was combined with the untruths, not to tell lies, about how to mass lock the Roma in some concentration camps in Slovenia. This was answered by the President of the Government even at some of the biggest meetings, such as in Riga. I myself had to explain this in person at some of the international meetings connected with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and a similar non-truth, the one that has actually done the most political damage and has also been deliberately launched even twice, the last time on the eve of the European Union's leadership, about how this government and this coalition would tremendously censor all Slovenian media. After we have drawn up material evidence at the so-called anti-Taikun meeting, and even this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you, has adopted a decision defining that in Slovenia the freedom of the public word threatens only and the only concentration of non-transparent capital on any "kaselc firm", according to the domestic statement, it is clear that all of this was completely unrealistic. But it threw a very big stain on Slovenia, in time before its presidency. And I would like to recall that in that disputed petition, which has been so mistreated by a valuable institute of journalistic solidarity, it has even been said that this country is unfit for the leadership of the European Union. This country. But the country is all of us, ladies and gentlemen, including the mother of the one who wrote this, and let us talk to her about what injustice he has done to her. But this has also not been completed with the start of the European Union's leadership. All the time, it has been trying to muck our homeland abroad, to throw one part of this mud at the government, and especially at its president. It was either a red thread or not just a "shagger of the season" leading the European Union. It reflected in various ways not only the three I have already counted, i.e. the so-called deleted, non-reality related to the Roma, who later declared Slovenia the most friendly country in their congress. Of course, that's not what we were talking about. And related to so-called censorship. But also later, because I would like to remind you that at the beginning of the European Union's leadership, there has been an event that raises questions about certain professional standards and also some fundamental ethical issues, the values on which our country is founded. Look. It was published, at the same time in Politics and in Dnevnik in Slovenia, a document from the foreign ministry. One of the dispatches that just wrote the wishes of the United States of America related to our leadership. Instead of correctly writing down that this is in some way also a recognition of our leadership, because, if they were not important, no one would tell them at all, but it was attributed to the unimaginable dimensions, how this is a chronic proof that the whole of Slovenia is merely a laity of some world power, how we have no policy, no courage, what bombastic words have fallen in this House as well. And what really caused this? In fact, it has caused this inflatability of the importance of this document that even the threat of Slovenian property, Slovenian property and even Slovenian people in one of the republics of the former Yugoslavia, in particular in Serbia, has occurred. And then when that happened, they all put their heads between their shoulders like normal, and "weaked." Slovenia, however, was able to save the European Union as President-in-Office, which could be resolved. What a national disgrace for those who, for the first time, violated professional ethics and provided this document and, secondly, what a shame for those who published it and then commented in the first place in the way I described it. And once again, the announcement of this event was made on the Serbian websites of the official Serbian government. What dimensions this has and to whom it is in the best interest, who also works in Slovenia, I leave your judgment. But it wasn't over here either. In the same context, I would personally give another story related again to the same political forces. You all know that, at this point, Slovenia is still under the threat of an extremely serious lawsuit because SD Member Cvikl, the newly composed national hero of Pahorjheva SD, abused the institution of the National Assembly and allowed the European Union's Presidency to peer into Patrie's confidential documents to a competing firm. It can happen, this danger has not yet passed that Slovenia will be the subject of a multi-hundred-million-dollar lawsuit in euros. The Nate Towers are talking about a 800-million-dollar lawsuit. Are you aware that this man has not only grossly violated the trust of citizens and citizens he has as a Member but has also grossly abused the reputation of the National Assembly, this institution of the State, while jeopardising the well-being of Slovenian citizens and citizens? Where do you think we're gonna get this money if we have to pay this compensation? Do you think he'll pay him or his SD out of his pocket? Yeah, yeah. All taxpayers will pay for this and there will be no new hospitals, there will be no new schools and everything else that we can provide to Slovenian citizens and citizens on the basis of what we have achieved. In fact, this was the red thread of the opposition's action in Slovenia at the time of EU leadership, which, by the way, in the media, which are this political group, the transitional opposition, and if we say so to SD, Really or LDS, can be distributed among themselves, who is more in control of it, I do not want to judge it, close, that is, this Presidency has been said very little in the media. However, if it has been reported, it has been reported in an isolated way, there at the edge, as if it were an insignificant event, but not something that we might experience at best again in a few decades' time, but very likely at the time of the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty never again, for in this case Slovenia will never lead the EU alone, and so it was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity before history. And in all countries, ladies and gentlemen, with a long-standing democratic tradition, if you take neighbouring Italy, Germany, the United States, Great Britain or any other, you will see that when it comes to such decisive things, for once opportunities, then all relevant political forces will come together. Here the situation was completely opposite, as I have already said, and it reflects the system of values of both. The system of values of those in the coalition with the SDS that I belong to, at the head of which we have tried to build the reputation of Slovenia abroad and to successfully lead the EU, and others who have been in power to water an immeasurable amount of manure across our country abroad because they have relied on certain political effects of this doing at home. This value difference, this obvious difference in actions, is something that will remain forever for the history of this leadership. By the way, with regard to reporting on EU governance, only for comparison. When it came to the Council's first meeting under the leadership of Slovenian Prime Minister Janez Janša, the main news was that some prosecutor who had been in that place for another month had probably resigned, but went to a better paid job, but the affair was good. More than once, stories of how suddenly everyone feels so much needed to strike have been used. Some of this was even true. And it would be interesting to ask whether they were strikes because Slovenia was leading the EU, or just because the elections were coming, or because of both. This cannot be ruled out scientifically either. It is interesting, however, if I stop at the so-called silent strike of the courts that they began to strike at the time of EU leadership. At that time, I would remind you that it was a several-day forecast strike, when you all know that the EU reminds us that backlogs in Slovenian justice represent one of the biggest problems for the rule of law in Slovenia and we are taxpayers on this account, so all of us, together, have already paid a considerable amount of compensation from our pockets to many who were unable to exercise their constitutional rights to a trial within a reasonable time, or to a judgment or justice in a court in Slovenia, and have just judged the institutions of the European Union and Slovenia. We've settled the bill for taxpayers. And these people, who are personally responsible for this, because the judges are personally responsible for this, went to strike at the time of our leadership of the European Union. Well, great. How coordinated this has now been, how politically motivated it has been - it is likely that everyone will be able to judge for himself. However, the fact remains that the Slovenian governance programme has been implemented for the European Union. And he was real despite all the things I've just said. And he was real good, ladies and gentlemen. This is only what sheds light on our leadership of the European Union in the right light. Despite all this, although it was not only metal that the Slovenian government was being hunted under its feet, it was a real Balkan boulder revolution at the time of the European Union's leadership, we have done our job well. Let us look at this from the point of view of the fundamental emphasis we have had. The first was the question of the Treaty of Lisbon. During our leadership, the Treaty of Lisbon was signed. It's an indelible record for history. Of course, we don't own it ourselves, it's been in preparation for a really long time, but the point on i added to our own leadership. The story of rejection in the Irish referendum is in fact much less important than it seems at the moment. Ratification, unlike similar past stories, is continuing and progressing successfully. And it is highly likely that in time there will also be a change of decision with the Irish, and this will solve the issue which Slovenia has also given special attention to. She has undoubtedly done her job in this work. The second is the issue of energy-climate issues. This is something of strategic importance, and we may not even be aware of it many times. Part of this was done by the National Assembly. I would like to remind you that we have also identified this as one of the priority themes for the meeting of European Parliaments in the National Assembly. It is a question of how to avoid black scenarios, on the one hand a lack of energy, but on the other hand a warm beam and a related rise in sea level and various interests. In this case, I would like to point out that at a meeting devoted to this issue by Slovenian diplomacy, Slovenia has been extremely successful in its intervention. Since we have been able to see in all European media, some of the biggest ones who, by the way, have reported more on the Slovenian leadership of the European Union than our own, which is a very interesting "what", I think we are truly unique in the world after that. For example, the BBC or CNN have pointed out that good intervention by our government and our diplomacy have been. This is certainly a special recognition. Similarly, the question of the Lisbon Strategy, the question of science as the fifth quality, is a question of the Lisbon Strategy. As the fifth open option, we have defined the free movement of knowledge as the fifth freedom of the European Union. And that's something that's going to be left for history. The Western Balkans is a story we all know well. And unfortunately, there's an inseparable connection to that national disgrace that I talked about a little while ago. But the independence of the new country, namely Kosovo, despite the fact that there is still a strong Serb minority in addition to the Albanians, and this has been associated with many problems, has been very good during Slovenian governance. Here, too, our diplomacy has played an appropriate role and our leadership. And last but not least, intercultural dialogue. The importance of intercultural dialogue is greater than it seems at first glance, as intercultural dialogue is, as it is then, in the short and medium term, giving more security than anything else, probably intercultural dialogue is the only solution that solves conflict problems and ensures global peace and development and sustainable development in the long term. Our government has also devoted great attention to this issue. He also paid special attention to this issue to this Parliament. We have held a meeting for which, like the Government, for most of everything it has done, we have also received numerous recognitions abroad, and we have pointed out many of the points that have so far remained on the side of this area, particularly at this moment, that intercultural dialogue is not something that is going on in a one-way manner, but can not only adapt the European Union to new arrivals, but it is a bilateral process. This calls for a sincere acceptance of an interlocutor who must be on both sides. This is often forgotten, and this will become more and more topical when it comes to issues related to different cultures. There was very little reporting in this case, too. Fortunately, however, based on the new law, national television provided at least direct transmissions, which had time here, could have opened the window to see things real without different interventions. However, with this removal of these stories related to our leadership during the European Union's time on the side of, in some, not all, Slovenian media, I would like to recall the words of the President of the country who said: "We must strive to strengthen the value of patriotism among young people." Yes, how can we strengthen the value of patriotism among young people if some of the political forces in Slovenia, as I have described, do everything they can to drive their own country into the mud at such an important time as EU leadership, just to forge their own short-term political gains out of this? Here you can see this value difference. Some of us were willing even to give up the start of the electoral campaign, which the other led vehemently in our time of EU leadership, even though they had announced otherwise because we wanted to direct all the forces to EU leadership, to strengthen our country's reputation abroad, while others were drawn in a completely opposite direction. This is the value difference that is to be kept in memory. And to the end. Something's always forgotten. There are quite a few countries where, at the time of EU leadership, the government of these countries has still successfully led the EU and has forgotten its own country. For this reason, it could be valid at the moment when we are doing an analysis when we draw the line below the entire event, to see how it was with the management of Slovenia during this period, whether it was appropriate to lead it during the preparation and, of course, the management itself, or not. And here the answer is very simple. The figures available last are officially for 2007 and are also verified by international institutions. Some of the first, including by UMAR, are also for this period of EU leadership, i.e. for the first half of 2008. And what does it show? Not only have we successfully led the EU, we have also been very successful in leading Slovenia. During the central preparations for EU governance, we achieved more than 6% of development annually. And since I said that polytology is comparable, there is also a comparison with the last comparable year, this was the Robbery Government in 2003, when development at the annual level was only good 2%, that is, more than half the lower. But if I took the shortest period for which there was official information, it was even 7.2% and the column would be up here somewhere. For those of you who are laughing there, I would remind you that if you took the shortest period of Robb's government, which is after this failure, read, because it was no success whatsoever, it would be 2.3% and the difference would be 1:3. She's so good at 1:2. At the same time, I cannot help but point out that someone knows this comparison, which is also officially verified by European institutions, while some perform with passwords: Slovenia can lead better than, say, Mr Rob, as the new SD star, you can truly smile at it if you know the facts. But the second is because then it usually jumps, what it was like to have inflation now. You know, then it's also necessary. Politology is comparable. One point means nothing. But it means something if you compare it. And look what happens. If you take information on official maximum inflation recorded in each mandate. What does it turn out to be? In fact, the highest inflation in this mandate is a third lower than inflation in the previous term. This is what I am talking about now, the highest inflation recorded in the mandate. In the previous one, it was about 10%, in that close to 7%. Well, even more so, this picture becomes fun when we take the average inflation throughout the mandate, which removes different fluctuations. And what does it show? That inflation in this mandate is on average about half lower than in the previous and approximately 3 times lower in the previous term, when those who criticise us today have already been in power. It is only possible in Slovenia that no one has made public this moment. For this is the most normal thing in the world to compare, of course, when publishing data, also show up on a graph or something. Why wasn't that in Slovenia? Whether it's any influence or not, I'll leave you to your judgment. But the inexcusable fact is that, with the very successful leadership of the European Union, which is recognised by all of us, the Slovenian government has also run Slovenia extremely well. And in this period, ladies and gentlemen, it has achieved far the highest economic growth in the history of Slovenia, while it has also achieved much, much better results in limiting inflation than any government that has so far. This information is truly interesting in the light of the usual statements and the start of the circus that we have witnessed in these days. Allow only one more thought for the end. If I sum it up, for the successful management of Slovenia and for the successful management of the European Union, we can give everyone a great, great recognition or, as we say, the Gorenjci like to say - "klobuk dol".
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk alone has a procedural question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. A well-respected choir. I made a procedural request when the President of the National Assembly of France Tsukati chaired the meeting, and I also repeated it during the work of your leadership. I would like to point out that this was a pure abuse of the Institute of Presentation of the position of the Group of Members in the National Assembly. Most of this debate does not touch the content of this item on the agenda at all. Therefore, the President should warn his fellow Member that he does not adhere to the agenda and, in the event that he does not heed that warning, he should also take the word away from him. In addition, a fellow Member has also disputed with other Members, specifically from our Group of Members. This was not allowed during the presentation of the Group's position, and there were also no colleagues here to respond to the views expressed in the debate. I would therefore appeal, in particular to the President of the National Assembly, to respect and comply with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in such cases alert the Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Scholch, procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u139	Mr Vice-President, I propose that the meeting be suspended so that all those ministers and the President of the Government who have previously interrupted our work will arrive. You will remember that we objected. I understand that both the ministers and the Prime Minister of the Government have fled from Mr Grimes' performance. But now he's finished, you've interrupted the meeting earlier so those ministers can participate in this session. Now they're gone, and I think it's kind of like some kind of mockery from the National Assembly. I think it would be right if we stopped them all from sitting here right now. Please make sure of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I will respond to both proposals. First of all, Mr. Sam Bevek. I listened to everything that was said in the last part, and that's all I'd tell you. I will indeed stick to what is the presentation of the parliamentary positions of the groups and also to the debate on what the debate should be. The debate is on the agenda item that I will now read to you again: the report on the Presidency of Slovenia in the Council of the European Union from 1 January to 30 June 2008, the conclusions of the European Council of 19 and 20 June 2008. I let myself remind you of that. And it would be good if we listened to the Prime Minister's introductory report in order to stick to this topic and to discuss it in this regard. What you said, Mr. Skull, I'd say. As President alone, I cannot influence who from the Government will be present at this meeting. Everyone was invited to my list. Therefore, I can only influence Members to tell them that those who are not in the Chamber can come to the Chamber. That's my answer. We're moving on. Mr Bevk alone has the floor to present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The presidency of the 27-nation communities and nearly half a billion people are not coughing. This is already a logistically large provision, so it must be said that the previous government had a great deal of courage and confidence that it proposed the Slovenian Presidency to the Council of the European Union, which was then put into practice by the current government in view of the results of the national elections. We had the honour of being the first country in the round of major enlargement in 2004 and also the first Slovenian country in history to preside over the Council of the European Union. The Slovenian Presidency received praise and recognition within the European Union. In general, the management of the Council of the European Union can be assessed as being properly carried out. What specific substantive achievements for Slovenia, however, could not be expected by real policy. There were no negative opinions about the work of the Slovenian Presidency in the public, so we also join the Social Democrats in assessing that we have done a good job. Expectations regarding the substantive part of the Presidency were appropriate to the reputation and size of the country by the European public. It is difficult to cope with the greatest challenges of the European Union, which are not even part of the most influential countries if you are chairing a troika with two superpowers. As regards South-Eastern Europe or the Balkans, the signing of Stabilisation and Association Agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia should be mentioned as a positive achievement. The only thing that could be done better would be to seek greater agreement from the European Union on the announcement of Kosovo's independence and more frequent contacts by the Head of the Presidency of the European Union with the leaders of the Member States of the European Union at the time of the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon. Ireland's rejection of the referendum treaty has in fact cast a bad light on the Slovenian Presidency and several other countries have announced that the Lisbon Treaty will not be signed. Although we have learned in recent days from the media that French President Sarkozy has managed to convince her that Poland and the Czech Republic will no longer oppose her in less than one month. In a short time, Sarkozy will travel personally to Ireland. Slovenia has proved to be a good host. Also in culinary terms, many guests will have a beautiful memory. Organisational technicalally, events were prepared and carried out without complications, with praise to this account no one copied. As an interesting subject, I will mention a few more statistics. More than 8 thousand events were organised during the Presidency. More than 3 000 people were involved in this work, of which 2,720 Slovenian civil servants. Over 27,000 delegates participated in 166 official meetings of the Presidency in Slovenia. The events in Slovenia were accompanied by 1,583 domestic and 928 foreign journalists. Only 32,000 lunches, dinners and lunches were served on the Hill. With 160 cars, they drove more than a million kilometres and consumed 10.1 million litres of fuel. Thirty thousand ties and routes were distributed with the symbol of the Presidency. 260 cultural and promotional events were held at home and around the world. It is estimated that the most resilient concert of Slovenian Philharmonic was held on the eve of the Spring European Council in Brussels. Although we have not yet received the final budget of the Presidency, the costs will remain within the envisaged framework, which is just over €62 million. In comparison, this amount is equivalent to one third of the total budget of the Ministry of Culture in 2008 or to a good 77 per cent of the funds provided for in the budget of the cultural euro law for the period 2009 to 2013. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union was correct and within the framework of expectations. However, for real comparisons, there will be a time when the other countries in the 2004 round will also complete their presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Council of Ministers! What about the presidency? We had and have written a good reminder in which to present the positive achievements of this mandate. The mission of the opposition would also be to cover something up. But when I listened earlier to the position of the largest coalition party, how much anger, how much negativity, how much criticism, I think criticism by the opposition is simply not appropriate, is not necessary. Slovenia did the presidency right, we were not partners, but we did not spit, we did not criticize our beautiful country in which people are trying. Each one of us has tried to present the world as it is. I should like to thank all the Slovenians and Slovenians who have made this Presidency financially possible. But what do people think about these speakers in extraordinary sessions, and of course they will say in autumn. The rationally reasoned debate obviously ran out of time, of course, of will and energy, for the EPPs, of course, and of course more than enough time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u145	Nice greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues once again! Although the content of the report and the conclusions of the European Council were presented directly through the media when the Ministers and the President of the Government reported to the European Parliament from the outset and prepared their press conferences, it was interesting to hear from yesterday's European Union Affairs Committee first-hand those who led the event live on the European parquet floor. If we look at the report from the point of view of the Presidency programme presented in the National Assembly before the start, we can see that in the context of the substantive realization itself in some areas the results are better than expected. Results are expected in some areas. Again, due to the required consensus or complex decision-making in the European Union, the results are not entirely in line with the planned results. In decision-making processes in the institutions of the European Union, the most unpredictable element is definitely the timeline. Nevertheless, we note that we have achieved more in the field of research, knowledge and innovation than has been recorded in the Presidency itself. In addition to the expected results, I would point out the introduction of the so-called fifth freedom, which means the free way of knowledge, the establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University, established in the Republic of Slovenia, the decision on the seat of the European Institute of Technology, the establishment of a Ljubljana process that ensures mobility, cooperation and joint programming of researchers within the framework of a single research space. I would also like to point out the adoption of a decision on family-friendly scientific careers. However, in the area of employment and social policy, I point out two achievements that have been impossible to predict in advance: an agreement on the Working Time Directive that has been negotiated since 2004 and an agreement on the Temporary Workers Directive, which has been negotiated since 2002. He would also highlight a successful conference on demography or intergenerational solidarity. In the area of freedom of security and justice, the added value of the Presidency was mainly in the area of the general approach reached to the framework decision on the enforcement of judgments rendered in absentia, the adoption of an agreement on a proposal for a directive on criminal law protection of the environment, the general approach reached to issues relating to a decision on strengthening the euro area, the adoption of a directive on certain aspects of mediation on civil and commercial matters, and the conclusion of the E-Justice portal. The Bureau was able to harmonise the Futura document on the basis of which the European Commission will draw up a legislative programme for the period 2009-2013 for the field of justice. In the area of finance, there is considerable progress in addressing the key framework directive on insurance and reinsurance, so-called Solvency Directive 2. In the area of taxation, the Council of the European Union approved a legislative package on value added tax and legislation regarding specific taxes on capital collection. In the area of consumer protection, the Slovenian Presidency was able to reach an agreement on the Consumer Credit Contracts Directive. In the spirit of ratifying the procedures of the Treaty of Lisbon, which further opens the European Union to citizens, a little more synergy between the Government and the National Assembly was expected in the implementation of well-prepared conferences at the non-ministerial level. It has also slightly decreased the time frame for sending the content under consideration to the National Assembly and has emerged to deal with the last-minute European Union case again. We hope that this will now go back to normal rhythm and improve further, which would make a good journey for even better cooperation in the next mandate. In addition to this, we can say that the technical, logistical and presentational Presidency, according to the report, has also been excellent. This can also be said for the part of the Presidency that took place in the National Assembly. We sincerely congratulate the government and colleagues in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u146	Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. All in attendance, all in attendance! The Presidency of the Member States has already introduced a Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, the so-called 1957 Treaty of Rome, which has provided for Member States to alternately assume the role of President of the Council of the EU for six months. It is an honour to have presided over the Council of the EU as the first Member State to expand 2004 and, in general, as the first Slovenian country. The Presidency was a great recognition for Slovenia's work so far, but, of course, a great responsibility. We are convinced that Slovenia has successfully carried out the Presidency and has thus made a good impression on everyone who has visited our country or anyone who has acted under our presidency. The social networks established by Slovenia will make it easier and, above all, make Slovenia more effective than EU members. We believe that everyone who has participated in the preparation and implementation of the Presidency has gained much knowledge and experience. The level of recognition of Slovenia has risen considerably, and Slovenia's reputation has increased, and thus the possibilities or opportunities for the Slovenian economy. The Slovenian Presidency highlighted the five main themes: the future of the Union, energy and climate issues, the Lisbon Strategy, the Western Balkans and intercultural dialogue. During our presidency, a second three-year period of the renewed Lisbon Strategy was successfully launched between 2008 and 2010. The fifth freedom was introduced, that is the free movement of knowledge. A step has been taken to address climate and energy issues. The biggest success in the field of energy during the presidency is the agreement on the third legislative package for the liberalisation of the internal market for electricity and natural gas. Under the Slovenian Presidency, the EU Council reaffirmed the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries. In addition, in cooperation with European institutions, religious leaders and civil society representatives, an incentive was given to dialogue between cultures, beliefs and the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue. Slovenia has also contributed specifically to longer-term intercultural integration, by establishing the Euro-Mediterranean University, based in Piran. In the parliamentary group, we commend all those who participated in the preparation and implementation of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the EU and thus ensure that Slovenia has made a good impression and has done its job successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u149	Dearly dilute representatives of the government and colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that the Presidency of Slovenia was no natural accident, that we must discuss this at an extraordinary meeting. It's true that extraordinary sessions are in your blood, but we've known this for some time now, and I don't think it's justified to talk about this today. It is understandable, however, that the Government wishes to commend itself in this project for the fact that it also wishes and wishes to commend the non-EU-related part of the ruling, as we have heard in the presentation of the largest parliamentary group. But as I say, a natural disaster has happened recently in Slovenia, and we can talk about it in extraordinary sessions, not in internal political accounts, as has been done today. Let me begin by saying that I agree that we agree with the assessment made at the outset by the President of the Government today that the Presidency is an important experience capital for Slovenia. This is true and what we want and hope and, in fact, we know that this will also happen, that this capital will be positively cashed not only after the human resources, but also after, more simply, if I say, the recognition that Slovenia has acquired in this last half of the year and that it will also strengthen it in the future. The former President of the State, Dr Janez Drnovšek, said before the presidency, if I recall correctly, in an interview that it is not appropriate to have a nervousness before the presidency, since it is a matter of more or less technical work, where most things are already covered and agreed. True, that's true, but also technical work for such a required project is not from flies. And in this place it is appropriate to boast, or at least to look today, if we already have this opportunity, an extraordinary opportunity, including all those who today do not collect cream from this table and have worked hard and acted in the background that we have done this presidency without major errors, as I say, or certain, but that some key setbacks and unsuccessful steps have not been detected. Whether technically or otherwise, we can only say that Slovenia has done well with the Presidency, but it is also true that there is virtually no failure of the European Presidency and that sometimes there is a need to distinguish between polite, diplomatic expressions of affection and those of a more analytical type. Well, I can't let you slip around the Washington dispatch. The contribution of Slovenia has indeed been limited, useful and, in this sense, also those observations that have been made or marked even in domestic criticisms, that we have been a leading or cautious Presidency, can partly hold, but I stress that it is necessary to keep an eye on the fact that the Presidency arrangements are still standing, and the key agenda has already been set out much earlier. It is true, however, that bends can happen, for example, that I think the French President has included in the agenda something that this agenda did not contain at all, let's say a clear open and well-established issue about the deployments of public RTV services, something that was not in the plan. But as he is, he has allowed it, while we did not allow ourselves six months ago, remember the intense desires, and I do not only speak political desires on the part of parliamentarians and parliamentarians, but also of others. In the European Parliament, a petition was made first with the 50s, then with more signatures from European Members and Members, to open this issue at least in the context of a particular conference or a more in-depth reflection due to the key problems that exist in the European Union's relation to the Roma population. And what happened? As usual, the Prime Minister of the Government said, yes, this is not an invention that would be recalled or suggested in the European Parliament, but what is in the Slovenian Parliament, and it is not a question of Roma in the European Union, but we know that there are more than 10 million, and they are still victims of racism, intolerance and discrimination. And in the year of intercultural dialogue, this topic is more than relevant, it did not come to the agenda or came conditionally, when the People's Party in the European Parliament also stood up for this and because the coalition is part of the People's Party, it could not say no, but there was some compromise within a smaller session in Brussels. The same has also happened with the initiative to devote a little more time and in-depth discussions on the issues of limiting freedom of speech. This was also rejected, but it was remedied with instant maps in front of hotel rooms of foreign journalists. The question of the media, which was wanted, raised and, at that time, even in the international European space, raised through the petition, did not get room within this Presidency. Let us also ask if I mention some of the modest contacts I had with other parliamentarians as a parliamentarywoman, such as the representatives of the French delegation of parliamentarians from France who were here to visit, were surprised, but I am talking about personal arrangements rather than some of the agreements adopted, how Slovenia did not respond more energeticly to the problem of Tibet, especially because it did not refuse to participate in the opening ceremony in the Olympic Games, if you do, because human rights are high on the list of priorities in your country. But that's what happened. Perhaps the question of Darfur, which the former President, late President Janez Drnovšek had actually launched into the world and only then did others take seriously, could not be exploited to the extent that many would like it to be. It is often heard that, if I continue, this general assessment that after the presidency no one will take us for the Slovaks anymore. That's right. The Presidency has made us more recognizable in the world, and this is important, despite the fact that we had a desperate logo with which most of us disagreed, and also cultural events that were not broad-minded or ambitious, but were traditionally set up somewhere too much as some think. In fact, it may also apply here to those who believe that this Presidency has been happening too much within the ghetto, within the framework of the Hill, within one location which, as we know in the past, when it skipped obstacles to the hidden, Tito was able to escape. However, in the field of visibility, emphasis should be placed on the content earlier. Some think - I will not say that we are fully joining in Really - but some think that if once again such an opportunity were to be, we know that it will not be on such a project for at least 15 years, and others will, it would be more appropriate to take advantage of the pear effect or the possibilities where good decisions are promoted. And here were some good ones. If I speak for those successes on the dossiers that have been discussed on the Working Time Directive, on the Galileo satellite navigation, on negotiations with Russia, on the liberalisation of the energy market, on the fifth freedom and possibly also on intercultural dialogue, even though it has not gone into all the times that it could have enjoyed. Maybe she was even more receptive to the establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University. But this is in some ways understandable, for it is a concrete, tangible and quick-to-real project or project that has been implemented quite quickly. In this context, the Presidency can be seen as a lost opportunity. Perhaps it is worth looking for some lost opportunity in those options, perhaps not the most already-altered agreement, but those arrangements where the Presidency could also have more impact on bilateral issues, such as issues of involvement and thinking and the involvement of certain identities in the European Union. Here is also the question why Slovenia did not hit the table on this occasion and said: "The end is by this slow negotiation or by not negotiating the return of stolen and withdrawn or taken images from Slovenia's Istria to Italy and so on. But I'm not saying that Slovenian space is very much identified by this presidency. For Slovenian citizens and citizens, it may still be that the European Union understands too far away from being an object that we are not yet part of, that we are shaping and so on. But sometimes we set bad examples ourselves. We set a very bad example ourselves in the National Assembly when we ratified the Treaty of Lisbon in the most limited possible dialogue in the National Assembly. In fact, there was no dialogue because it was a very quick, short treatment which had the same status as any other international convention or treaty. Contracts, so to speak, without discussion, quickly and in one brief swing. What might be considered to be part of a delayed or not sufficiently accomplished matter within our leadership is the lack of a more strategic approach to the visa issue in Kosovo. In fact, we have always, and, if only possible, also made it clear that recognition is always understood within the framework of the conditions laid down in the basic instruments which must be accepted. Kosovo, we know that it has now recognised as many as a dozen countries, 40, which is significantly insufficient for its integration into international institutions. The deployment of European Union missions in northern Kosovo is late, and the status has not been adjusted in short. Somehow everyone expected that those of us who are particularly experts in the countries of the former Yugoslavia were right in Slovenia, and I think we were expected to do more than we did here. Also on other issues, issues of Macedonia, Croatia and so on, we may not have shown enough or encouraged the necessary dialogue. I am also talking about the serious issues of Macedonia in the light of the fact that it would be more reasonable to encourage a clear and concrete dialogue, and that the question of Croatia should be understood that there have been some rather unpleasant circumstances which have denied this confidence in an encouraging mutual agreement that should continue to take place, exactly as a threat, if I may say, by a referendum that would allow Croatia's entry into the European Union. It is difficult for the Slovenian State to distinguish between formal praises, which are part of the diplomatic language, as I have already said, between courtesy cards, which are standard rituals, and also between real assessments, which also observe shortcomings. That is why I can say that the first Presidency of the European Union has been exemplaryly organised; it has passed, as it is said, without major mistakes, but it has not been overly creative. That's still the most realistic assessment. And this creativity has certainly been the most lacking in relation to countries in the Balkans, when some things were happening more than the natural course of events in which Slovenia was found. I am talking about Serbia's agreement with the European Union, which has also been a prize for democratic elections, and where there were no conditions for the elimination of war criminals without a political crisis in Kosovo, this kind of communication would probably not have happened, or if I were talking about the agreement with Bosnia that followed. The situation in the Balkans was expected to be that Slovenia, as a'specialist', if I say in the notes that it would be more strategic and that Slovenia might expect our guidance to be more than its direction for the future. As has already been said, a clear example of this is Macedonia and perhaps Croatia, where there should be a deepening of relations and a building of greater trust not only at the political level but also between citizens of one country and another. Let me also say that the issue of intercultural dialogue could be a good incentive, especially a significant school for the Minister himself, who repeatedly forgets about cultural dialogue, or constantly. But if I avoid this narrative, I should only point out that there should also be a significant school for future negotiation, because there was not only intercultural dialogue at the forefront in the sense of the word, as we have accepted and supported it here, but also in the context of concrete projects, which in particular in the field of culture, went in the direction of stimulating audiovisual activities, the protection of the internet, especially for children, space, and in particular for the promotion of art or artistic content, creative content within online communication media. And if we say something in Europe, then we have to say it at home. But it is not only financial support, but also moral support, to deny to those responsible for these activities at home. If we are talking in Europe about how it is okay that art is also happening within the online media, then the Writers' Society's websites, which have been rejected for financial support or Art Service, which is the key mediator and creator's assistant in this area, must receive support. But let me also point out in the intercultural dialogue that I am sorry, or in the cultural monologue, that we regret that, at the very beginning, when it was decided on which scenario will be established in Slovenia for cultural accompanying activities, those who should also record and accompany our Presidency at protocol, cultural level, that the Ministry of Culture or the then Office for [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] information decisions for a more conservative rather than a modern way presented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the Helena Drnovšek project. This spoke of us being a modern, modern country, while this traditional one was more conservative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u150	Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Slovenia completed an important project on 30 June 2008 which is the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The management of all international projects is a challenging task for each country, and in particular the management of the 27-member European integration is a major challenge for a small short-stock country, for Slovenia, which is one of the most recent accessions, so we can safely attach it today, well cut off. The Presidency programme, or all the objectives of our Presidency's priorities, have been successfully realized and our successor can continue with a good journey. The future of Europe and the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty are still ongoing despite the negative response of the Irish population, as Europe is awaiting a debate on constructive ways of looking for content that, as has been shown, is not acceptable to all. However, we can gladly mark more than half the ratification support to the Treaty for our success. The consideration of the energy-climate package has required work on matters that mean a lot for the quality of life of Europeans in the future. Europe is vulnerable in this area due to the import of foreign energy and its aim is to achieve more reliable, sustainable and competitive energy supply. In this area, too, we can note with satisfaction that the task of Slovenian Presidency is in the light of environmental concerns, by continuing its efforts to establish an environmentally friendly treatment in terms of promoting a co-natural way of production and everyday life, and by establishing greater energy independence and efficiency more than successfully done. Much attention has also been paid to the implementation of the Lisbon strategy in the field of employment policy, which, while it is indeed necessary to insist that it has been renewed, as it has, contributed to an increase in both employment and productivity growth, and the issue is the social dimension of the growing spread and creating an uncertain position of the labour force in the process of introducing labour market flexibility. This is an area that will remain one of the main themes at the political scene of the next three presidencies in the future, so in our Group we advocate that this sensitive area of Slovenia's continued participation in the formulation of a fundamental healthy social policy must be addressed with greater care and sustainability towards concepts that are not compatible with social cohesion and intergenerational solidarity, and a greater emphasis on the social dimension of European life and thus the Slovenian population. As part of the fulfilment of the tasks set out in the Lisbon Strategy, the contribution of the Slovenian Presidency to the establishment of a free European Research Area, which constitutes the fifth fundamental freedom of the European Union, was reflected. Efforts to strengthen intercultural dialogue have also produced many constructive debates in the sense and importance of quality coexistence between different cultures, nations, linguistic diversity and religious diversity. An important step in this partnership was, on our part, the establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University. Also, the round of accession negotiations for membership in the European integration of the two most up-to-date candidates under the auspices of our presidency ran smoothly and we have succeeded in confirming the revised accession partnership both with Croatia and with Turkey. Efforts to strengthen the European perspective of the Western Balkans have also produced important fruits, namely the key conclusion of the network of Stabilisation and Association Agreements with the countries of the region and the launch of the visa liberalisation dialogue in the region. We can assess that the ongoing reform processes under our auspices have produced important results and strengthened stability and security for Europe as geographical wholes. The decision to preside over the Council of Europe has been taken unanimously years ago, with a great deal of affection and willingness on the part of all political options, in order to constructively and responsibly, with all due respect for Slovenian and European citizens, to successfully and fruitfully conclude the chairmanship of the Group's troika. We are pleased to see that this has also been achieved, and the agreed common objectives can also be further upgraded and realized by the achievements of our Presidency. The tasks of the Slovenian Presidency have achieved a large part of their objectives as they have been carried out responsibly and effectively because of the deep awareness that the future of the Union is also our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic, delegational position of the Group on behalf of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! To assess Slovenia's six-month presidency to the European Union as a Member, as a Parliamentary, is somewhat difficult because Parliament was not quite involved in the Presidency. As you know, Parliament's commitment was only at a two-time meeting of the Committees on European Affairs, called Cosac. You know, before the presidency, we have restricted the wishes and wishes of individual working bodies within Parliament after the wider meeting of Slovenia with colleagues from other Member States' parliaments. So out of desire, I think five or six working bodies have agreed to three or four meetings. While we have always stressed that the only real link and the most direct link between citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the bodies of the European Union is the Parliament. It is true that Slovenia, as a new member, was brave enough to take over the leadership of the European Union so soon, without saying it - it could have been an honour for it, which is the right thing to say - in order to say that it is agreed by the rules of the European Union that each Member State of the European Union will preside for six months. One time, one time, one third. I would like to present to you the sincerity of the people, because we are difficult to introduce ourselves, the Slovenes and Slovenians who live in this country and I will show you in a plastic way what kind of response I got from one purely ordinary person in the Rippers, when we meet a lot and talk about everything, from sport to politics. Of course, in my role as Member, I am also obliged to defend all that we do together in the National Assembly. And when I said it was a great honour for Slovenia to preside over the European Union and to work well for the European Union, I got the answer I am giving to myself and to all of you. The man says to me in this conversation, "What do I have with my mosquito and the Slovenians with it? What am I, and what did the Slovenians get out of it?" The chamber had to answer that question. And I admit to you that I was very embarrassed because I couldn't tell you what the Slovenians got from the presidency. I hope one of you can tell me exactly what the Slovenians have received from the presidency. I really want to hear a concrete answer. I couldn't say. The man also told me; well, yes, a lot of respect, we were in the media, maybe even some of them realized where Slovenia is and so on. This is certainly encouraging. And in the end, he said to me, or in the middle, he said to me, "Lay, Mother, I have collingo just like I had before, and the prices are just like they were in Europe." What am I supposed to tell him because it's true? We have European prices, and Slovenians have bad salaries. It is sad that last time I listened to a beautiful show about a lady from Belgium, on a national radio that she married in Slovenia and loves her very much, she is very much in love with Slovenia, but she said she found herself ashamed of how good people like the Slovenians work for so little money. I really don't know what Slovenia's Presidency has brought concrete benefits to Slovenia. Nothing! It is true, however, that much has brought Kosovo, supported Croatia, helped Lithuania, helped Poland, and helped all countries in the European Union Slovenia has helped and brought something good. I really don't know what to do with myself. Nothing. I know because I have been working for eight years in the Committee on European Affairs, that it is a great responsibility when we have chosen as priorities, and we have talked a lot about this, that we will make sure that the Treaty of Lisbon is adopted, because we have also set an example, because we have been the second or third that we have signed. It is true that the Irish have made their choice, because the only country in Ireland has a referendum. But if we are honest, if we are honest, without political connotations, whether any of the Slovenian important men who played an important role during the presidency went to Ireland, addressed Ireland, the Irish Parliament, addressed the Irish people and told them why it would be good for them to decide to approve the Treaty of Lisbon. Did anyone go to Ireland, talk there, talk and influence the Irish? It's not. Let's say what Sarkozy is going to do now, and I don't want to make a comparison. Don't say we didn't do anything. I would expect to go to the Irish to speak to the Irish in order to be called to Brussels to influence all possible ways of making this decision. It is true that Slovenia has launched a three-year period, a second renewed Lisbon strategy, with the so-called fifth freedom, that is the free movement of knowledge. Great. But I'm a little sad that this guy's seat is in Budapest. Because you are Barovic and Slovenian national parties as far as Galileo is concerned, everybody is fed up because we still want to have a seat in Slovenia. But it will, it won't, it will, it won't, the answers were 100. Why not what Slovenia has launched, moved or placed in Ljubljana rather than Budapest?Oh, my God! See for yourself if that's why we did good, if we did it, or if we could do better. The adoption of the European Union's climate and energy package is a very important element that Slovenia has started to introduce and highlight and can also be identified in the content of the materials that we will consider at the next point, if you have only read it. So the operation of Slovenia during the 18 months, until 2009, is a very important climate package, but in doing so Slovenia has done nothing for itself and its energy policy for its state in the energy field. Well, you should. What did she do? I'm really curious. What do you mean?Oh, my God! Did we get ourselves an extra gas source? An extra power? Have we acquired any benefits for the regulation of energy supply in the country of the Republic of Slovenia?Oh, my God! This is a specific question. Have we stimulated energy concerns, climate and energy legislation? Is it going to be a little more detailed, more difficult? What did we give ourselves? Nothing. We didn't get anything for ourselves. It did not provide any new source because we know that we have only two sources - Russia and Africa. To get some new resources to get some European relief. Nothing. I'm still talking about the assignment. And that was the task we set ourselves - the Western Balkans. In silence, I expected, to say the truth, after silently, that Slovenia would reach at least a declaration concerning the integration of the countries of the Western Balkans into the European Union. At least a declaration that would upgrade that Thessaloniki or any other treaty. Don't worry about it. I am always there when our neighbours come from Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo. Our mouths have always been full of promises to help them enter European integration. Well, we didn't. But we had the perfect opportunity, but we didn't at least accept those declarations. And we're here to take all the resolutions you want. One single step that could have been taken by this declaration would have opened up the irreversible path. I repeat, the irreversible path for the Western Balkan countries to Europe. And why should we do that? Because this is an essential issue of security and cooperation, which is still of great importance to us. If these countries do not have the same conditions or about equal conditions and the same timetable for entry into the European Union, I am afraid, but I do not want to see the years repeat in the early 1990s. This is how we promise one thing, but we have not accepted this declaration. But you could, calm down. But we support it because it's fair if I take the whole story now, just Croatia. It also says that we support even the entry of Croatia and Turkey, which is not true, because I myself was personally at the meetings of working bodies, where we made it clear and loud that we will not support Turkey at the same time as Croatia. Today we write here that we support it at the same time as Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, let's be honest. We do not want to support Turkey yet because most of Europe does not want it. Let us leave the reasons for this moment, and let Croatia continue with the behaviour that if the Treaty of Lisbon is not adopted, the Treaty of Nice is in force. And those of you who have at least looked at what this treaty is talking about, you know that the Nice Treaty does not allow any expansion. The Treaty of Nice, which is valid, is some kind of constitution of the European Union, does not allow for enlargement. Pika. But now that we know that the Lisbon Treaties, one of them hasn't already signed, the Poles are thinking because they've done the same thing again the last time. That's not fair either. Slovenia has not warned Poland, Poland is always blackmailing. An equivalent member of the European Union, like us, is always blackmailing something. And she was blackmailing at the beginning of the Treaty of Lisbon, and she's blackmailing now that she said she wouldn't ratify the treaty until she had achieved something. What, we'll read it in the next week or 14 days. Now their ruler says they won't interfere. Of course not, because they've achieved their own. This would be a warning from the Slovenian Presidency that it cannot blackmail and that our common objective is the Treaty of Lisbon, which will allow the enlargement and the new Lisbon strategy and the faster and better development of the whole of Europe. So much for the assignments we set ourselves, about what we did there and what we didn't do. We did not do it in general and especially for Slovenia. I know that it would be very difficult to influence data, the rise in oil prices at that time and the rise in food prices. However, together with others, not only Slovenia, the rest could help Slovenia, we could introduce more stringent measures against gentlemen in the US. And don't be blinded that it's not true that because of the stock exchanges and purely because of their own market, because they don't want to open their stocks yet, they've created a crisis in Europe, and they've created such inflation that will, you'll see how it beats us. But we were not so fair that at the meetings we had, four very important events, with all the recognition, Japan, Latin America and the Caribbean, the United States of America and Russia. Did Slovenia, as chairman of a major event at the highest level with the United States, warn the United States of any kind as chairman that America must also look at Europe and act differently? It's not. I would call this successful leadership and would call this successful leadership of colleagues in the Slovenian National Party. No data was politically or politically motivated. These are the facts that we have revealed to you, colleagues and colleagues, and of course to the Government in particular. As far as technical performance is concerned, the hat's down. It's a Slovenian master. That's right. But, sadly, this success has been enormous, and there are big holes everywhere. And I'm going to end up saying, "What do I get out of this?" But I will be very happy to see, hear, or even feel or experience the answer to that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u154	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the reports and conclusions. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! All present! I'm going to continue here, where my speaker finished and asked myself, what did the Slovenians get from the presidency? It seems very sad to me that some people here are wondering about this, because it is quite clear that Slovenian Presidency is an extremely good investment in the future. We are not taking fruit today, we have heard that we organised this Presidency for a minimum, within European frameworks. And that's what you all admit, great organization. But we will be harvesting the fruits in the future. See, with Slovenia so well organised this Presidency, it has reached all the points of content it has set, it has become a successful, recognizable, reliable country where thousands and thousands of Europeans have learned that it is a country of friendly, bright, intelligent people, with a high technical culture, with a high culture, so that in the future Slovenian products will move to higher price classes. Our companies will sell better. It's over. We know that a country with a reputation, the same products sells more expensive. And Slovenia has solidified, as a metaphorical, Scandinavian country in southern Europe would say. Because Scandinavians sell their products best and dearest. I must say that it is extremely nice to be Slovenian abroad in time after the Slovenian Presidency of the European Union. There they praise and admire us all. I hope and I am sure that the vast majority of Slovenians too are proud to receive such praise that we have been so successful. For the Slovenes are most patriots by nature. They love their homeland. That we can be proud shows a number of responses. I will put three foreign ministers of important European countries in my responses. The external ministry has resigned to the committee. German Foreign Minister Steinmayer says: Slovenians can be proud of their achievements. And I'm sure it's not just courtship. I'm sure it's not courtship that's common on some level. And contrary to what we can hear from abroad, what we can see today is, in my opinion, an unheard-of low scandal when Prime Minister Janez Janša, President of the European Council, presented the Slovenian Presidency under the law during the Presidency. Here, the two parliamentary groups obstructed, ignored this presentation. But you did not ignore the Slovenian President of the Government, but you ignored Europe, and this is a scandal. Such conduct was done by the members of the party in which those who said that if it came to it when the Slovenian State was created, we would eat grass. At the time they did not trust in Slovenia, today they show the ignorance and hatred and defiance of Slovenia to Europe. I would suggest that they learn in France, often referred to as a country of freedom of thought and liberality. That's where President Sarkozy comes in when he's in Parliament, what can't happen. The French love their country and also their Members all love it in general. Unfortunately, here in Slovenia I have to find that some obviously do not love her. And I must continue with Javier Solana's reactions, the High Representative for Foreign Policy, who says: 'impressive and successful premiere' when he speaks of the Slovenian Presidency. And the foreign minister of neighbouring Austria says: 'the prudent historical leadership of the European Union'. And because of all the things we've heard here, luckily only from the work of sentient benches, of course, they don't hold. Nor is it true, as the representative of the parliamentary group that praised the presidency said that the Irish referendum had cast a bad light on the Slovenian presidency. That's not true. And it's not true, and neither will anyone. Does anyone know who presided during the French and Dutch referendums? No one in this room knows exactly. And those referendums didn't shed any bad light on the presidency at the time, so it didn't throw it at the Slovenian presidency. And because of this, at this point when it is all over when it is so successful after us, it is also clearer what was meant by attempts to mine individual events during the Slovenian Presidency, such as the issue of Washington's mail. There it tried to disable the Europe-US Summit and tried to achieve in a low way that the US would become its enemy from Slovenia's ally. And you imagine how important an alliance is to such an important country. Some columnist who comes from these circles even wrote that it is necessary to take advantage of the Schengen when you can bring every bully to Slovenia and make such a "shunder" that the United States will remember this forever. They showed it so clearly. Nor is it true that during the Presidency of Slovenia that the second was fine, but there were no surpluses. You know, some of the achievements of the Slovenian Presidency in particular in the foreign policy area are also surpluses. But we were realistic about not promising the impossible. This, of course, makes it impossible to accept these issues, which the opposition tried to place immediately after the presidency, so that there were no surpluses. Now she's mostly shut up because it hasn't been caught in public. And I am, as I said at the beginning, convinced that most of our people know that the muding of Slovenia at the expense of turning some successes into failures is not possible and that they will also be able to notice, register when they go to the elections. To see who was talking about eating pot in the 1990s if we reach our country, who is ignoring Europe today. Finally, let me say that the main weight was in the government, but that Parliament also had important contributions. It has been mentioned today that the presidents, representatives of the European Committee, have met, but the presidents of the Foreign Policy Committee have also met at a so-called Cozac conference, and I must say, in the presence of Solana, the director of Bosnia Lajček and some other distinguished guests, that it has been an extremely successful meeting. And the French pandan told me that he was afraid that he would not be able to organise such a successful meeting of the presidents of the foreign policy committees in Paris next week. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Once again, Slovenia has been extremely successful in leading the European Union. The fact that, after a few years when the European Union does not have a strategic partnership agreement with the Russian Federation has reached and has challenged the mandate to launch these negotiations is a fact that we must continue to stress that this will give us a significant weight in international foreign policy frameworks. And the fact that we were able to maintain the European Union's indicative unity at the time of Kosovo's declaration as an independent state is a success that many did not believe in. Many in this country have been expecting and looking forward to not knowing any armed conflicts where Slovenia will again be that ugly duck. All this has been done with the success of Slovenian democracy, not only did it not happen, we cancelled all of this in time. I fully agree with those who have been accompanying the European Union for 50 years, those countries that have been in this association for 50 years, these prestigious memberships and who, on the basis of the 50-year experience of Slovenia, report: be proud of the Presidency and be proud of your country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u156	Mrs. Maja Zupan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I am sure and various reactions suggest that the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the European Union can be considered a success. Therefore, I think it is appropriate for us to show the satisfaction and confidence that we have gained as a country at that time, which is not just the domain of some, but of all of us. It is not enough time to assess the success of this complex project with all its substantive, technical, logistical and other elements as quickly as possible. There'll be time for that, and that's the jurisdiction of other services. In my short contribution, however, I would limit myself to just a few points. The programme, which was widely designed, was achieved during our presidency. By the end of June, 19 countries had ratified the Lisbon Treaty. After the Irish referendum, something else, and I think it is very important that Slovenia, as president, knew and could not somehow take that heavy charge and channel it onto a path that can bring a better solution. Efforts for strategic partnerships continued, a summit between the European Union and Japan and between South America was organised. Slovenia, as chairman, has been monitoring and responding to all developments in the world. The main objective, the stabilisation of the Western Balkans, has also been achieved. An agreement was reached with Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, visa facilitation, and accession negotiations with Croatia and Turkey were conducted. At that time, the declaration of Kosovo also fell, with Slovenia, as chairman, knowing that the European Union had maintained unity and presence in Kosovo because there had been no major unrest. In the area of intercultural dialogue, however, initiatives have been linked to various areas: education, youth, other areas, which means a wide range of cooperation. The opening of the climate and energy issue, however, meant a wide opening of this topic and the realization that it is time for us to make something move in this area, which is also a great expectation. In New Slovenia, we are particularly proud of the successful cooperation of our ministers. If I mention only some of the achievements in the field of the justice minister, it means adopting a directive on crime that has devastating consequences for people and for the environment, then progress in the enforcement of the rights to subsistence, in the field of work, family and social adoption of the Working Time Directive and on temporary workers, in the area of higher education and science, it seems important to us to establish a Euro-Mediterranean University based in Slovenia, then in the area of finance, a change in the budget of the European Union for 2008 and to secure the funds of the solidarity fund for the rehabilitation of floods in the railways and so on. We must also not forget the contribution of our Members, both the President of the Committee on European Union Affairs and the President of agriculture. Finally, one of the biggest achievements of the Presidency is that we have shown that we can lead and participate in such challenging projects, although we are a small and young country and that we have helped with our presence that Slovenia is known and recognized in the political space, that Slovenia's media presence in the world is greater and that we have raised a positive picture, especially in the area of culture and tourism promotion for Slovenia. A few thousand people were involved, led by the Prime Minister and ministers. And thank you for all of this. And also to anyone who wasn't on camera, but made sure things went smoothly. The Presidency has been a great test and an opportunity to show off and to use the experience, sympathy and alliances we have acquired in the future. I am convinced that our problems in this light are no longer so great and that this cooperation has brought us width and a better view, which can indirectly contribute to the quality of life not only in Slovenia but also for the entire European population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u158	Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, distinguished president! The Presidency of the European Union has been an opportunity, so today, with certainty, we have been able to take advantage of it in all areas, to take advantage of the success voice, the vote on the achievements that Slovenia has achieved since its independence in the last 17-year period, which has taken place throughout Europe. They trusted us to such an extent that they trusted us to preside, to lead the countries of the European Union, to trust us to lead the 27 countries in the most important communities in the world. The report would probably be better evaluated at a more appropriate time in order to avoid gross disqualifications and mutilation of achievements, as we have heard today, but I think it is necessary to do so immediately after the completion of the presidency in order to draw on and use good examples. I would like to highlight some of the achievements of the Presidency of the Council of Europe, or the Council for Agriculture and Fisheries, led by our Ministry of Agriculture, specifically Minister Jarc, with his fellow workers. We all know that agricultural policy at the level of the European Union or in the European Union is one of the most important policies, that virtually all powers from this area have been transferred to the European level and, therefore, and also for external reasons that were not favourable and irrelevant during our Presidency, it is particularly important to mention the high rise in food prices and the high rise in energy prices, which is the main reason why oil is meant here, the need for rapid and high-quality responses to the threatening rise in food prices and, ultimately, in relation to oil prices, to the extremely high oil prices that we have recorded on the world market at that time, a single review or a new view of the policy towards the production of bio fuels was needed to be made in connection with food production. In this area, important results have been achieved as a result of the conclusions of 19 and 20 June 2008, which represent a thorough and comprehensive response from the European Union to these important and current questions, which we have not been able to define in more detail in the light of the current reality and to prepare more thoroughly on these issues. I think it is also very important from this point of view, because in this way the common agricultural policy has been revised in some way by 2013. The conclusions of the Council of the European Union are an important guide, an important guide adopted during our Presidency for actions or possible actions in the policy of the common agricultural policy at the level of the European Union. It is also worth mentioning, of course, that during our presidency a reform of the common market arrangements for wine was adopted, which is the conclusion of an activity since 2003 and beyond. Technical simplification of the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets Regulation was adopted. Cross compliance rules have been simplified. And more policies in this area have been agreed at a number of formal and informal meetings of this part of the EU Council. Also in the fisheries sector, which is not the most important in our country, important results have been achieved. We would also like to highlight the regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market in the field of phytosanitary matters, as this is considered a successful and important agreement reached during our presidency. Finally, the common position adopted on the proposal for a directive on the sustainable use of pesticides must also be taken into account as a success. We have also not neglected the veterinary field and there are even more things to mention. However, I would like to reiterate once again the conclusions of 19 and 20 June 2008, the conclusions of the European Council, which, in such a form, represent a single comprehensive response of the European Union to the consequences of high food and oil prices on the global market. I am convinced that we can be proud that such things have been accepted with such content during our Presidency and our leadership of this part of the Council of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is true that some people love Slovenia very much and that some again value it more than Slovenia does Europe. Slovenia has nothing since the Presidency of the European Union. I'd say even less than nothing. He's got $70 million worth of money. Of course, there are a few more poor people, in fact we also have European taxes that are bigger than ours, and we have a very large grudge against our neighbours because we have been so active in solving the Balkan crisis. From this title, we also actually have lost markets with the support of Kosovo. And interestingly, Slovenia has its border issues open with Croatia, while other border issues are resolved by the battalion of our army, paid by you, us, citizens and citizens all together. We know how to lead and spend, we also know how to organize, and I believe that some of the old days of slavery are also left in our genes, that we know how to worship those of us who demand this today, tomorrow again something else. In the Slovenian National Party, we think that Slovenia should, and therefore here in the National Assembly, take more care of ourselves than others, and we have proved that we know more about others than we know ourselves, including this leadership. People expect us that even when they go to the referendum to express their state-of-the-art attitude when we decided on our independence, they will expect us simply one fact that they will live better. It is better than yesterday that they will live more European, that they will eventually have European wages; but we have greater poverty, greater misery than we had before, and we praise how successful we are in Europe. These can actually be stories for someone who is still willing to believe, or for those who applaud all those who speak about this speaker, how beautiful it is in Slovenia, there is also something, because we have also allowed a few people to have fatter wallets today, and it is not European. Europe is very democratic in this context and is persecuting customerism and corruption, and probably also unnatural wealth. But since we are very European, we allow this to be more European than Europe. And finally, my respects, which one of the countries has already failed to lead? I believe that France, the Czech Republic and Sweden will lead successfully and later. I believe this, and I believe that there will also be Members who will talk about how many international symposiums there have been, how many of these or those events and will find nice words for their country. The fact is, no government remained in power when it ended the European Union's leadership. Well, it's not so nice, honey. Everything that shines. This is also possible to check from statistics. I do not know any European government that remains after it has finished - successfully - leading the European Union in power. And I believe this government won't either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable ministers and other representatives of the government. When I've been listening to this debate for almost two hours, I think of that Slovenian river that says, "The Slovenian wolf." In fact, in this debate, we are acting in such a way that some of us emphasise the positive aspects of this Presidency, and some are particularly at the heart of some negativeness, especially costs - how much gas has been consumed, how many lunches have been served and so on. So, some marginal, I'd say for this event of irrelevant matters. The European Council wrote: "Slovenia, as the first among the new members, has accepted optimistically, one could say this challenge to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union." I would add, however, that Slovenia is the first among the Slavic nations and also the first of this socialist bloc to have been given this prestigious task, and of course I see it in a much broader context than in this 6-month presidency alone. The news that Europe has re-breathing with both lunges goes far, far back. It was a time of division and not even as great nations as Poland, which, by the way, gave the first Slovenian pope, who also had a decisive impact on the fact that Europe has become united again, has not succeeded at this time in becoming a country as a nation in the same function as we, the Slovenes and the Slovenes. And today, no matter how much someone stopped it, we should see it as the success of the Slovenian nation. This is not only the success of this government, it is also the previous governments, it is actually the success of Slovenia. And this success didn't start on January 1, 2008, but it could go back a long way. When we are talking about Trubar this year, or at least we who are not yet living in a country that has reached the age of full age in a single country, at least we have remembered some of the events that have fueled Slovenia's ability to reach this point. Undoubtedly, this is independence and our 10-day war for Slovenia, then the introduction of a multilateral democratic system with which we said good-bye to the totalitarian state, which would mean indeed disappearances for the Slovenians and the Slovenian people. Then, of course, we decidedly entered the European Union and NATO's alliance to take over the common European currency - the euro and then meet all the conditions. By moving the border to the southern part of Europe, moving the Schengen border and everything we have done in this direction, and this will continue - with regard to Serbia, with regard to Montenegro, with regard to Kosovo - that is to say, this part that was not so far back was one of the bloodiest smells we could see on this Balkan part of Europe. So all of this needs to be seen in some context, and therefore, for this nation that lives on this politically important part of Europe, we could now say united Europe is very important. There is no reason, ladies and gentlemen, for us not to be proud of this. And all this time, we have experienced a lot more, and we could add a lot more, and we could be proud of that, too, that as a nation we have received the first candidate for saint, that we have today as a small nation of our cardinal and so on and so forth. Today, we are listening to these debates, accusing ourselves of who has done more, who has done less and so on. This does not seem to me to be the kind of debate that those who accompany us might actually consider to be commendable as the conclusion of this House's work - and I will conclude now. Perhaps in this final debate or one of the last discussions in this term, I think of a story or, if you want, one joke if the president lets me tell it. And the daughter came and asked her mother how she came into the world, and her mother said, "You know, this is how it started, Adam and Eve and then the nations were different and now you." And then she went to ask her father the same thing, and he said, "You know, that's what it was, first it was a monkey, then a pretzel, and today it's you." And then she was in a dilemma and she went to ask her mother, and she said, "You say so, and Dad says so!" And Mom said, "You know what, every sex has its own story." That's how we develop our every story here today. In fact, it is a common story, and the success story of all of us Slovenes and the Slovenians, who have paid for it together, have provided the staff together and have carried out this extremely demanding project together technically. Of course, the biggest work in the government, the President of the Government and I as New Slovenia's Member of Parliament could all just congratulate for the work done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Homan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u165	Thank you for your word. The Presidency of Slovenia would assess itself to the European Union by superlatives. I have spoken with a lot of delegates or participants, and everyone has commended the organisation, and I can say that Slovenia is kind of a rabble in the organisation of these big events. We have a small airport, friendly, access to the Brdo protocol facility practically people, when they arrived by plane at Jožet Pučnik Airport, from the airport to Brdo did not miss more than 20 minutes. Compared to the great European cities, logistics itself is from the airport to the Presidency itself after a few hours. Over this all participants were thrilled, the very protocol building Brdo - excellently organized, here should commend the protocol. Even this road, which was overlaid when I cheered myself so much that it arranged until the presidency, I can say that everyone was thrilled, stayed in the place and the object itself remained on the Hill. We just need to know how to use it further. That's one job. As far as content work is concerned, it is commendable. These topics were selected precisely, even this topic of intercultural dialogue. I think there's been a lot of work done here. But all I miss is the involvement of the people, or they met. I'm here primarily to appeal to the media. I think that the central point of all six years should be at least the presidency on the first hand, but unfortunately we had a lot of other topics. Here I would point out as problematic that we do not know that this was one of the central events, both for Slovenia and for promotion, but unfortunately on our media this appeared significantly too little. If I conclude my debate. I think we have done our job with excellence, and I think that Europe can also trust us, at least an organisation, with more of these events, because we believe that Slovenia is the ideal place to organise such events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u166	Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Mr. Chairman! Nice greeting to all present in the hall! The Presidency of Slovenia was certainly excellent. This is also provided by delegations and by visitors from abroad, with whom we meet or are provided by people when we go abroad. Of course, more commendation is needed, more encouragement is needed in certain political circles, and a search for hair in the egg, or a reduction in the importance of successful work, or in some way a reduction in the importance of successful work. Among the achievements of the Slovenian Presidency, I would focus mainly on the events to which I have witnessed myself, namely the Cosac meeting in Brdo, where, since the presentation of these Presidencys, the transport and energy package and, above all, the Lisbon strategy have been a great focus. In this particular area, I think we have taken important steps. If the conference in Bali has given rise to some kind of expectation and disappointment, because there have been no concrete conclusions, if time is driving us to a conference in Poznań and to a conference in Copenhagen, then I think that the Slovenian Presidency has once again brought European species together, because we have reached the adoption of a timetable and the adoption of certain directives that affect environmental issues or the security of energy supply and the search for alternatives or the fight against climate change. In recognitions from abroad, I would point out: when meeting with the French delegation, the French Members asked us what we think of them in Slovenia. They asked us for advice, asked us what we thought about the specifics, and how they should take over what they would not be able to bring to the end during the Slovenian Presidency. Well, and in the light of these events, there have also been side events, including the Globe Parliamentary Group has been involved in these developments and we have prepared several consultations with NGOs. I would like to mention one consultation, to which I have some comments, because all organisations with two NGOs that could be more classified in the left political field have, say, invited very strange partners, such as the Sports Union of Slovenia, the Association of Insurance Agents, the Union of Pharmaceutical Workers, the Party of the Slovenian People, the Council of Church AnnaSann Raelian religion in Slovenia. I know what these organisations have to do with the fight against climate change. Finally, I would like to condemn today's obstruction, which I don't even know if it was predicted, was more like a boycott, maybe people went to listen to the people who are convincing us, at least in the middle of Magu, so that we're living worse now. The survey data show exactly the opposite, about 80% of people have declared themselves living better. Maybe some really live worse, we got in some other book that Comrade Miha Marinko at the state cost ordered 1,000 litres of drill. Of course, this can no longer be repeated in these times. The Cat Matija also ordered half a truck of mountain stomachs, and was warned in the factory that it was being prepared fresh and fresh. Finally, a little personal experience. I go to my friends, I see, they have a dog and a cat. They're supplied from a famous inn and I see a cat eating a Danish steak, almost half of it. So, if people throw Danish steaks away in pubs, if they're almost making fun of food, then we can't say we're living badly. I believe that there remain certain categories that live poorly, but we have taken care of them in this mandate, or if voters give us the opportunity, we will continue to ensure that we also give these worst-standing categories, in a financial sense, an opportunity, for the first time, to improve our financial situation or to give them social assistance for a better life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u168	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. I hope Mr. Marinko enjoyed the exercise. There has been a syntagm in Brussels for some time now that there is a fundamental knowledge for each country after every Presidency of the European Union that there is life after death. Comrade Jerovšek spoke in other words. Joseph Jerovšek said that we do not rob the fruits of the presidency today, but we will rob them of them in the future. So the Presidency is over. The question is, how will this Presidency be reflected in the future, how will this Presidency live, how will this Presidency be recorded, both in us and in the European Union, and what will it leave behind? The assessments of the Presidency are excellent, except in some cases in the Slovenian public, where there are only internal political conflicts, internal political disputes and, of course, legitimate ones. At this time, Slovenia has shown that it can preside over the most important international events, and I am sure that we will get another important international event or international event at the expense of the well-managed Presidency. How this will capitalise on tourism will be seen in the future. My assessment is that we will also draw the most on this side, given that tourists have already flocked to Ljubljana in recent years and that during the presidency Slovenia has visited thousands and thousands of officials who have carried the good voice of Slovenia outside. One of the advantages of this presidency is that Europe has become interested in Slovenia. Slovenia was on the front pages of the newspapers, on the front pages of the world’s media when we gained independence. A similar assessment also applies during the presidency, when Slovenia covered the most important media, the most important pages of newspapers. On the other hand, the domestic Slovenian public has become more interested in European themes than ever before, and this is also important. All these meetings, when Prime Minister Janez Janša hosted the EU-Japan meeting, EU-Latin America, EU-Central America, Chile, the EU-US Summit, EU-Russia, finally gave Slovenia a unique reputation. This little country of ours has set it on a planet, given it a planetary duck. So, this claim, after each presidency for each country, that there is life after death, is indeed true. Slovenia, I am sure, will in the future make good money this opportunity that has been given us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Mr. Aleš Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u171	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! All day long, or after the end of the previous point, we now have this propaganda stake. Although I do not think that all achievements should be praised as long and as widely as possible, nor should we negatively evaluate matters that could have been done differently than anyone would have wanted. But listening to the report on this presidency today is in a way insulting to the National Assembly. This has already been published purely in all media, and this has already been presented to the European Parliament. That's when the Prime Minister didn't leave after his lecture, but he waited until the end. So that when we hear how insulting we are, it's completely out of place and pointless, we're not offensive and we're not ignoring anything, but we've heard it, seen it multiple times, it's a real "deja vu" and it's a rehearsal. Of course, I would have relied on some of the debates that were offensive. Mr. Jerovšek, you must have heard wrong about the grass. At the time, it was not said that she would eat, but that she would smoke, and you certainly know that. It's about something else, it's about another plant and other effects. It is too much to understand how Slovenia has been introduced by many who have come from Europe to our places at this time. I must tell you that from Jožet Pučnik airport to Brdo something not many Slovenia have seen and even on the way back no. That it was resounding, and that all the newspapers that happened during the presidency, there was also a lot of exaggeration, not even in ours. In foreign Slovenia appeared towards the end of the presidency, when radioactive water escaped or when the report was miswritten - this was an echo. And the second echo that went through the yellow press was a lady's fight, so-called. That's what's been heard. Slovenia has done well in this technical organisational sense in the Presidency and there have been no comments here. And congratulations should be given to all those who, like ants, cared for all this machinery to run well. But as far as I know, there's a number of people out there who can't be identified as coalition or opposition voters. The consequences of the presidency will be assessed later. They probably won't show up so quickly, but we know at least one thing: that we will have more employees in the state administration - I don't know how many, 111 or how many of them will work - even though this has been said to be a unique and remarkable project. And the good result is one or the other, I will say, in honor of the government and this House, that people who could not afford a vacation at that time will be able to afford it. I hope that the National Assembly will also allow all the workers in the National Assembly, the employees here, to be able to allow when we are done with all these devilish, extraordinary, urgent and I do not know what kind of meetings. In the end, however, I would point out that everything that was so accentuated and praiseworthy has actually happened before and somewhere else. So, Slovenia did this solidly, well, because obviously there were no big comments. The second thing I said before, of course, was that technically this was done well. Thirdly, this internalization of our foreign policy activity has in fact been extremely poor and is kind of a stain. I'm sure we'll feel that. This result will be felt and, of course, I give a lot to hope that, at least to me, it is a very common phenomenon for governments to change after the presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u172	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Excuse me? The replica was about some weed. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u173	Well, if you, Mr Vice President, are starting with this grass, I must say that it would probably be too obvious today if you or those parties claimed that I would not say that Mr Gulič said that we would eat grass in Europe. That would be too transparent to be true. At the time, however, they were afraid of this and tried to oppose Slovenia's independence. I must insist, as President of the Committee on Foreign Policy, that today's conduct, ignoring, obstructing the report of the President of the European Council during the Presidency, defiance and low conduct, defiance of my own country, of my own country. Slovenia does not deserve this and is certainly a precedent in European parliamentary practices. This is something that European Members in other countries would not afford. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u174	Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u175	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Minister and others, representative and representatives of the Government! Seventy-one percent of Slovenians believe that the country of Slovenia benefits from membership in the European Union, we can read this from yesterday in a survey done by the Eurobarometer. And there has also been a strong conviction among Slovenians about the impact of our country at European Union level. According to 73%, almost three quarters of respondents believe that the voice of Slovenia in the European Union is considered to be valid. This is significantly more than the average in the European Union. To return to 2006 he was 29 November 2006 and then European troops awarded a prize to our Slovenian finance minister Dr. Bajuk and the President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso. And the recipient of Dr. Bajuk's prize then said significant words: "The award is a compliment and recognition to the whole of Slovenia; what we have achieved is outstanding. This is not the achievement of an individual, this is the achievement of all the people." And further, what I want to repeat is precisely because this was November 29th: "I am glad to be back in Europe, where we belong. This is the last step on our long way home." And then European soldiers described him as a king who comes home and says, "There's a lot of beauty in the world, but only in Slovenia I'm home." It was, as it was said, November 29th. In a previous regime and in a previous country, it was that day that we celebrated the birthday of that country, and this was a heartwarming celebration. Now that we have our true homeland, we know that it was not our real country, maybe it was, but it was not good for everyone, because even before the bad 20 years ago, some important Slovenian politicians in smooth Serbian spoke that we would never "never want" that we would never let our own country that was born on November 29th fall apart and that we would never, said some Slovenian politicians, let Slovenia secede from this country and thus cause the breakdown of the SFRJ. And here again is the European military, 3 July 2008. You may not have been given or have not had time to read what European troops say on July 3rd. The edition gives the Slovenian Presidency an excellent assessment, the European Parliament's European newspaper, none of the Slovenians. They pay particular attention to the particularly successful work of the Economic and Financial Affairs Council, so-called ECOFIN, led by Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Finance during the Slovenian Presidency. The article states that Slovenia was brave to take over the presidency of the Council of Ministers. There was a lot on her shoulders, even in terms of the institutional history of the EU. Slovenia was the first of the new EU Member States to face this challenge. This was also the first time in more than 10 years that the new Member State chaired. Slovenia was the first post-communist country and the first Slavic country to ever preside over the Council of the European Union - and so on, because I have too little time. Finally, euorpean voice commends, says this, quote: "A ambitious response to the international financial upheaval emerges among the successes with which Slovenia can be commended. The March European Council and the professional management of the informal meeting of the financial ministers in April have drawn up work plans for the useful new measures on regulation, control and cooperation in cross-border financial markets, while the Finance Minister, Dr Andrej Bajuk, has undeniably defended the independence of the European Central Bank in the light of attempts to intervene by France." It is, however, the obvious successes that Slovenia has made during the EU's six-year term. However, not only in the field of economy and financial matters, but also in the area of justice. Let me just remind you of the adoption of the Crimes Directive, which has devastating consequences for people and the environment, then the European Judicial Portal project, the progress made in the exercise of the right to maintenance. Let me remind you of the successes in the field of work, family and social affairs. Adoption of the Working Time Directive - an extremely important directive - and a directive on temporary workers, adoption of a legislative package in the coordination of social security systems, adoption of a resolution on the situation of disabled persons in the EU and so on. In the field of higher education and science, this has been said many times today and I think we can repeat this and then we can be proud of the establishment of a Euro-Mediterranean University based in Slovenia. Someone asked today what we got from this presidency. The seat will be in Slovenia. The adoption of Council conclusions on a family-friendly scientific career, the establishment of the Ljubljana process of commitment to deepen the European Research Area, is once again a Ljubljana process, i.e. the Slovenian process. Implementation of a grant project to modernise the Western Balkans' research infrastructure and so on. And I conclude with finance again: the change in the budget of the European Union for 2008 and the provision of the solidarity fund for the rehabilitation of floods in the Railways - Railways are in Slovenia - the Memorandum of Cooperation between the competent supervisory institutions and so on not to mention. I would like to conclude by thanking and commend, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, all those who participated in this, for Slovenia's extremely important project, all at ministerial level, at the level of government institutions, of course all those who contributed to Slovenia's success in this area. I would like to thank all those, including those for their patience, who may have at some point had to wait for roadblocks and so on and so forth. We therefore have a successful half-year of Presidency of the Council of the European Union, and we Slovenians can be proud of that. Congratulations, everybody.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u176	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u177	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, everyone else is present. During the Presidency, Slovenia undoubtedly consolidated its position and reputation and left an indelible mark in the international community. We have strengthened visibility, achieved all the goals we have set ourselves, and have gained rich experience, knowledge and proven that in Slovenia we have an outstanding human resources potential, which is certainly the greatest guarantee for our future activities. Of course, all of this cannot be valued with money, but I do not think that it is irrelevant that we have been rational in this area as well, and that we have spent less than our predecessor and much less than the country currently holds the presidency. Today there has also been some talk about statistics, about what the Slovenians actually mean by this leadership of the European Union and how they perceive it. The data of the Eurobarometer show that it was important to lead the Union for Slovenia, according to 80% of the Slovenian respondents, and 92% of them knew of the presidency. And since there are also many questions about our standard of living and our sense of life in this connection, let me tell you another information from the latest Eurobarometer, published twice a year by the European Commission. This data shows that Slovenians record a rise in contentment with life, as there are 89% who are satisfied with the quality of their lives. Among these 89% there is obviously no Milan citizen who looks at us from the cover of one of the weeks and is, despite several thousand euros of the pension of a different opinion, because he says, "We are living worse now." End of quote. Of course, Slovenia is not immune to concerns about high food prices and inflation, and as a result, 42% of Slovenians, after this study, feel that our economy is looking forward to worse times, more Slovenians than the average of the European Union, are also facing difficulties in paying bills. The measures that have been taken in recent months, which some in the opposition called "pre-election candy", were therefore not the same, but the government's response to the situation that we face in Slovenia after rising global oil and food prices. Slovenia has therefore been successful in leading the Council of the European Union, and despite the many activities and responsibilities it has had with regard to the Presidency, the Government has acted responsibly and responsibly in the face of the changed economic conditions brought to us by global global trends. I am sure that we will be as successful as we have been in leading the European Union, even if we continue to run the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u178	Mr. Stane Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. I am pleased to have participated at the beginning of this term in the vote, in the decision to take the Presidency of Slovenia. Of course, I think it is a great honour for Slovenia, on the other hand, a great responsibility was expressed at the time, but we did all this with excellence. All foreign media, foreign states, have praised us and said that they did not, in fact, expect a relatively small country to be so engaged and so perfectly carried out the presidency, but this is only the outside of this Presidency. For me, more important is content. The contents were also made with a decoration. Slovenia has been actively working on projects, but I do not intend to list them, and in all the details it has been imaginatively involved in moving this wagon of the European Union forward and not a little bit, which has moved a lot if we compare it with other Presidencys. I am so very pleased with this aspect. I am also pleased that a new, large group of people have learned in practice, which we previously knew only theoretically, or we could only theoretically explore what it would look like for Slovenia to preside over the European Union. And these are especially young people who have been given the opportunity to make a career elsewhere and show these experiences elsewhere. In the economy, for example. I am very pleased that Slovenia has done this hugely, for example, at the promotion of tourism, because tourism is an economy. And this influence will be known for a long time in Slovenian tourism, because this year we had a very growing tourism and we have done a lot in this area. Of course, this was influenced by a number of other things - from Schengen, to the introduction of the euro, to the proper conduct in the essence of every citizen of this country. Of course, then I would also like to commend all those who may have been somewhat disadvantaged and who have been patient, that is, especially those who have felt some traffic jam and actually had to endure a little. Thanking them, too, for being patient and not causing any inconvenience with some protests, which I could not say was part of the motivated groups that sent various messages to Europe, which is legitimate, but not legitimate at this time. It's not state-of-the-art. And at that time, it would be right that we would be substantially more cohesive and that only for this part, for these six months, we would try and not give so much, I will say, wrong information - I will not emphasise or say any more harsh words - so by the opposition, I know that the opposition must be critical, but in my opinion, it has sometimes gone beyond this normal criticism. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And it's gone to mud, I can tell. [[...]] That wasn't right. Otherwise, I think it was okay, and we did a great job. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u180	Mr. Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. I'll try to continue where my forerunner has finished. I agree with him and that we have carried out an excellent Presidency of the European Union. I'll point it out again, Slovenes and Slovenians, no one else. We have carried out an excellent Presidency of the European Union. The Eurobarometer, to which most refer, has shown some results; indeed, it is a very legitimate barometer to which it is worth referring, even if you are as big as the Slovenian state and even if it has so many responses, if you look at how much the quota of the people questioned was and from which countries and how much this quota was from Slovenia, it can be very legitimate. But some other poll by a Slovenian officer or a week that was supposed to come from government types or at least was financed there, I'm saying, showed another story that says that 74% of the people in this country are worse, 23% better, and 3% are the same. When I read this, I thought it was a typographical mistake, but this government doesn't seem to be affected by the press. We could turn these percentages up a little bit. If I initially forgot to thank anyone for this excellent Presidency of the European Union, it is certainly the people who worked in the backstage. Those, I'll say, officials and other young people who have been tortured or intolerant for 12, 18 hours so that some minister could look nice or say something nice, they can say thanks. We know the principle of politics. I would like to stress once again: Slovenia and Slovenia have done well with the story of the Presidency of the European Union, and I believe that if there were any other government, some other prime minister, some other ministers, this excellence would be the same. This excellence would be the same, Mr Grims, not to be self-indulgent enough to nod that story. We are so proud of Slovenians and Slovenians, and we have so much knowledge that every minister and every prime minister will make an excellent one when it comes to Slovenia. You are very proud of these posters, you do them yourself, just like the Slovenian weekly, because you know you have been in the crossword puzzle four times, and some of these posters do not give much. As for the most vocal four ministers I have heard in the debate, today I have asked the Prime Minister a question or asked a question in the Lip Group: Is it true that the four most prominent ministers of our government have dual citizenship? If they have it - and do they have it: Does this mean that they have one citizenship "for the ziher"? Because maybe, because it will never be the way it is today, they will represent another country when it holds the presidency of the non-European Union, maybe some other South American story or I don't know where it comes from when it comes to an association - I don't know, I guess. But I wonder if that's true, then it's all too much of a thank you to talk about trusting Slovenia, because if one of the ministers has dual citizenship, then it's a shame for Slovenia, because we don't know which country he represented. The one whose minister and the one who swore, or the one whose citizenship he took as a ziher, and deceived the Slovenian and Slovenians. And this disgrace will soon manifest itself. I believe that this is legitimate in our country, that I have a dual nationality, and the question is how morally correct it is here and today to say how beautiful Slovenia is and only here I am at home. At the same time, when he came home and got this other citizenship, he didn't give up on another, even though he's the most beautiful; here's democracy, here's no more war, here we have a wonderful, here you can even rule when you come home. And to talk about Slovenia - I don't know if anyone recognized in this, I'm very sorry, I didn't talk about names - talking about someone fighting for Slovenia in this case and whatever they did for Slovenia, it seems superficial and misleading those Slovenes and Slovenians who really did with excellence and believe in the story of the European Union. I am still skeptical until the story of the European Union. And I will look forward to the answer of the Prime Minister to this question. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And then it will be interesting to see who, for which country and how he fought. [[...]] Then maybe the answers will be more in the palm of your hand. To talk about the fact that the lives of people in our country have improved in any way simply because we have presided over the European Union, Slovenia is a mere larifari. We may have done something at the promotion of the state, but a trifle, I already told you in the introduction, who did something, this is Urska Bachovnik, and no one else.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u182	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u183	Thank you very much, Chairman. I am most pleased that the Presidency of Slovenia has ended to the European Union and this has ended in a successful, dignified way, which we do not have to be ashamed of, but now it is quite another day for several days, we have new challenges, new problems. Some of you have quoted what European newspapers say. I would remind you of the one today where it says that the European Union has the highest inflation in history, but on this infamous scale, we are in Slovenia, if we look from behind, in an honorable last place. Our tasks are neither in the clouds nor in the heavens, our tasks are here and now, fighting how to provide energy supply, how to deal with climate change, how to avoid the consequences and recovery after the storm, as was the last one, and what would happen. We simply said on the farmers, "For milk that has been spilled, it is no longer necessary to worry." And let this be a message, we need to look ahead, we already have problems without Europe at home on our land for more than enough, and our task first is to save these. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kokalj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u185	Thank you very much. After such an important project as the Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union, I think that it is necessary to take some time and to make as objective an assessment as possible so that we actually know what we have achieved for Slovenia, that we actually know what we have achieved for the entire European Union, and that we know how to do things when we are back on track, because the personal will probably change a lot. The issue itself could be assessed personally with two sides, first as a member of the political party of New Slovenia - the Christian People's Party, which swears on European orientation, is said in this sense to be a European orientation that Slovenia must be an active member of the European Union, actively cooperate and have the power to influence further development. And this international dimension of Slovenia, as a small country, certainly offers more opportunities than if it lived as an isolated country. As the winner of the first and so far recent European elections, I am proud to associate this with our four ministers when it comes to the concrete results of our Presidency, when it comes to specific matters by the Government. Here I would first point out the presence here of Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, who took over the ministerial post a bad year ago, and I recall the debate on how she will be a member during the presidency, because she will have to cover four Commissioners' areas. However, we can say that there are quite a few concrete successes, from the Mediterranean University to the fifth freedom and so on related to these areas. I have already listed the content covered by our second minister, Mrs Cotmanova. Also on the part of parliamentarians with whom I have the opportunity to meet four times a year within the framework of the European Union Affairs Committees and where there are evaluations, I will say that it is more relaxing where people are not so committed to the strict instructions given by individual governments. As a member of New Slovenia, I can also assess in Parliament that we have also done a key work on this segment by Members or Members of the New Slovenia, of course, with the help of - here I agree with the predecessors - with very good professional assistance from the staff here in the National Assembly, including in connection with the Government's professional services. And I would also like to thank all the experts who are specifically at the meeting of the European Union Affairs Committees, where matters are taking place slightly less predictable than possible at the meetings of the various Councils of the European Union, where things are prepared earlier, there are amendments to the text, which must be adopted unanimously and which should then be published in the Official Journal, at the debate itself. For the first time, I have been confronted with this role of coordinator or chairman of such a meeting. And I must say, despite the fact that the situation at the moment was chaotic, we succeeded in talking with the most influential members who always want to have the last word, to harmonise the text, so that it was acceptable not only for the 27 members, but for 40 homes. There are individual Houses of Parliament votes because 13 parliaments have a two-house system and sometimes two houses in this Parliament do not agree with each other. I must say that we have raised our reputation as Slovenia, even at the parliamentary level, by succeeding in reaching consensus and compromise on all the proposed amendments. I am sure that this is also a very large added value that the Government has managed to overcome during the presidency. I think that Slovenia is now more responsive to the Councils of the European Union, including working groups, during the French Presidency. I would certainly like this condition to be maintained further. Here I would point out perhaps one slightly weaker point that I experienced as a Member during the Presidency, which is a slightly weaker contact with the Government, says between the Government and Parliament. I hope that this period will now be, otherwise we are before the elections, but I hope that the situation will improve, and it is a pity that this time has not been used to involve more Members more substantively at conferences that have been excellently organised at the non-ministral level. I must say that it would be good if the next term of office were to show a little more interest in European themes. In the end, he would only touch the staff. During that time, we acquired a set of excellent staff, including an initiative - the Western Balkans is looking for help [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I also call on the Government to reach an agreement with the European Commission with a view to finally releasing the employment quotas within the framework of the European Commission, which belong to Slovenia. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u186	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, Mrs Borota, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Allow me, on behalf of the Government, to respond to certain outstanding praises, including criticisms that are always welcome, and to make some general assessment of the two documents that we have discussed today. These two documents are a letter paper. But what we've achieved and what we can't count is not in this paper. I'm saying this because it was obvious that we didn't do anything for Slovenia. We've done a lot for three things. First of all, we've done a lot for the country, for Slovenia alone. We have gained credibility, with our professionalism, patience and perseverance, we have achieved in a fine way what many have not expected. There was a lot of skepticism, a lot of doubts, and in the end, I can say that despite modesty, we ended up winning a modest beginning. We have received such arguments and responses both from Member States and from European institutions, as well as from European colleagues across the Union. That's the first one. Secondly, we have gained a lot as Slovenians, we have proven once again that when it comes to nails, when we have to defend our interests, when we want positive results, then we can put our heads together, then we can act as a team, and we have proved this perfectly on this project. We acted transparently, we did not wonder whether it was the night or the day they allowed, it was important to achieve what we had set ourselves and that was good. And a third. We have made a lot of profits and achievements as individuals, we have learned a lot, we have gained a lot of knowledge, we have established a wide network of business acquaintances and friends that we can always call, and this is a huge capital for the future for lobbying and representing our interests. This is now like a general framework, and to the obvious and to the praises. Now, let me answer even more specific questions, for example, about the criticism of leadership and non-ambitiousness. So, it is known that the vast majority of matters in the European Union are inherited, and that is why things are taking place on a stable path, but there are always events and questions that need to be addressed and where a lot of political will is taking place. I think this is where we proved it perfectly. And the Prime Minister was very right when he said we'd achieved a lot beyond the pressures. Perhaps just the answer to the question, i.e. the Member who said there was no need to be nervous, everything is covered up. This is not entirely true, there are always some special surprises that you are never prepared for, it was the same with regard to, say, the situation before the June European Council when we faced, but already in March, with the crisis in the financial markets and also with high food and oil prices, which surprised even Europe and the world, that was quite striking on the broad spectrum. Then there were critical situations in Burma, the earthquake in China and similar matters. As regards the cost criticism, the Government was very realistic in the planning of costs and has therefore relatively set up the whole project. Of course, the effects of all these investments will only be shown and reflected in the future, these currently cannot be measured, but will certainly be large. As for the centralised approach and the obvious that all matters were organised in Brdo; in fact, the main events were organised in Brdo, but the accompanying events took place elsewhere. Thus, the host ministers took the participants practically across Slovenia, depending on which location they chose. But they certainly also looked at Štajersko, Primorsko, Portorož, Kranjsko Goro, Maribor, two conferences were held in Maribor. That's not how this reading works. After all, it concerns foreign policy issues concerning Kosovo. That something happened on its own, which just happened to Slovenia. In fact, the announcement of independence could not have prevented, that is true. However, it was a fact that a coordinated response had to be prepared. And given the difficult political situation in the region and the tension of the mood in the Member States themselves, this was not easy to resolve. It's easy to talk, but after you're actually directing all these positions and trying to diplomatically put some calm policy into place, it's not that simple. Because it is not a matter of directing and ordering the Presidency of the EU Council, but of coordinating the positions of the sovereign Member States, which requires a lot of diplomatic skills. As far as the Western Balkans in general is concerned, the success was that the conclusions were so ambitious in the June European Council, both politically and in terms of linking the annex to the conclusions and the individual declaration, something truly remarkable. I can assure you, when we went to watch the Presidency back, that a similar declaration had only the Greek Presidency with the Thessaloniki Agenda. And even when we fought that this declaration had actually been attached, there had to be a lot of negotiations on [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] when Member States actually first saw the results of the projects as aid to the citizens of this region and think that this is something new. [[...]] But then we only started to explain to them that this was something we had established with great effect, and only after we explained it did they finally accept the text and commend it, so it's not such a self-sustaining matter. These projects concern a number of practical measures, such as cooperation in the field of energy, transport, multiple scholarships, then a single financial framework for the Western Balkans, which will now be established. Previously, this was divided into at least three financial institutions, so Slovenia's contribution as far as this is concerned is considerable. Criticism at Tibet's expense that we haven't responded. This is not true because we handed over the demarche in Beijing and Ljubljana, and immediately. This was also discussed at the informal meeting of foreign ministers, so that the reaction of the Slovenian Presidency was prompt and correct. As far as the Treaty of Lisbon is concerned and we may not have been able to achieve what we originally set ourselves, this is not true, because as far as ratifications across Member States are concerned, this is something we cannot influence. However, we were able to influence the mood and the environment so that it was not unnecessarily upset with topics that were not very useful at the time of ratifications in some Member States. It also required a lot of diplomatic skills, so in the June European Council itself, the prime minister and the entire administration have done much to keep it together in some context, so that the reactions of individual Member States have not been overemphasized so that criticism has not been exposed. Despite the poor start of the June European Council, positive energy has, in fact, held back, and the consensus has really been strong to continue ratifications, to let Ireland settle the situation at home, to find out where the causes are, and to come back with proposals at least October of the month. So, then we said October, now it shows that it can happen, that it may also be a little later. As far as the Roma are concerned, it is not entirely true that nothing has happened in this regard, because the European Commission has already announced at the time of our Presidency that it will prepare a special study on this subject and has also prepared it on 2 July. That is why it was already an agreement at the time to prepare a special conference, more at the EU level, because this is a matter that needs to be resolved and that needs to be discussed at the EU level, and this conference is likely to take place very soon in the autumn. Of course, it is better to study earlier that there is a substantive basis on which concrete proposals and solutions can be made. As for the perceptions of the under-involvement of the National Assembly. I don't know. We have worked very hard to come to the National Assembly, although there has been very little time and the whole Government has been very, very busy with all the conferences, holy and commitments in the Presidency, so that we have done what was possible and have come to terms with positions whenever necessary, and I think this will also happen properly in the future. As far as energy achievements are concerned for Slovenia. This is a bit of a strange question because we have chaired the EU Council, and I think we have not been able to fight directly for Slovenia, but we have, in spite of all that, in the framework of the negotiations for the climate and energy package, achieved quite a breakthrough in what we thought must be achieved by Slovenia. For example, within the framework of the principle of solidarity, we have reached a decision that, in the context of the reform of justice, Slovenia has been granted the right to 108% of allowances for emissions trading in 2005 and so much as to make it clear to you that the more developed EU countries have received only 90% of the right to compare. It's such a beautiful achievement. It's just one, or there's a lot more. The second achievement is also the liberalisation of the energy market, which will not only benefit Slovenia but all European citizens. In general, all these matters are for the benefit of all European citizens and will in the long term be able to increase the supply of the energy market and also lower consumer prices. That's it. Now it seems to me that there were no major substantive issues, I'm afraid. In the end, I thank everyone on behalf of the Government for all the praises. Believe that this was like a balm for all my colleagues, thousands of colleagues who sometimes came from Brussels just sad, when we worked all night for good achievements, and then they noticed - see, even on the first page this achievement is not mentioned, even though we have been watching all night. Believe me, nobody thought about which party they belong to, we only wanted good "images" and good results for Slovenia and for all Slovenes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u188	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted it, you got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Just one hand. Mr. Mogue, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u189	It'll be too much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I didn't want to get in touch, but there were so many things in the conversation that were meant for the opposition, so a few words had to be said about what we were summoned to say. I would like to say that I, too, personally thank all those who have successfully led this Slovenian Presidency process in the European Union. As a country, we can be proud to have done this great project for the first time that we have our own country. I expected that at a meeting that would have a greater approach to the ceremony, this matter would be dealt with, but unfortunately, we still have little love for our fatherhood, which is reflected in these things, when we also have a solemn meeting on Statehood Day, where Parliament is half empty, as is now half empty. Not one third of us have been here, the ministers who are responsible for these departments or the head of the Government - there are none of them, and the secretaries of the state, who must be replaced. I don't want to offend you with this, but this whole festivities thing has lost its shine somewhere. I just want to say the following. You know, Parliament is the highest instance we have in the country of statehood. We are representatives of all people here, and we have elected a government. And when you were preparing this session and when you were preparing the agenda, I think you should make this point, the next point, and finally the point where we're talking about lawyers. However, the fact that the Government took the time to hold its meeting largely and that we had to wait in the National Assembly for the Government to conclude its meeting and that we had to then interrupt in the middle of the amendment, stop in the midst of the declared debaters for this amendment and wait here peacefully for the President to come, I am the Prime Minister and have an opening speech, you know, this is, in my opinion, a grave, underestimation of Parliament. That's not how you do it. In the old party systems, I witnessed and also participated, so that when they had these solemn things, the secretary-general came, he recited his things, went, and then, forgive the expression, ordinary people could speak and have a word. And something like this has happened here today. We didn't obstruct the Prime Minister's speech. We didn't, we didn't say it publicly, but we were sitting in our parliamentary clubs and listening to him, but we wanted to show him that this is not how it works with members of the National Assembly. It is necessary to have some respect for these people who are sitting here, and this institution must also be respected, and not to consider it the last brother, but when I have five minutes of time, I will take the time for Parliament. First, it is necessary, Madam Ministers, to take time for Parliament and then for other things. You have your deputies, nothing, and you can do that job instead of you when Parliament asks you to sit here. In this regard, I would like to try to conclude that people from the Government should think about not working with Parliament in this way, that the organisation of Parliament and the Government should agree in such a way that we can do such things without humiliating the members of the National Assembly. What happened today was, in my opinion, my own personal opinion, humiliating to Parliament, so we preferred to listen elsewhere than here. But being here is just why you listen to the Prime Minister here, and with your presence you give him some credibility, and then when he recites, he doesn't listen to us, and he goes away because he has other things. You know what doesn't happen in other parliaments too often. For this reason again, forgive this sermon of mine, but it was quite said, once again, thank you, who took all these things, it was really nice for the first presidency and I think that this also taught us something that we could be proud of ourselves, but not that when we were here - what I was listening to - with the bright and goblins we would pour the manure one after the other for all that we had done 10, 15 years ago, but we would never be happy with the successes we had achieved. Let us once be as clean and truly as we have done what is right, commend ourselves and stop watering with manure as it has been during this part of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u190	I'm closing the debate. The National Assembly took note of the Slovenian Presidency Report to the Council of the European Union from 1 January to 30 June 2008 and the conclusions of the European Council of 19 and 20 June 2008. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Declaration on guidelines for the operation of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the period July 2008 - December 2009. The proposal for a declaration was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to the Prime Minister. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u191	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. When I presented the Presidency programme sometime in December last year, I highlighted the two key challenges that lie ahead of the European Union, the first is to finally acquire a new institutional basis and the second one to become a more competitive society on the outside, as a prerequisite for the performance on the inside. At the end of our presidency, when we shape the direction forward and we write these guidelines in this declaration, in fact, both challenges remain unchanged. However, the role of Slovenia, which has once again become one of the Member States alone, is no more than the President, thus less burdened by the search for a European compromise between national positions and can be more focused on its national interest within European frameworks. However, the gap between national and European interests in the age of global challenges is becoming less pronounced, and the responses to climate, demographic, economic and other changes are as useful for us as they are at European level. It is therefore important that we also support the strategic objectives of the European Union as set out in the 18-month programme of the Council of the European Union for the coming year and a half. The more we contribute to their realization, the better we will realize the key interests of Slovenia. We understand the importance of proactive action in the European Union after the Presidency better than ever before, within the Council programme of the European Union, we have identified the three priority objectives of the future three presidencies, or the current and future two presidencies, which we particularly want to take part in. First, in the development of the European Union, in the institutional, enlargement and operational sense, then in the quality of life and security in the European Union and third in the role of the European Union in the global world. The three pillars are also based on the declaration of guidelines proposed for the continued 18-month operation of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. Something about the first pillar is said to be the development of the Union. The development of the Union is the basis for efficiency and also a basis for further enlargement of the Union; the change after the end of the cold war has been addressed by the European Union with four measures: firstly, through enlargement, then through the creation of a common monetary space, thirdly through the launch of the Lisbon Strategy and fourthly through institutional reform. The three were indisputably successful, both enlargement and the common European currency, the Lisbon strategy, pending the fourth delay, the new 18-month period will be decisive for it. As I mentioned in the June European Council report, there is broad consensus among Member States that the Treaty of Lisbon is the right instrument for moving forward. Slovenia will therefore continue to support the continuation of ratification procedures in those few Member States that have not yet completed them. We will also continue to promote an enlargement policy, which is one of the EU's main development catalysts. We will support further negotiations with the two existing candidates, provided, of course, that they meet all the necessary membership criteria. The European perspective of the Western Balkan countries also remains high on the EU agenda thanks to the Slovenian Presidency. Slovenia will continue its efforts so far, in particular to obtain a date for starting negotiations with Macedonia. The new development guidelines will be adequately supported by the review of European cohesion and agricultural policy. There will also be a reform of the European budget, which has been breaking opinions in the EU for many years. Slovenia will work towards a restructuring that will allow more appropriate funding for EU development goals and ensure sustainability: public finances with further enlargements. Second pillar, Union action on long-term quality of life and security. Despite the substantive, institutional and budgetary adjustment to the current challenges, the fundamental interest of the European Union, in fact, remains the same as it was 50 years ago, only the wider circumstances have changed. This fundamental interest, however, is to ensure the safe and quality life of Europeans and Europeans. For quality of life and safety, two ends of the same objective are mutually reinforcing. The European response is mainly embedded in the Lisbon Strategy and the Justice and Home Affairs Package. In the area of the Lisbon Strategy, the next 18 months will be devoted to implementing and deepening the reforms covered by its second three-year cycle in March. The new guidelines we endorsed in March this year also define the direction of reforms for Slovenia. At a recent visit to the European Commission, we received a lot of recognition as regards: firstly, reducing administrative barriers, secondly, preparing a support environment for small and medium-sized enterprises and thirdly, involving stakeholders in the preparation of reforms. In the future, more attention will have to be paid to the sustainability of public finances and to policy reforms in the labour market, particularly when it comes to involving young people and so-called flexicurity. The traditional four pillars of the Lisbon Strategy remain the same during this 18-month period. It is about promoting innovation and creativity, promoting entrepreneurship, caring for people and caring for the environment. In particular, we will strive to continue the processes and programmes on which we built as Presidents in the European Union. At the same time with the European partners, we will also consider the continuation of the reform process after 2010, as indicated by the March European Council. We will take care of the smooth progress of the Ljubljana process and the construction of the European Research Area. The Fifth Freedom must become more and more reality at this time. It is not acceptable that only 3% of R & D participants operate beyond national borders and that many beneficial innovations do not face market transformation. We will endeavour to attract the private sector, both small and medium-sized, as well as multinational companies, which, in the vast majority of cases, provide the most advanced knowledge. In this context, we support programmes that establish public-private partnerships, as well as joint technological initiatives and the European Institute of Technology. In the field of research and development, Slovenia will also promote an educational aspect. We will work for more innovation and creativity within the framework of the European Union's strategic programme on education and training. One of our leading interests remains, as already mentioned, also the Galileo satellite-navigation project, the efforts to obtain the seat of the supervisory authority are ongoing and are being guided by a working group to this end. Small and medium-sized enterprises will remain high on the agenda. We will support the adoption of acts that create a favourable entrepreneurial climate for them, including for small businesses, an initiative for better regulation, protection of intellectual property rights and the development of leading markets. At the same time, we will seek to build the internal market as soon as possible. It is time for services to be rounded up in the European Union as they represent 75 per cent of the European Union's gross domestic product and employ 70 per cent of the workforce. We will participate in the debate on the renewed Social Agenda presented by the European Commission on 2 July. We will strive for a secure but flexible labour market and a balanced solution in the legislative proposal on patients' rights in cross-border protection. In the fight against climate change, our objective remains clear: to adopt an agreement on an energy climate package between the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament by April at the latest. At global level, however, there is a post-Kyoto agreement in Copenhagen in December. The adoption of an agreement on the internal gas and electricity market and the examination of security of energy supply in the second strategic energy review will also be crucial. The ever-intensive opening of the European Union to the world will also require enhanced security measures, which will not lead to protectionism. We support the preparations of the European Union for the next multi-annual strategy to establish an area of freedom, security and justice. At the same time, we will be particularly active in implementing the Hague Programme measures and in preparing for the development of the second generation information system. The third pillar of the 18-month programme is the active role of the European Union in the global world. In the 21st century, the world became increasingly dense and interdependent, while the world population needed millions of years to reach the first billion in 1840, according to the UN estimates, it only took 123 years for the second, 33 for the third, 14 for the fourth, 5 13 for the second, and 6 12. Despite the relatively slowing down of demographic growth, we are projected to be 9 billion by 2050 on the planet. It is appropriate for the European Union to increase its activities and solidarity externally if it is to maintain the quality and safety of life on the inside. This is not just about taking into account the specific interests of our global partners, it is about identifying and defending the general interest, protecting people from poverty, terrorism and the consequences of climate change. Slovenia will focus on strengthening the European Neighbourhood Policy on the basis of new Union initiatives for the Mediterranean and the judicial partnership in its familiar relations with the European Union. Negotiations with the Russian Federation on a new partnership agreement, where we have great credit for the breakthrough ourselves, will also be crucial. We will support the further strengthening of European partnerships with the US, Japan, China, India, ASEAN and Latin American countries, the resolution of the crisis in the Middle East and the in-depth cooperation with international organisations. We will strive for the further development of European security and defence policy, for greater coherence of development policies and for the gradual liberalisation of global trade. On the basis of these key guidelines, the annex to the declaration also sets out priorities for the work of the Council of the European Union. This is the final position of Slovenia on individual proposals, which are contained in three basic European documents. In the 18-month programme of the Presidency of France, the Czech Republic and Sweden, representing the current trio, in the Commission's 2008 legislative work programme and the 2009 annual policy strategy. The proposed positions form a broader framework within which specific emphasis can be drawn on the day-to-day work in the institutions of the European Union. Confirmation of the declaration and priorities is a necessary step towards our main objective in this work, namely a clear, transparent and uniform policy in the field of European affairs, understandable and effective both for the wider Slovenian public and for the European public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The President of the European Affairs Committee or of the European Union, Comrade Anton Kokalj, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u193	Dear Mr. President of the Government. The Honorable Council of Ministers. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The introductory presentation of the proposal for a declaration was prepared by Mrs Barbra Borota, State Secretary of the Ministry of European Affairs, who pointed out that it was already the fifth consecutive declaration. This declaration, like the last one, has been prepared for a period of 18 months. The system is adapted to new circumstances and is a long-term continuity. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee asked the representatives of the Government a few questions and made their comments. Mr Majda Shirca, a member of the Committee, asked what the current situation of the Galileo project was and what opportunities Slovenia has for the seat of the supervisory authority. In addition, she was interested in the European Commission's proposal on the current regulation of reduced value added tax rates, in particular as regards restaurant services and housing for the market and the renewal of cultural monuments. Minister of Transport Radovan Žerjav replied to the first question that the Galileo project was very successful and that Slovenia had made an intensive effort during its presidency to establish the seat of the supervisory authority in Slovenia. We will also insist in this regard on the agreement that the new headquarters of the bodies and institutions should be in the new Member States of the European Union. Mr Mitja Mauko of the Ministry of Finance replied to the second question that the European Commission's proposal for the most urgent changes to the regulation of reduced VAT rates also includes the inclusion of restaurant services and housing services for the market. With regard to investments in the reconstruction of cultural monuments, he explained that there is a general investment in cultural heritage. This is against a wide range of services. He stressed, however, that the legislative proposal would also be presented to the Committee on European Union Affairs when it was up to date. As Chairman of the Committee, I have pointed out that the previous declaration due to the Presidency of Slovenia was adopted by the Council of the European Union on a proposal from the Government for a period of 18 months, but it has not been agreed that it will continue to do so. I also pointed out that a declaration adopted for a period of 18 months might make it impossible to discuss the content of the plenary session in the new mandate, which would not be in accordance with the law. I have proposed an amendment which would call on the Government to supplement the proposal for a declaration, in accordance with the Commission's 2009 legislative and work programme, in accordance with the law and the rules of procedure, when this programme is adopted. Article 154f of the Rules of Procedure explicitly states that the basis for the proposal for a declaration is the adoption of the European Commission's legislative programme, adopted as the first third of the proposed programme, but not yet for the last two-thirds of 2009. Mrs Borota stressed that she is the very advocate of efficiency and pragmatic approach; the declaration is only a political framework and must be flexible; otherwise, the Government regularly attends the meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs and other committees, where it represents views, so she sees no problem here, and the Government opposes the amendments. Member of the Committee of Mags. Tomaž Štebe warned that he disagreed with the amendment because he expected that if the declaration adopted would no longer be valid, the Government would complement and report to the National Assembly. After the discussion was closed, a vote was taken on the amendment mentioned above, but was not adopted. The presentation of the opinion of the National Council followed a proposal for an amendment to the Health Committee, which the Committee did not wish to adopt as its amendment. As no amendment of the Committee on European Union Affairs to the National Assembly of the European Union has been adopted on the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period July 2008 - December 2009 as part of the proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Jerovšek, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Respectable. At yesterday's 97th urgent meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, introduced the proposal for a declaration. He pointed out that it was prepared on the basis of the 18-month programme of the chairmanship of the Tria - France, Sweden and the Czech Republic. These countries have identified the following areas as key: Union development, Union measures for long-term quality of life and the security of citizens, and the Union's global role in the global world. Regarding the development of the Union, he said that enlargement policy should remain one of the priorities of the European Union, particularly in the case of the European perspective of the Western Balkan countries. Slovenia will also work towards a successful continuation of accession negotiations with Croatia and Turkey, of course with respect for and implementation of European legislation. Slovenia will also endeavour to set a date for the start of negotiations with Macedonia as soon as possible and an agreement will have to be reached with Greece. As in the Slovenian Presidency, the Council of the European Union will continue its efforts to strengthen its European Neighbourhood Policy and to build relations with partner countries. In doing so, it will support the strengthening of bilateral and multilateral cooperation, both in the Eastern and Southern regions of the European Neighbourhood Policy. Then, as a direct contribution from Slovenia, Minister Rupel specifically highlighted the establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University, based in Piran, whose ceremony was held in June this year. Slovenia, like the European Union, will also support the further development of relations with strategic countries and regions. In line with the mandate granted during the Slovenian Presidency, negotiations will be launched in the future to harmonise the new agreement between the European Union and the Russian Federation. Special attention will be given to strengthening strategic transatlantic cooperation, strengthening relations with other strategic partners such as Japan, China, India, ASEAN, Latin American countries and the African Union. Slovenia will work towards a solution to the Middle East crisis, will continue its two-track policy on Iran, as on the one hand the European Union is working towards a diplomatic solution and, on the other hand, has adopted these sanctions together with other countries due to developments in the development of Iran's nuclear programme. Slovenia will continue its efforts to strengthen cooperation between the European Union and international organisations, in particular with the United Nations and NATO. Together with its partners, it will work to strengthen rules and implement the multilateral trading system, focusing on the needs of developing countries. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Defence Committee, which considered the proposal for a declaration to be the working body of the mother and the opinion of the Commission on international relations and European affairs of the Council of State. In the short discussion that followed, the chairman of the Committee asked whether it had recently taken place within the European Union to agree on the participation of senior representatives of the Member States of the Union in the opening of the Beijing Olympic Games, in particular in the light of the initial restraint. In doing so, he highlighted the case of France in particular. He added that it might be worth considering in the future that the declaration would be prepared in a form similar to the starting points for participation in meetings of the General Affairs and External Relations Council and would be crystallised separately. Minister Rupel replied that the participation of high-level statesmen in the Olympic Games is a matter of reflection and policy, which should be followed up. He said that France wanted to, dialogue with the Dalai Lama and Tibet or to promote dialogue between the Dalai Lama and the Chinese leadership, and also wanted to maintain relations with China at a high level. After voting on the proposal for a declaration, a member of the Committee, Mr Školč, expressed his opinion on the non-necessary treatment of this item at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The Chairman of the Committee opposed such a proposal and explained that the National Assembly should consider the proposal for a declaration in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 5 of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union. In the short debate that followed, members of the Committee Branko Grims and Milenko Ziherl also opposed this proposal. As no amendment has been adopted to the proposal for a declaration, the Committee on Foreign Policy has proposed to the National Assembly that the declaration be adopted in the form submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u196	Comrade Jerovšek, thank you very much. The report was extremely interesting. We are moving on to a presentation on the position of the parliamentary groups. Comrade Jerovšek, I invite you to speak again on behalf of the SDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I must say that you are aware that the reports are prepared by the professional services and that they must reflect the meetings of the committee. Your Honor! This time, the proposal for a declaration on the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union is already the fifth in line and represents a general starting point and a key policy direction for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union for the following year and a half. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware that, following the Presidency of the European Union, Slovenia is entering a strengthened period of cooperation in the institutions of the European Union. The successful Presidency brings Slovenia, as a member of the Union, a new weight which must be renewed in the institutions of the European Union both for the common European interests and, in particular, for the representation of Slovenian interests during this period. The knowledge and experience gained during the Presidency must also be used by the Slovenian public administration. There is today a relatively broad political consensus in the European Union on the Union's policies to successfully address the challenges it faces. In our opinion, these challenges are also well reflected by this time the proposal for a declaration, which reflects the 18-month programme of the Presidency of France, the Czech Republic and Sweden. The purpose of the declaration is not only to contribute to Slovenia's clear and transparent policy in European matters, but also to inform the general public of the open issues faced by the Union and Slovenia as its Member State, and to encourage timely debate in order to achieve as much as possible the Slovenian national interests and at the same time contribute to the common European objectives. The proposal for a declaration highlights three key areas for strategic and also for Slovenia: Union development, Union action on long-term quality of life and security, and the active role of the Union in the global world. In our Group of Members, we are aware of the crucial importance of the continued fate of the Treaty of Lisbon and of the related institutional reforms and of the question of enlargement, particularly in the fact that some countries consider the implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon a prerequisite for enlargement. Slovenia succeeded in returning the Western Balkans as a priority during its Presidency, establishing a network of Stabilisation - Submission Agreements, which is a good basis for the perspective of the countries of the region and for the further enlargement of the Union. This also extends the area of peace, stability, prosperity, democracy, human rights and the rule of law. In our view, Slovenia has made significant progress during the presidency in addressing climate, energy issues and it is right that it will be active in the future in this area. We therefore agree that an agreement should be reached for the adoption of the climate-energy package before the end of the European Parliament's mandate. Slovenia also launched a new three-year cycle of the renewed Lisbon strategy during the presidency, which will be at the heart of Union policy in the future. In this context, it is important for us to be concerned about more quality jobs, especially for young people, for faster economic growth, to promote the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, Slovenia should continue its efforts to implement and deepen reforms in this direction. Slovenia must also be very active in the future in the areas of education and training, promoting innovation and creativity, as these are key factors in supporting the competitiveness of the economy, sustainable development and social cohesion. Since 2009 is the year of innovation and creativity, it is important that we are actively involved in the programmes involved. We must strive to ensure that the achievement of our Presidency, the so-called Ljubljana Process, which envisions the creation of a European Research Area, is properly implemented and that it will actually come to life. It is with the recent establishment of the Euro-Mediterranean University in Piran that Slovenia has achieved significant success and has made a significant contribution both in the areas of education, research and intercultural dialogue. We also stress the continued efforts to obtain the seat of Galileo's supervisory authority, which Slovenia is certainly most entitled to. We support guidance on macroeconomic issues, where the issue of financial stability and sustainability of public finances falls. For us, the area of competitiveness and the creation of an internal market is also extremely important, where further liberalisation and more transparent legislation must be pursued. The area of asylum, legal and illegal migration, visa policy, external border management and the fight against terrorism are also important issues for the EU and in our opinion also for Slovenia. In this context, the introduction of the Schengen SIZ 2 information system is particularly important within the agreed deadline. We are aware of the importance of the EU's role at the global stage and therefore support the Slovenian position to strengthen the European Neighbourhood Policy, both in the form of the Union for the Mediterranean and the so-called Eastern Dimension. We see particular importance in strengthening the transatlantic alliance and strategic partnership with Russia, as the Council of the European Union was able to confirm the negotiating mandate for a new agreement with Russia during the Slovenian Presidency. This success of the Slovenian Presidency must also be stressed in the future by Slovenia and thus strengthen its international position. Our view is that the European Union needs to be more aware of the challenges posed by the growing impact of new global actors such as China and India in the future, and therefore the greatest progress in the implementation of the common foreign and security policy is important, since it is only in this way that the European Union will be able to play an important and essential role in solving the crises in the Middle East, Central Asia, Africa and elsewhere. Your Honor! Slovenia has proved by its Presidency that it is an equal partner in Europe and in the world. As a full member of the Union, it is committed to European values and objectives and, therefore, this time, the proposal for a declaration is also defined up to all key and current themes or policies of the Union. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the guidelines proposed by the proposed declaration and the definition of priorities in the institutions of the European Union are good, as they do not only reflect the key challenges and policies but also reflect the other orientations of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Proposal for a Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic in the Institutions of the European Union in the period July 2008 - December 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u198	Thank you, too. Mr Lovtijar Bebler will present the position of the DS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the Group of the Social Democrats, unfortunately, we also note from this consideration of the proposal for a declaration that he came to the House of State late and therefore could not receive sufficient attention and more thorough treatment. Obviously, it has also been formally dealt with in individual home work bodies, and we have only dealt with it yesterday in the Committee on European Union Affairs, i.e. on the day of formal parliamentary holidays. This time, too, it has been shown that the Government does not expect and is not interested in obtaining any useful suggestions and proposals from the National Assembly. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, the representatives of the Government and most of the coalition Members were not prepared to adopt a modest proposal by the president of this Committee to complete the declaration with this plan later, once a more detailed legislative plan of the European Commission is known. Thus this time, the declaration remains a collection of some very broad and general guidelines, a collection of wishes, a set of meetings of informers of these meetings within the institutions of the European Union, and a more exceptional one of the departments of which is the clear and concrete orientation of Slovenia. This applies in particular to those departments or dossiers which are not difficult in the sense that Member States have very different views and would be far apart from each other in these views. Otherwise, it is clear that, for example, it is not disputed that the European Union must ensure a sustainable and rapid response to global challenges such as climate change, energy supply, competitiveness in global economic relations and concerted action in international relations. It is also clear that the European Union will continue to contribute to addressing the emigration and demographic challenges, to combating poverty, to combating new pandemics and to curb rising food and oil prices. And there are a number of other reviews that Slovenia supports and will definitely participate in this. But in what direction will we look for these solutions and with what instruments, there is generally no answer to this question. The government in this proposal says what are the key and strategic issues for Slovenia during this 18-month period. These are the development of the Union, Union measures for long-term quality of life and security and the active role of the Union in the global world. Of course, this should be agreed upon. As for the development of the Union, for example, it is complicated. It is said that if ratification procedures for all Member States are completed, Slovenia will also participate in the preparatory work for the smooth implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon. As at the time of our presidency, there was no plan B for the failure of the referendum in Ireland and we were surprised by this outcome, nor is the situation much clearer now. There are even more things that would apply in this place, but let me conclude that, while such a comprehensive and general declaration is of little use, it will also make it easier for the new government to start work. Again, it must be stressed that there is a certain deficit in the quality of the government and the National Assembly's cooperation in European Union matters. Important materials of the government come to the National Assembly in general too late. As a rule, it is not possible to have an in-depth debate on them. Committees and the so-called Grand Committee of the National Assembly are often visited by incompetent and unauthorized government representatives. The fact that meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs are normally closed to the public also contributes to the insufficient quality of the debate. Therefore, a higher quality of this cooperation should be ensured in the future and meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs should, as a rule, be open to the public. Otherwise, in the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues, representatives of the Government, secretaries, ministers. The declaration is, of course, some positive things with a focus on what we want in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia for our wider country - no doubt it is successful and that in this wide community it will also be successful and satisfied with the lives of our citizens and citizens. But if we want to move on, then we need to know where we are now and no doubt pour ourselves some pure wine. For starters, the European Union is, according to our Foreign Minister, Dr Dimitri Ruple, in good condition, an excellent condition. The French, who have taken after us, are more realistic and moderate and the French foreign minister finds that Europe is in an average state and so is probably right and so is true. We'll be wondering why. The European Union has long been, some say, for example, in the last 15 years, very busy with itself. To date, this process has gone through four intergovernmental conferences, two enlargements have occurred, the largest in 2004, when as many as 10 new countries entered the package, among them extremely large differences, especially when compared with the old members, and the last, according to some, rather quickly and according to others, Bulgaria and Romania entered too quickly. In this process, we have faced issues of effective, democratic, more open action and the aim in particular was to reduce the differences between the members and the gap between the institutions of the European Union and European citizens. In view of the fact that it has been much easier, much more effective than today, when the European Community has 27 Member States, when Europe has been without us, only 15 of us, until the last two enlargements. It is noted that there is growing dissatisfaction with the functioning of the European Union and with its policies and decision-making processes at European Union level. This is undoubtedly linked to the increasingly obvious differences between some old and new members, to the gap between European citizens and political elites in the EU and to the unanimity of Member States, in what direction of deepening, particularly institutional, with the aim of greater and supranational traces of the EU at all. The first problems have already arisen in previous largely unfinished intergovernmental conferences, first of all in the Nice Treaty, whose ratification has been a prerequisite for the largest EU enlargement to date. At that time, for example, as interesting, the referendum contract was rejected by Ireland. The EU’s biggest blow was the rejection of a constitutional treaty in the Netherlands and France. For a while, it seemed that the EU would not find a way out of the crisis. Some view this as the biggest institutional crisis in EU history. When a major breakthrough of the status quo was reached during the German presidency, which led to the new Treaty of Lisbon, it was during the presidency of Slovenia that it was re-imposed in ratifications, this time in Ireland. Of course, we are not to hide it, but we have a right to ask ourselves why. Probably because European leaders have been dealing with themselves again, or what is acceptable to each Member State, and what they would like, in particular, who will occupy high places in the institutions and bodies of the EU and not by seeking answers and action on current events in the world that affect every European citizen. This is of particular interest to see where or how far we are from the promised prosperity, where the benefits and benefits of EU membership are to others such as the US, China, India and more. It is a question to which the Union is questionable whether it responds too late or does not have a strategy, it is said that it is not within its competence, or whether the leaders of the Member States are difficult to agree with each other, let alone to find a unified position in Europe, which we would certainly benefit from in the face of other rulers in the world. As long as national interests prevail over common objectives in the EU, the annual adoption of the declaration of action in institutions is merely a record of ambitious objectives to which each Member State should be able to help the EU as a whole once-in-a-lifetime, and we hope that in the near future, a credible and decisive global actor in the international community. This will undoubtedly only when Member States or their leaders are able to answer the question of what is best for the EU as a whole and not what is appropriate for each EU country. Accordingly, it is necessary to act and seek measures and answers to the current questions and problems facing this Council. It is interesting what Schuman and Monnet had in mind as the founding members of the EU predecessor, the construction of a new Europe through a genuine transnational regime, which in the first place requires the abandonment of a part of sovereignty, or in a limited part, but in a key area or in areas where the decision is taken, but in particular no exceptions to individual members. For both of us or for the predecessor of the future Union, the project was mainly political and not so economic. While economic integration is almost fully achieved, there is still no concrete progress or decisive step in political integration, nor in the Treaty of Lisbon, which the Irish made very clear at the referendum at the time of the Slovenian Presidency. However, once again it must be said that there is no fault of Slovenia in any way and nowhere, but it is also probably about the self-esteem or probably the egotistic interests of each country. However, we and all of us European citizens can only hope that European leaders will one day be able to achieve enough courage and determination, as the founding fathers did in setting up the European Union's predecessor, in order to achieve all the common goals, this is a united, economically and politically successful united Europe. And we want, fight for, and support such a Europe in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, so we support and wish for the happiness and many work achievements of this European declaration as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kokalj will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u203	Hello again, everyone. The Declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period July 2008 - December 2009 is divided into three priority objectives, which are further elaborated in the form of priorities for work in the Council of the European Union during the period July 2008 - December 2009. The Declaration fully contains a combination of a summary of Slovenia's situation in the European Union, lists about 300 different documents, which are either current or are expected to be up to date and in relation to some of Slovenia's guidelines. In many parts, it refers to the proposals of the European Commission in terms of supporting and implementing these proposals, while in other areas it refers to expectations of proposals that cannot yet be taken. The chapter on Union development, the basis for effectiveness, provides a clear basis for enlargement in the area of the new Lisbon Treaty in the event that all ratification procedures in all Member States are completed. However, there is nowhere to see Slovenia's direction in the event that this will not happen, which is a possible scenario. With regard to the enlargement of the European Union, a relatively volatile position has been identified with regard to support for the approximation of the Western Balkan countries mainly with regard to Macedonia. Here it might suggest to be a little more active and clearer with regard to Slovenia's efforts to give Macedonia a date to start negotiations by the end of 2008. In support of the further enlargement of the euro area, in addition to the principle of support for a lack of clearer guidance towards legislative initiatives, which are yet to be expected from the European Commission. In the chapter of the Union's measures on long-term quality of life and security, it is impossible in the field of climate change to understand Slovenia's orientations towards legislative acts that are yet to be expected by the European Commission on the basis of a White Paper in 2009. In the area of competitiveness, the European Commission is expected to present in 2009 a number of new proposals for rapid legislative action and proposals for simplification. The basic position to support the simplification of legislation is not enough to cooperate effectively and actively in creating views on concrete content. These are just a few examples that show that a substantial part of the declaration is based on the envisaged acts to be proposed by the European Commission in 2009 and will be known in substance by the end of 2008. It would be a pity that, after a well-managed presidency and thus the most active level of action in the institutions of the European Union, they would not maintain a condition and would not continue to have an effective impact on decisions affecting each of us in favour of Slovenia and the whole of the European Union. If I mention only a few specifics: working time, value added tax, final phase also requirements for insulation materials in the construction of our houses, requirements for the characteristics of the passenger cars we are driving with, and could also be listed. More impact on these decisions and thus the exercise of our and common interests can only be maintained by Slovenia with greater synergy of all levels in the country, including greater and more timely integration of the National Assembly into the preparation and treatment of views. In doing so, the New Slovenia Group also wants stronger and more active support for parliamentary work in European Union matters by other parliamentary groups. New Slovenia, the Christian People's Party will support the declaration. In terms of clearer guidance, it would be good to supplement the declaration with guidance when the European Commission's legislative programme for 2009 is adopted, so we are already giving the Group an initiative to the new government, the future government, to come to the National Assembly in a new mandate by supplementing the declaration, thereby ensuring that the procedure that we say is the Queen of Democracy is respected, thus ensuring the continued good and quality of Slovenia's work in the institutions of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, colleague Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u205	Thank you for your word, Madam President! I would like to ask you politely as the one who holds the meeting, I have before me a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union. And it says right on the front page, who's all going to participate in the meeting of the National Assembly and the sessions of the working bodies. It seems to me that I do not see any of those who are written here when I listen to the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. The National Assembly has adapted this extraordinary meeting of the Government, the President of the Government for his time. Today we are at both points on which we are here today because of him, not because of ourselves, and also the citing is not the Government, but the biggest government party, it is not even five minutes, it comes, it says and goes. The same goes for other ministers, they even signal each other when they meet outside. I find it unacceptable, I find it disrespectful of the Members and Members. And if it were in the power of the Rules of Procedure, I would even suggest that the National Assembly proceed with the discharge of the President of the Government, because 90 Members are adapting to his timetable, his time, we will demand his answers and he is not. I must say that what I see here in front of me by the government is not enough to get concrete answers as to what Slovenia really wants in the 18-month period in the European Union, it seems unacceptable to me. This is a mockery from the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. Comrade Zagorac, within your procedural proposal, I have tracked down more content. The first is that the National Assembly should start with a procedure for the termination of the mandate of the President of the Government, the second in order to have several more ministers present, which I believe would be appropriate and reflect the Government's culture. And your third procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u207	Yeah. Unless we assure Members and you, as chairman of this meeting of ministers, to suspend the meeting so long as they agree on what they have or will adapt once again to their time when they will have it so much that they will all be here and listen to what we have to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u208	Thank you very much. If such a procedural proposal comes from any other parliamentary group, I will put it to the vote. I hope this is what I've been doing to your content. Thank you. The text is given by colleague Jakob Presečnik, presentation of the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! The proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union in the period July 2008 - December 2009 presents important topics both for the EU and for Slovenia as a whole. The enlargement of the Union, in particular in the Western Balkans, is of great importance to Slovenia, as it currently constitutes a border between the EU and the Western Balkan market. Enlargement will have a positive impact on the economy and it is therefore important for Slovenia to support the integration of these countries. Union action on long-term quality of life and security is also of great importance. Some of the topics are particularly topical. The area of freedom, security and justice, in relation to civil protection, may be highlighted. As we can see from the proposal, this autumn we expect a second Communication from the European Commission on strengthening the Union's disaster response capacity, in which proposals are to be made to regulate the prevention and better integration of all phases of disaster management. This topic can be one of the priorities, as the recent storms that have raged both across Slovenia and across other Member States and potential Member States have caused enormous damage. This is also linked to the area of integrated climate and energy policy, in terms of climate change. It is important to adopt as soon as possible the climate energy package, which foresees a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. The Galileo project is one of the most important projects that pose the biggest technological challenge for the EU so far, which is important for the provision of its own satellite navigation system, while at the same time promoting or improving the European industry in this area. Slovenia, as one of the 11 EU Member States, is competing for the seat of the supervisory authority under this project. The active role of the Union in the global world is also important. In this context, Slovenia encourages the further strengthening of the European Neighbourhood Policy and the upgrading of relations with partner countries within a single and comprehensive political framework. In the context of external relations, EU-US efforts for a visa-free regime are one of the most important tasks and it is also important to abolish visas for Canada for all EU Member States. As a result of the process of globalisation, the gradual liberalisation of world trade and its strengthening are of great importance to all, and the coherence of development policies is therefore important, thus contributing to a better achievement of development objectives. In all of this, common trade policy has an important role to play, which must be designed as best as possible. For Slovenia, active cooperation and efforts are essential to establish rules that will ensure the proper use of officially supported export credits, harmonise national export credit systems and promote competition between exporters. The proposal for a declaration on guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the institutions of the European Union during the period July 2008 - December 2009 is well founded and addresses all important areas and provides an appropriate starting point for further discussion, so we will support this proposal in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u210	Mr Zares will present the position of Ambassador Majda Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The report on the presidency of Slovenia lasted about 5 hours. It was programmed for five hours. Only the declaration will be dealt with or should be dealt with for 3 hours. The government has taken 20 minutes for a declaration, that is to say to study the presentations and to discuss the fundamental strategic orientations in the next 18 months, the European Union and the co-forming of Slovenia. Mr Janša spoke for a little less than 20 minutes, the report on the presidency was extended to one hour under the government's timetable. What is more important: to talk about what we have been doing or to talk about what we are going to do or to participate in these guidelines, as we are now set up, especially in what way? Everybody's just going through this discussion. You're all whispering a few things. Some of them are asleep. A little fun, anecdotes. [[...]] But these are fundamental guidelines that not only touch members, but also touch us, our roles, and above all how we will achieve these goals and whether we are interested. The SDS took 70 minutes for the report, which is said to be a celebration and for all the graphics of the internal political situations, while, for the declaration, it claimed that 30 minutes had been taken to study some strategic objectives if it needed them at all. This discussion would need more breath, it does not make sense to deal with it within an extraordinary session. I would certainly need a broader discussion, more time, more attention and more in-depth thinking. When preparing this document, did the government ask civil society what it thought, what does it have to do with, say, the energy changes that are now agreed and united in this declaration, to enlargement, to energy supply, to climate change? Did she only remember that Europe will share fruit and apples in schools? Was there any discussion of our common fates and fates, but certainly strategic discussions, goals, and orientations? Above all, how will these goals, which are written here and by which we all agree or agree, be pursued in what way? Will Slovenia respect the power of large countries and remove its head as it does many times? Members of the Committee on the European Union are just experiencing this, and others are seeing it. Will she be more aggressive, or will she have stronger lobbyist grips, or will she invest more power to do so? After all, will the National Assembly also take more seriously into future overall policymaking, attitudes, relations, objectives and agendas than now that the meetings are closed? And because they are not spectacular, even more or less they are not interested in anything, including Members and Members of Parliament. Clearly, these meetings need to be opened where, above all, certain topics can be put not only on the Committee on European Affairs, but also on other committees, which, as it is said in the current term, have not touched on key decisions, which then, in turn or in any way, will always come back to their own country. In short, the exclusion of civil dialogue, the professional population in the key orientations of Slovenia and its role in its value concepts, the ways in which it will achieve these concepts is inappropriate, and it is also underestimating when all more or less are waiting for this point to end, because it is necessary to bring it through for the last second. It seems to me that there are not so many questions about the objectives in these guidelines, I am talking about the discussions that we have had together, but that there are also great questions about how to reach them or how to achieve them. Let me give, for example, one question that we have already discussed on behalf of the parties, indeed, within the parental committee. The European Union is preparing for a different value added tax regime or proposing the most urgent changes to reduced rates. We know that evaluation or research is being prepared, perhaps already completed, to find the best possible answers for a simple, uncomplicated, efficient and uniform form of taxation. However, these documents show that certain discounts or lower rates will be applied, including restaurant services and housing services for the market. Even for the market. We wonder where they are or how Slovenia has identified itself to those proposals that have come to the table and have gone further than just housing, but some European Union countries, those that hope a little more and do not always nod to large countries, have also proposed a solution to lower rates or to facilitate investment in the reconstruction of cultural monuments. Now it's gone. Slovenia, by the way, objected. Why did Slovenia oppose lower taxes for investing in the restoration of the monumental and cultural heritage when it has the most problems in this area and when one monument has been restoring for 25 years? From these documents, for example, we do not understand why Slovenia does not go in the same direction as it does. There's no answer here. And why does it agree to give the sacramental objects yes, there to give reliefs, but not to other cultural monuments. Sort of. These are issues that are worth discussing and that should be shared today by this omit if it were to think or consider declarations as meaningful or as effective as it would have been. Now we are all nodding to those principled definitions that are, of course, meaningful in principle. After all, we really support the objectives of better regulation of climate, energy conditions, but we ask ourselves how Slovenia will be in the next 18 months or tomorrow, or even today, or how it reacted yesterday to the solutions of the migration repression measures allowed by Italy. What did Slovenia say about this? What did Slovenia say to the new Berlusconi role within migration, literally unacceptable to our vision or to the sight of Zares, unacceptable fingerprint counts? What did Slovenia say about this? By thus defending human rights, security and, of course, protecting a specific migration policy that would not endanger human rights. These are questions that I think would be, I don’t think, I’m sure, or I’m sure that it’s reasonable to dissipate them in the National Assembly. But the National Assembly and, as a result, the general public simply remain silent about them because they are pushed into some elite ghetto of certain people and do not experience any evaluations, critical assessments within the space that should be touched. Of course, we agree, if I continue, with Slovenia's efforts to obtain the seat of Galileo's supervisory authority. These efforts are long and this commitment to reach this seat must be so much greater for Slovenia, because at the expense of this seat we gave up one other seat, seat for office or center or institute for the same possibilities, which then slipped from under our fingers because we wanted or saw each other in this project. Indeed, we are not even in closed sessions, where there are more options for discussion and where information that may be premature for the public can be leaked on the open stage. What mechanisms does Slovenia use to secure this seat or what routes in this direction? As regards questions in the cultural field, culture and audiovisual policy. In fact, culture has the same or very similar themes from one declaration or from one mandate to another. It is true that in the future we should focus more on security on the Internet, security of access to prohibited or useless or harmful content especially for young people and children. But other more daring and in the world currently very topical and problematic issues are not on the agenda. Safer internet plus, okay, we don't know, we don't know what kind of tools Europe is getting into in such a complex, problematic area as protecting access to information flows, but when we know that the network is so uncontrollable. What will Slovenia do about it? What does he do in his own home space? They are known, and yet they may be complemented or enriched, or Slovenia will be forced to speak more only on the subject that it has invented, as I have said before today, when the French President, in his sometimes rather wicked, certainly obnoxious and oblivious, has highlighted ways of co-financing or financing public RTV, which is problematic for him or for the country, as well as for ours. But even in the extra material, I am not just talking about this narrower text, which binds to declarations, there are no approaches, there are no obvious views. And when you're either going to or we're going to meet materials within the parental board in the coming term, how we're going to meet, we know, with our left hand. The Committee rarely, I repeat, comes to the most important representatives of the ministry, the positions are very narrow and strictly summarised, the ways and tools of the services negotiating, the possible alternatives they introduce in certain specific cases are more or less unknown. I certainly think that more energy, more lobbying, more power and more renewal will be needed in the future, after all, even in the current Presidency outside and in the country itself, in Slovenia, because otherwise we will still feel that Europe is far away and that we are not co-creating it, we are not co-forming its policy. And what is even worse is that in this way we will be more subdued by the powers of the great forces, which are becoming perhaps too or more merciless in making decisions, because others are too obedient and submissive. As I say, the text in the key directions, of course, is not to be rejected, it makes sense. Europe is going, we are going in a direction, in what way, we need to think, especially if we put climate change first and the issue of energy and enlargement. But it is necessary to be aware that ways to approach answers and how to form answers and find answers are not enough. But it's true that we had quite a bit of time to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Žnidaršič will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u213	Dear Presidents, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed declaration sets out the key orientations and frameworks for the formation of Slovenia's views on the common European policy and on the functioning of the European Union institutions. We do not have significant comments on the guidelines given, although some felt that they were too framed and wide-ranging. On the contrary, we think this is a good thing, because it is possible, when this is to be done, to adapt many things to the current needs and, of course, expectations by the profession. In our opinion, attention in this declaration must be paid to two chapters, which we believe are valuable and necessary to deal thoroughly with because of the greater sensitivity of the area, due to the unfavourable demographic and inflational trends that have marked the European Union as a whole over the past period. This is the area of achieving the objectives of employment and social policy set out in the Lisbon Strategy, where we fear that instead of flying into calmer and safer waters straight into the flood, there is an even greater social crisis, an increase in the numbers of people living below the poverty threshold, an even greater social dispersion and an even more unsettling and unstable living conditions for younger generations. We fear that Europe has taken advantage of the possibility of a positive correlation between the competitiveness of the economy with employment and social security, only in the light of the secure flexibility of the field of labour law in terms of employers. Regrettably, she has forgotten the respect and promise of greater possibilities for effective coordination of professional life with family life and more favourable housing policies. The question, therefore, that arises is whether the prevailing mental orientation in terms of the neoliberal variant, which follows only the interest of increasing capital, foresees all the consequences of the social dimension, which is felt in the first place by the most burdensome generation of working people. The DeSUS Members are afraid that such euphoric and optimistic follow-up to such concepts has overlooked the social dimension of the evaluation of life. In doing so, it forgets the dependence of two generations on the working population, the younger generation, which is at the stage of education, the educational process and immediately upon its conclusion largely financially dependent on their parents, and the pensioners whose income is guaranteed from today's labour productivity. A fundamental consideration of the future debate on the renewed social agenda, we believe, should include an intergenerational approach to addressing demographic issues, which have serious implications for the functioning of pension systems as well as health and social protection or insurance, and thus undoubtedly important decisions for the stability of public finances. Social policy at the common European and individual national levels must act as a productive factor; it must strengthen employment and employment, with greater emphasis on the flexibility of the day on safety and employment continuity, including mechanisms that enable the coordination of professional and family obligations, ensuring effective social services of general interest and including those essential elements for curbing and reducing the incidence of poverty. According to our assessment, these are the priorities that we are obliged to engage in the economic performance of the European Union in our efforts to preserve social and fair Europe, as we see the basis for sustained and stable economic growth also in the well-being and balanced material and spiritual development of all generations and of all the social strata of the population within social peace. If we do not take this seriously and in this sense we will not fight for such a Europe that will also take social account, then the consequences will be worse than those expected by many, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and much more expensive than expected. [[...]] In doing so, I must also say that the period of Slovenia's great success in joining Euro-Atlantic connections has actually been exhausted. We have successfully conducted a referendum on entry. At that time, people supported each other in anticipation and, of course, in a well-known fact, that all the new Member States had progressed in the European Union and the standard had improved there. This also encouraged people to support the matter. We successfully entered NATO, then into the Union, then we became relatively quick candidates to lead the European Union, then we quickly stabilised public finances to the extent that we could enter the euro area. These are all positive movements. Then came favourable economic growth and "hey Slavi" - Slovenia is a successful country and can do a lot of shit, which of course is true. From now on, from here, when we have completed the successful presidency, which many praise, people will only start to ask this question: When will the moment come when we will live better because we have entered Europe? And now, in fact, we have problems and serious decisions about how we will represent our citizens, our country in decisions in the European Union, which may not always be friendly to us, despite the fact that we have applauded all things and we are also today for enlargement and we also support enlargement and, of course, Europe as such. I think that so far it has been relatively possible to maintain people's high support for European integration, because they have lived all the time in anticipation of starting the better. If it doesn't start, then the problems will be, as they started in Ireland, where economic growth is falling, where there are growing problems that have very quickly turned people's thinking in a negative direction, which has proved to be the case in the referendum on the Treaty on Europe. I expect ourselves to be able to protect our interests with common strengths, including by leaving more room for decision-making. Now our meetings were closed. It is not good for European affairs to be decided solely by policy. This one just doesn't know everything. And if we want to have something out of this in the future, and not only the net beneficiaries of European funds, but not just the net contributors, then we can support this declaration peacefully and we will do so today in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u214	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Members of Parliament! I sincerely hope that you will take my next performance in good faith, in the protection of the National Assembly, in the protection of the sovereign branch of power. What we are witnessing today, I'm sorry, but this is a disgrace to democracy. There are 13 members sitting in the Assembly Hall, three of whom are playing on the computer, one is playing on the nose, excuse me, three are in the middle, not one has listened specifically. But he didn't have anything to listen to. The first speakers for the presentation of the positions of the Group, and I will mention: colleague Jožef Jerovšek - read from the paper list, colleague of Darja Lovtišar Bebler - read from the paper list, colleague Borut Sayovic - read from the paper list. My friend Anton Kokalj read the paper. Or would it not have been for my friend Jacob the Presbyterian, I apologize that I would not have let him go, he read it from a sheet of paper. [[...]] Would it not be more reasonable to print one newsletter, not wasting time or those few representatives of the government, not ours, and in this way continue with the meeting of the National Assembly. In her ten-minute discussion, Shirtz's colleague, who was next, demanded communication. After requiring a discussion, she left the meeting of the National Assembly or the plenary session of the National Assembly. Representatives of the government, not a single minister is with us, once Mr Bayuk has joined us for a few minutes since I have been in charge of the session, that is from 6 p.m. on. To whom do we refer the words or reports written by consultants under a very important point, this is the Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU Institutions in the period 2008-2009? I sincerely hope you have taken my words well. I will not hold a meeting of the National Assembly until at least some ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia join us. If anyone doesn't like it, you know what your chances are for my replacement. I'll try to resume the session at 7:00 and 30 minutes. If there are no government representatives present and at least a few interested Members and Members of the National Assembly, then I will also set a half-hour break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u215	Dear Members and honourable Members! I'm calling off the session. We'll resume in two minutes. I ask all the Members and Members who are in the lobby to return to the Hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u216	We're continuing the meeting of the choir. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u217	Thank you for your words, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! The declaration means the obligation and obligation of the State of the Republic of Slovenia to a large EU country, in which we are of our own volition and of our own volition. The substance of this declaration is set out in the introduction in the second paragraph, which clearly states that, in addition to meeting the normative provisions, the Government wishes to contribute, for the first time, to Slovenia's clear and transparent policy in European matters, secondly, to inform the general public of the open issues, and thirdly, to encourage a timely debate in order to achieve as much as possible the Slovenian national interests. That's the point. There is a clear and transparent policy of Slovenia in this declaration. It is because everywhere it says what the EU is committed to, what the EU is going to do, what the EU is planning to do, that the commitment of this country, which, once again, I say, decided voluntarily to enter. Of course, it would be right that wherever the three tasks or orientations of the Republic of Slovenia are essential, this is the development of the Union, the Union's measures for the long-term quality of life and security and the role of the Union in the global world, in order to record very concretely what that specific objective of the Republic of Slovenia's State is for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Of all the chapters I'm going to run quickly, first of all, the development of the Union. It is expressed that we support the Treaty of Lisbon, so that when it comes into force, we can devote our work to global challenges. So much for seeing Slovenia. Climate change. We support the fair adoption of an international agreement to adapt to climate change. Very good, too. But sometimes after 2012, with what measures in and out of the country, I regret not to find another part, which I have also read. The energy sector is very important. Slovenia says that in 2008 the final agreement will be crucial to the laws governing the internal market in electricity and natural gas and that the internal market is important for Slovenia. This is all true and we refer to another strategic energy review. Now I'd like to ask who knows what the essence of this second strategic energy review is. The emphasis is on changing energy and biofuels in particular, bioenergy, which is to reduce global pollution, to achieve the objectives of better and better quality life and health, on the one hand, and on the other, nobody mentions, nobody writes, nobody has done an analysis of how much bioenergy they will and will encourage food. It has been proven by scientific institutions in Europe and the world. This study was conducted days ago. And they will. Another very important element where Slovenia is very strict: the implementation of sustainable economic and social reforms within the framework of the renewed Lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, Slovenia is convinced that, in parallel with this process, it is necessary to start thinking about the post-2010 strategy for economic and social reforms in the European Union. But what kind? It doesn't say, but I'd really like it to be written. For economic and social reforms in the EU. It should be written: Slovenia will endeavour to limit prices in the European Union's single internal market, and it will strive by 2015, if you wish, to compensate workers' and workers' salaries in the European Union in the internal market. You read everywhere: for Slovenia there is an important internal market, for Slovenia there is an important unity in the internal market, for Slovenia there is an important unity in this internal market and so on. But with wages, but I didn't make up this salary, this salary, that they are shamefully low for such a good nation, was found by European citizens and nationals of other countries. Unfortunately, it's not my invention. And finally, I'm only going to touch one more segment. I must say that the performance of the new Minister of Health has moved a great deal. This is one of the biggest and worst accusations of citizens and citizens of the European Union for one of the weaknesses in Slovenia, that ill-regulated health care in general. This isn't about critics now, it's about ministers in general. I'm talking about it. Some in Europe, specifically Belgians, cannot imagine living, specifically in Cerkne, and they must, if they get sick, not know how to share in the hospital. Secondly, they can't imagine such waiting times as we have. And they're only from Belgium, from the Flemish country. And thirdly, they can't imagine we don't have doctors. And here in health and consumers, on page 38, it nicely states that the focus of the new proposal is on greater legal certainty and clarity regarding access to health services. Sustainable operation of national healthcare systems. Free movement of services in the internal market in health services and a common approach to managing the consequences of the shortage and mobility of health personnel. It says this is the direction of the European Union. What is the orientation of Slovenia, however, it does not. Why am I saying that? Because in the next paragraph, when we are talking about organ donation and transplantation, Slovenia is very close and mentioned that Slovenia wants something in this case. [[...]] Slovenia has already supported closer cooperation. Speaking of the Commission's report on patient safety. Slovenia will pay particular attention to these initiatives. When we talk - thank God that there is Slovenia - about cancer control. This will certainly be one of the priorities for Slovenia. Okay. But the main problem right now is the lack of doctors for a long waiting period. On the other hand, Slovenia is committed to the internal market, the single internal market for health services. A foreigner in Slovenia, a national of another European Union country or a Slovenian in a foreign country have the same rights and conditions. You'll have them? I guess not. I would very much like to know, despite once again, the efforts of the new minister, who slightly after the table, who knows whether we are going to start this directive in 2008, so this year, now in the second half, whether we are going to reach it or not. What are we going to do, how are we going to get from Europe now, or the instructions, or the money, or the other doctors, or the exchange, or change the terms for the exchange of doctors, what are we going to do? What? We support something, but we have a long waiting period. We are purely from the system of Europe, so I say how we must be in the system. Once again, these are the obligations and rights of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, which are recorded for 2008 and 2009. Someone will be responsible for all this content. Someone. I'm afraid if someone who is now that he's gone then he'll say, 'cause that's not my concern. The other one's gonna say, 'cause mine's not, either, 'cause I didn't write it. We can't look like that. We need to know that we have to do this. What's written here. When and if we accept this declaration. That's why we're here today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u218	Mr. Zagorac will present the position Do you have procedural? [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u219	Dear President, Dr. Tuckyat! I have previously asked that the Members present take my suspension well-intentioned, well-intentioned in terms of respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the independence of the branch of power. Mr President, Dr Tsukjati, you have violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, specifically Article 73, which states that the President, not the President, may interrupt the work of the National Assembly during the meeting and determine when the work will proceed. On the basis of my list of meeting management, I was appointed today between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. It's not our job. It's not our job. It's not our job. Mr President, I sincerely hope that you will understand what I am saying and, of course, all the Members present. We must not participate in undermining the credibility of the National Assembly. We're an independent branch of the area. And if we agree that there are three-quarters of an empty hall, that there are no ministers with us who have announced their presence, that there are no people with us who have demanded, when should they meet or begin to be present? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u220	Mr. Pache, procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u221	The procedural proposal is to take into account what the chairman has said that the meeting of the National Assembly will continue when the National Assembly is concluded and when the representatives of the Government who are the applicants of the material will also be with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u222	You misquoted or misunderstood Article 73. Please read it again, for yourself, and think about what you said. Secondly, I interrupted your presidency and took over. And for the third time, ladies and gentlemen, not just ministers, every secretary of state is an equal representative of the government. And to demand that all ministers be here or also the President of the Government at a particular point is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. If the National Assembly so decided on a procedural proposal, we could do so. And you did it on your own. Mr Zagorac, please, on behalf of the Lip Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u223	During the meeting, the Chair may suspend the work of the National Assembly and decide when to proceed. If you look at the explanation of the Rules of Procedure, you will see that it is only the President and not the President who interprets the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly during the meeting of the National Assembly. So to talk about any misinterpretation, we can only read what it says, and in this direction I will continue. I'll only read what it says. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, but this country doesn't have one. Congratulations, Mr. Podobnik, you have taken your time and here you represent as the highest official of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia is such an important document that there is currently no proposal for an extraordinary meeting in the Chamber. Nor did the proposaler Jožet Tank, including a colleague of Grims, who skied his head the most, nor did those who asked us to sit here today, despite the fact that there are parliamentary holidays. Not one of the ruling coalitions before us and citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia - I apologize, from the largest government party, from the ruling coalition we have two present, even supporters have left. We have before us a document that will mark the lives of citizens and citizens in this country for 18 months. So important a document that he had to attend an emergency session. Such an important document that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia failed to bring him to a regular session because it took up extra time and gave him to us for an urgent meeting. On the first page of this document, under the second paragraph, I will read only what it says - The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 235 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, stipulates that the following Janez Janša, President of the Government, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Zofija Mazej Kukovič, Dragutin Mate, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, Dr. Lovro Šturm, Dr. Gregor Virant, mag. Radovan Žerjav, Marjeta Cotman, Janez Podobnik - all congratulations - Dr. Vasko Simoniti, Dr. Milan Zver, Karl Erjavec, Iztok Jarc and Dr. Ivan Žagar. Secretary of State Dr. Janez Pogorevc, Gregor Kranjc and Mag. Bostian Vasle. Of these, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, valued citizens and citizens, there are no people here. They just make fun of you and us. And until there are two thirds of those who have made a written commitment to the National Assembly to participate in the meeting of the National Assembly, the Lipa Group will not participate at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u224	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a declaration. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u225	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the Group of Members has already said, it is of the opinion that the commitments made in the Declaration be fulfilled - in any way to open the meetings of the Committee on European Affairs in the next term. Opening European meetings, and perhaps also for foreign policy, to the wider professional public, because it is not good that only politics decides on solutions and that citizens do not know enough about what is being discussed, what positions the government takes and what Parliament supports in doing so. I think that in this way we would also achieve a higher quality of our demands and better positions, which would go in the direction of a better profit with regard to solutions in the EU that concern our citizens as regards their lives. Support for the public-private partnership is also one of the guidelines. We do not object to this, but we note that public-private prattnership in all areas should not take effect at all in all areas of the rules and the right to love. For example, we cannot have a public-private partnership in court, in the police department, I think that even in health care is not good, even in school, because it is a matter of national interest and rights that concern the widest range of citizens in areas that need to be transparently guided by the State, with rights and content. While individuals, of course, expect profit in each partnership, not a positive zero action. One of the consequences is that of building a home, for example. Soon there will be no one in the public-private partnership except those with the highest pension who can pay for it. And we also need to maintain other forms of financing of these capacities by the State, or at least in this area will be the protection of the elderly [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] the country certainly lost its social note and, of course, its essential social content and obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u226	Thank you. Mr. Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u227	Thank you. Allow me just a few highlights or support in the declaration, which provides guidance for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions for the next 18-month period, which is until January 2010 and December 2009. Here I would like to stop at anything related to the implementation of the common agricultural policy or to the review of the situation in this area. It is necessary and I would like to stress that it is not just a reform, that it is only a review, a necessary revision and guidance to adapt this so important policy of the European Union to the current political challenges with the only objective I support - this is to improve the functioning and response of agricultural policy and to respond in a timely manner to the challenges and, finally, to the opportunities with a key focus, which is to simplify agricultural policies and agricultural legislation in all areas. I would like to express my support for the declaration, the adaptations of the common agricultural policy, but also for what you have written down to support only such adjustments that maintain the framework, the current framework of the common agricultural policy, which I think is important to stress, because stability, the known conditions of operation for agriculture and rural development is one of the most important and necessary conditions. We support all these measures and agricultural policy changes in order to achieve the necessary stabilisation and consolidation of agricultural markets, as they should be a satisfactory response to increasing food prices on the global market. The aim is also to increase competitiveness, productivity, because, I believe, it is precisely the response to threatening climate change, to the relation to biofuels, after all, to the protection of the environment, which is still somehow linked to farming in all forms and throughout the European Union, with the aim of ensuring absolutely greater food security. There is no need to stress that we support the European Union's project of fruit in schools. I believe that there will be a solution that will be acceptable to all, as well as a food aid measure for all those in the European Union who are most affected by food promotions. It's for those most endangered layers. We are convinced that this is also one of the real answers to this dilemma that we are facing. Given that Slovenia has 85% and 86% of its areas with limited factors, I also support the stated orientation towards policy adaptation for further support to these areas. The objective of support policies in the field of limited factors is certainly correct, but it is to preserve rural areas, to preserve production capacity and to preserve farmland or agricultural land in all respects. It does not need to be stressed that support for quality, market orientation and those two stated priorities need to be pursued. In view of the fact that the forests are our wealth, that all the necessary attention is certainly needed, we also support the stated orientation of sustainable forest management and opposition to illegal and uncontrolled logging, and would therefore also support written proposals for action in this area. Well, it is also very important in terms of food security that I think our forecast support for the regulation on the placing of plant protection products on the market and, in this regard, the expressed concern for the environment and for greater food security. After all, this is a topical issue that we have also faced in the first six months of the functioning of the National Assembly this year, both in relation to the slaughter of bees and the use or abuse resulting from the irrational use of plant protection products. I would certainly like to reiterate once again that I would like the measures which our country supports to be of the agricultural sector, which would seek the most stable and well-known conditions of farming, which is one of the imperatives for improving the economic situation of our country for a long period of time, as well as of the European farmer, and is a condition that, as a result, rejuvenating or increasing the interest of young people in farming, which is, in my view, the greatest problem of rural and farming in general, can be expected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u228	Thank you. Mrs. Uhanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u229	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that I am pleased that you, the President, have taken the lead in today's session, because it seems to me that the Vice-President has gone across the entire border of the beautiful image also to the Members who have listened attentively to today's debate, and to all the representatives of the Government who have listened even this afternoon to such a chairman, who would sometimes be in what school, not to the National Assembly. Well, I will also limit myself to the areas of agriculture, as if I were to deal with Mr Sušnik, but it is no wonder that we are both on the Committee on Agriculture of the National Assembly. This is the direction of Slovenia's operations in the European institutions for this year and next year. I must say that I also support New Slovenia and myself in the area of agriculture, where Slovenia and the European Union will strive for a more effective common agricultural policy, to simplify legislation. We note that legislation is often very complicated, and we have often been more papal than the pope in Slovenia and have added something else to it, thus contributing to the greater inefficiencies of Slovenian agriculture, which is already burdened with other historical and social conditions. Slovenia will strive to stabilise agricultural markets, increase competitiveness and productive agriculture, as stated in this declaration. This is all good and right, as well as seeking quality food production, to increase the market orientation of agriculture in order to introduce a green paper, to improve the quality of crops, to ensure a higher level of safety for consumers in the field of genetically modified organisms, plant protection products and so on. Of course, we also support the effort or the fruit project in school, which has been funded in recent years, or at the time by the Ministry of Education - we are sorry that this has stopped. Now the European Union and Slovenia support this project in order to introduce fruit into schools and this would be co-financed by the European Union, and I hope also by Slovenia. Sustainable forest management - we have talked a lot about this, we regret, on the one hand, that we have not gone through legislation in this area in the direction of the European Union, in the area where it gives more rights to land owners, so that they also have the opportunity to use forests for hunting, for example, or to give state forests to larger land owners and so on. The declaration says that more attention will also be given to the high level of animal health, animal welfare - this is also right. In short, the declaration is very good and I hope that it will not only remain at the declaration level, but that it will be implemented effectively. Unfortunately, I must say that despite the relatively large funds granted to agriculture in Slovenia as well, direct payments or a relatively good share of the rural development programme have not yet been seen in the results, namely in the area of self-sustainment of Slovenia with food. Unfortunately, Slovenia has fallen below 50% of self-sustainment and I believe that food security will be one of the main themes, including the Slovenian governments of the future, as well as the entire European Union. The population is constantly increasing. However, resources or production capacity for food production are also being reduced at the expense of climate change, environmental requirements, the reduction of agricultural areas, including a negligible attitude towards agricultural land, construction and so on. In short, it will be the theme of all future governments and we should also work on promoting domestic food, not only with negative affairs such as chloramphenicol, mad cows, bee killing and more. All of this also had a very negative impact on the Slovenian farmer, who is slowly leaving agriculture. And I am very worried, from day to day, I feel that more land is being cultivated, more and more forests are being planted, and fewer and fewer are native agricultural land and the production of Slovenian food.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u230	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u231	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, representatives of the government! I think this document is very much needed. On several occasions, it was stressed that we would take it seriously. This is a commitment, not just for this coalition, for this government, which is now on the run, but also for the next generation. I will only touch on some of the issues that seem important to me, but they may not be affected as I imagined. Competitive internal market. With regard to competition, we have several problems in Europe as well as in Slovenia. We have seen that we have problems with traders, and the telecom market is even bigger because it is also monopolistic in Europe. If you have differences in prices 1:10 - now is the question of roaming - then surely there are five to ten times the difference and reserves and some operators who have the status of monopoly are fairly peeling citizens, of course also us. They're not just tycoons here, they're also in Europe. By setting roaming prices we will not come much; it is the path to normalisation, but the market must work; it must also work for food. This is a contribution to increasing inflation. Europe has met with this because of the consequences of monopolies. That's definitely one thing to do. In the document, if I go any further, there is no talk of how Europe will deal with this plague - inflation. Slovenia has high inflation, Europe is moving on this edge. As far as Slovenia and Europe are concerned, there is no answer. Today we read in newspapers that there are no real instruments at European level, no real tools for how to stop, and they suggest that national countries and national regulators do so. Next, Turkey's integration into the EU. Why, then, who's cheering for this? We do have countries of entry that are culturally more suitable to join the EU. Who the hell is pushing for Turkey to be in the EU all the time? Is it in terms of cultural dialogue to dominate the Islamic system - be careful, civilisational, not religious. I'm in favour of pluralization, but there's something else being sold under it. I'm sorry, this is not the right answer for me, and I see no reason to put Turkey in particular. Maybe England wants this because it has good business and business relations. Research - for sure - and of course education. If we look at the relationship between Europe and America and develop the world for research, the ratio, say, Slovenia is €40, Europe 70, America and developed countries from €200 to €300 per capita. Such are the differences, but it will not be through the provision of budgetary resources. Looking at other countries, they have developed strategies to invest heavily in research, development and education from private resources. Social integration, free movement of labour, free movement of residents - all nice and good. In Europe, in particular in France, they have serious problems with the inclusion of a third generation already living to become part of the normal environment. Is there any smart answer here - for example, for anyone who moves in a mandatory integration into an individual social integration programme. Is that what Europe is thinking? Nothing! She is interested in some job growth and is facing a chronic shortage of jobs. 5 million jobs in Europe. Of course, this is the demand and desire of the European Commodity to import cheap workers from exotic places who will work for us. That's why it's very important that we go to the demographic program. This is in a drawer somewhere in Slovenia, and there is no particular interest in this in Europe. This is linked to the labour market strategy and flexicurity. flexicurity, countries are expected to adopt national programmes by the end of 2008. In Slovenia, I do not know whether it is ready or not, but this is certainly very, very important. So, for whom, then, to build Europe if there is no joy [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to life if we don't know who we're building this for. [[...]] And here we need to find the answer and the document on all these questions does not provide the right answer, of course it will have to be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u232	Thank you. Dr. Gaber has the word - he's giving up. Mr Rezman is next, although there is less time. That's what you're saying. He's also giving up. Mr. Kokalj, he's not here. Mr Jerovšek - he is not. Mr. Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u233	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'm glad you took over the session and made some arrangements because I don't know if the work elan "fell clean down". Maybe your predecessor had to do some kind of emergency, maybe he jumped on the Maribor Road Company or somewhere else, that's his private matter. Well, here's to the subject. I don't know why there's so much excitement about a resolution that's just for a longer period of time. This time period essentially allows Slovenia to complete the Presidency or to continue to engage in the actions it has set up during the Presidency. Somehow such a tone was also on the committees where I was present, where there were no longer discussions. They mostly agreed to thesis. For example, on the Health Committee, the importance of the cancer programme, which already threatens almost every 4 people in the European Union and is also the cause of death. Maybe there's more to the topics I'm involved in. Several more discussions were on the Lisbon strategy. The right direction I support is to support innovation and entrepreneurship. These are new jobs, innovation gives us an opportunity in a brand new area of new energy, new energy efficient machines, devices, buildings. It is good that the Lisbon Strategy has also turned to people to use this social component, especially with the fifth freedom to make sure that there is a better exchange between students and researchers, that is, those who are supposed to carry development. It is important that we continue to attach importance to the environment within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy or as a special chapter. Almost every year, Slovenia is affected by a disaster. It is not yet a year around when the floods and the beaches with the fatalities were, even the current storm, the damage went into high sums. First, the effects of climate change need to be mitigated, and secondly, the causes need to be addressed. Perhaps he would have stopped slightly in some of the claims made by his colleagues. Food was so irritated not only because there was a large proportion of the raw materials in the biofuels, but also because oil was on the rise because last year there were poor crops due to major natural disasters in the countries producing cereals, whether it was drought or floods. And the price of grain settled down at $20 this year, below the price, and it looks like the crop is going to be normal. In principle, I am in favour of some small quantity of these raw materials still being used to produce biofuels, because if part of the biofuel industry is used or continues to develop in relation to production. But I certainly expect more from the second generation biofuels. And here's the challenge. These second-generation biofuels are, as we know, waste from food processing either in fields or in industry. There were also concerns about enlargement, mainly around the enlargement to Turkey. I'd like to warn you, the whole Turkish coast is basically industrialized. The young generation has the philosophy of Europeans, perhaps our only reservation that they belong to another religious cultural area, but also in the light of the multicultural dialogue they are falling away from. Turkey is already an important economic partner; Italian companies, German companies, in fact from all over Europe, and especially the United States are interested in Turkey's entry mainly because they have a three-million-dollar armada in a very unstable area, on Russia's soft southern stomach, near the restless Caucasus, near the Middle East and so on. Turkey may also be a model of capitalism for Slovenia, because our great capitalists, perhaps Jankovic or others, are difficult to measure with the Sabans. That there is an intercultural dialogue in Turkey, let me say that the Sabasnsi family is led by Mrs Sabanci, not men. So much of Turkey is open to Europe and if we give them support - or if in the end, Europe will only have the opinion that they need support to join the EU. Of course, the interim solution is the Mediterranean Union, which has just come to life. Big projects, of course, I saw on foreign television, not on ours, one of the projects is the highway from Cairo to Casablanca. If we look at the countries it's going through, we see that it's going across countries that have hermetically closed borders, say, Moroccan-Algeria is once hermetically closed, and the second hermetically closed border is Algeria-Libya and so on. So the resolution shows support, and as such I will support it myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u234	Thank you. Mr. Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings again to all of you who insist. I appreciate that very much. I would also like to say that I very much appreciate that the Government has responded very quickly to the storms we have experienced in Slovenia from the east to the west. I believe that these are not the only measures, nor are they the last. I'm really sorry that Slovenia has experienced this tragedy. Now, I'm sure we could use the EU presidency this half-year. Let me remind you once again that in the wake of the accident in the Railways, the then ECOFIN changed the EU budget for 2008 and provided funds from the solidarity fund for the rehabilitation of the floods in the Railways. I am convinced that the EU is well informed about the tragedy that has beset us and that assistance will also come from Europe. My debate may be somewhat different. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government have presented the document, which we are considering today, in an exact and detailed manner. Above all, I would like to see that our work, the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions, is directed in this direction, so that we can actually feel the EU's citizens and citizens. So far, I think there is too much distance between the EU institutions and its citizens. This may also have led to an Irish referendum. With the Irish rejection of the Treaty of Lisbon, we in Novi Slovenija stress that Europe must rediscover its roots and the basis of its values and identity. Otherwise the European Union will not go forward, that is our conviction. We must be interested in the European Union's project in which we can participate, and we must be involved in ensuring greater stability and greater unity of the European continent as well as of other parts of the world. However, particular care must be raised to the great Europe and its history and culture. Europe must, as it is said, find its roots and foundations again. Europe needs an identity, a vision and an idea, we are sure of New Slovenia. We all know that politics in the performances of our people means, unfortunately, something bad. For us, politics is certainly not a good signal. What politics means and what politics means - we all know. Politics means work for the public good, politics means work for their own interests in the name of politics. Those who work almost exclusively for their own benefit usually use politics as a tool to achieve the greatest social impact and gain personal wealth. The fathers of Europe, the fathers of the European Union were politicians with a large beginning, politicians in the true sense of the word. They worked well for all of Europe. The restless nations were united into an economic union, where there was no room for contention, strife, and war. The European Union's fathers are most deserving of the fact that no conflict has erupted on European soil. They have ensured economic and cultural progress despite the bloc's Cold War. Their lives were a work for the benefit of the European nations. It is a shame that we no longer have such European policies. Today's European politicians, including us, may be lacking the gift of wisdom and the gift of caution that has been so seen in the fathers of the European Union. All Europe should thank these men. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u236	Thank you. And on behalf of the motioner, Mrs Barbra Borota, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u237	Thank you so much for saying that. Much of the debate has also been repeated in this part, the debate on the declaration, so that it would not go too far in interpreting certain answers. Perhaps you would first respond to the impression that the declaration is too general. So, as the Government has represented this before, I think this is now the fifth time, this framework is also a general political framework that gives sufficient room for manoeuvre to adapt to the decisions and views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We will certainly still regularly go to all the committees, as we have done so far, and seek support and inform you about all the points of view before we travel to Brussels and present them. So, in this respect, the government sees no problem. In addition, this programme is adapted to the new Rules of Procedure of the EU Council covering 18 months, which is a year and a half, and also takes into account the Commission's legislative work programme for 2008 and also takes into account the 2009 Annual Policy Strategy. Believe that even after the Commission adopts a new legislative framework at the end of the year, there will be no significant changes, as all the guidelines are somehow also indicated in this declaration. Then I would have responded to the obvious that the declaration had been prepared too late and that there had been insufficient consultations. Let me draw attention to the fact that the Council's 18-month programme was not ready until 16 June, so that, despite the fact that we presided, the Government was still able to coordinate the entire position among the departments and present the matter on all the Committees of the National Assembly. And I hope that you will also accept this document today. As for Macedonia and the readings that had already been made before, I forgot to reply in the first part of point 1 this time, to say that in the declaration we are committed to obtaining Macedonia as soon as possible a date for the start of negotiations. We hope that this will happen in December on the European Council. That it is not possible to tell Slovenia that it has failed here because the cases were blocked by another Member State, you know, Greece, the background was the harmonisation of the name and similar matters, so that Slovenia has done what was possible here and has also negotiated much in this direction. As far as the Directive on reduced VAT rates is concerned, a proposal has only recently been put forward so that the substantive answer to this question has also been given at yesterday's meeting of the EU Committee on Affairs and that the Government will draw up a position and, in a timely manner, come to the hearing in the National Assembly, so that this will also be coordinated with you. Then you also mentioned different areas, such as food price increases. These are all things that have actually taken place under our presidency and are likely to take place for a long time and will require sufficient flexibility at all national levels, at Union level and at global levels. So I don't even know if it makes any sense to put any more concrete texts into a declaration. As regards labour migration, this is a problem, and the proposal for a directive on the conditions of entry and residence of highly qualified third-country workers is currently a priority dossier in the area of legal migration in the EU. As Mr Drobnic said, Europe must become more attractive to highly qualified workers who are lacking. However, we believe that the Blue Card is a good instrument that will enable all highly qualified workers to work in the EU and under good conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude that every time we prepare a declaration, it is hard work, not prepared on an "ad Hock" basis, but we are carefully coordinating it, so that we come with serious intentions and with serious opinions, although they seem to you to be loose, I believe they are worthy to be confirmed. However, in-depth substantive discussions can be held when the files are in order and when the matter is ongoing. Many of you have raised the issue of a more determined representation of Slovenian interests, but I believe that with the completed Presidency we have gained confidence, gained experience, gained insight into our credibility and hope, or I am confident that we will also be more confident in the next year and a half, which are presented in this declaration. Of course, we also hope for your cooperation and mutual understanding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u238	Thank you. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Yeah. I'm opening the application. The application is in progress. Mrs. Potrata, five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u239	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government. Dear Madam Secretary. I am convinced that citizens and citizens of Slovenia have a positive attitude towards the European Union. Today, a survey by Eurostat was cited, and it is precisely if you read the answers carefully that you could understand from the main answer that they have a positive attitude towards life in the European Union. Other polls also say that citizens and citizens of Slovenia are above average aware of the functioning of the European Union, and if we look at things from this point of view, then it would probably suggest saying another thing, that they are significantly less optimistic when they look to the future, at inflation, at economic development when compared with purchasing power, and from many other data, so it would be good to look at what these data show us in full. But what would suggest in this regard is that they probably expect some things to appear more substantively before they are accepted and before we have a declaration in such a form that they can no longer influence. And here we also have to look for the reasons why some things are happening today in this hall, and it would be right not to do so. There is also a way of discussing working bodies where it is actually difficult to listen to any debate. I will only touch the details on what is written in the declaration, which I feel as an experience in working, because this is a declaration of guidelines for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU institutions. And here on page 33, I read in education that there is something to be done for flexicurity, training, education for this; but look at flexicurity, we know data that, in particular, young Slovenia has already reached the European average percentage in employment of young people, the first job seekers, and in particular women for a certain period of time. And when I link this to the demographic picture of which there was also a speech today, it is known that the constantness of employment, the solved housing issue and the good pay for the work are three fundamental reasons that affect whether young people decide for the family or not. And when we talk about flexicurity, at least as far as women are concerned, I would like to point out that, according to all the indicators of employment for a certain period of time, we are comparable to Europe. But when we talk about self-employment of women, we are on average and below average in all those forms of employment of women that would allow for compatibility of family and professional life. Once we are ready to face concrete measures for the implementation of the policies of the European Union, then we will also have some hope that something will get better. Look, multilingual education, which is crucial. I asked the Ministry of Education for a parliamentary initiative to include Spanish among the set of languages. Impossible, they said. Spanish children in primary school want to learn because of Spanish sequels. Yes, where is the information that the number of Spanish speakers in the world is extremely high? This is what needs to be heard and if there is an interest in learning a foreign language, it should be encouraged and not rejected by some unverified arguments. I've marked here a side of gender equality and non-discrimination. All that is written here on page 38 is a copy of the general findings and documents, one particular thing is not what Slovenia will do in this context. And in the meantime, there is this remarkable problem in the pay gap between women and men. [[...]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] Recently, I read the data on the 5-euro difference or the percentage difference, but it's not true. [[...]] Because if you look at the individual segments, the pay gap is significantly higher, especially in the case of the higher educated. And so you could [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u240	Thank you. Do you still want a representative of the government? Here you go. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u241	I'll be less than five minutes. Dear Member, you have repeatedly heard that our parade horse is also a new cycle of the Lisbon Strategy. And just about all the things that you've been alerting me to, it's also a new cycle. This cycle will be implemented and monitored during this period of declaration. That's how all these things are going to adapt. As far as gender equality is concerned, in fact, the Social Agenda has only been published by the Commission after the declaration by the Social Agenda document, which includes this area. The social agenda includes not only this, but a whole range of difficult issues awaiting negotiation by Member States. This will not be easy because these are areas that belong to the policies of the Member States, but the EU, too, wants to regulate these matters in a democratic, transparent and just way. As far as the issue of women is concerned, the renewed Lisbon strategy is also trying to put in place a fair relationship between family life, employment and so on. In short, this is a wide range of things that are developing. Now, Slovenia is appropriately shaping its views in this respect according to the documents that are being published. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u242	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. The competent working bodies have not accepted any amendment to the proposal for a declaration. The assembly will therefore take a decision on the proposal for a declaration in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of point 1a, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Lawyers. We are still in the middle of the debate on Article 2 and the amendment to this Article. Since there is no longer an electronic list of discussers that have not yet been discussed, I will list them: Mr Školč, Drobč, Pojbič, Gatar, Moge and Gulič. Mr. Petty Officer, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u243	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the competitive clause, I can say that, of course, the intention of the Government with this law is essentially right, but the implementation itself does not seem proportionate to me. That is why I will not support such a decision, nor will I oppose that decision. What about a permanent term? I think that judges as such could have a permanent mandate, but jobs could be carried out for a certain period of time, so that the judicial mandate would be as a license, and then, of course, they are jobs. This would also mean the right solution for what is happening to us in Slovenia. And when there's so many words, what status judges should have, what wages. I propose that judges have a regime such as that of Members, why not not. Every four years theirs are confirmed - if that's what they want, because they always stress it. I do not object to their intention, but I wonder, of course, whether this is also the end of the true solution. There are clauses for some other professions, but in this case the clause would have been more appropriate for the opposite: in the case of a transition from a lawyer to a judicial profession, that if a judge were to judge in this case, because, of course, he was in the role of a lawyer, that of course it was incompatible and incompatible, because in this case he could have acted against the interests, because as a lawyer, everything was entrusted, that is, all the information, personal information that he could have used in the trial. But, however, to repeat it, we have some concerns about this proposal. The intention is somehow - so, I understand the intention in the right direction, but the measure is disproportionate in my opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Personally, as a group of Members, I do not think that the law is appropriate for us to decide on it and to confirm it. The first thing that bothers me about this is the speed in adopting this law. Members of Parliament are not legal geniuses, and we also need the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, which has been provided, professional assistance in order to draw up quality views on the basis of which we can decide here. Yesterday we got on the table from the Law Enforcement Service Act, yesterday we decided on the door to the nose, today we got the law on the table, one amendment - and now we're going to make a decision. I think that such preparation of the law is totally unquality preparation of the law and the law, as it is, is also inquality. On the other hand, what our judges did to us to do with them. Look, nowhere in this review that the government has given is this competitive clause in Europe. And let's see, let's say what they wrote for our colleagues across the border. They say the so-called competitive clauses for judges and prosecutors entering the legal profession in Austria do not know, "Urbi et Orbi". Well, we'll tell our parents that they have to have it with the marriage, and the Austrians don't have it. And when the Austrians ask our colleague when they meet, why did they give you this? Do you think he will go to mention four or five names that have always been quoted here to "get through" such a law? Figo! People who spoke of living people were in violation of one part of the code of parliamentary ethics. Why? The people you mentioned here were never convicted - for the first time. The second time they were mentioned, these people could never defend themselves. And thirdly, in the case of a crowd of 1,200 judges and lawyers, to be limited and to adopt a law for four or five cases with such a restriction, I find it horrifying. On the other hand, I find this horrendous, respected fellows and colleagues; look, the young girl who came from Trebnje and went to law school, studied here, did not get another job, as if she had gone to court, she couldn't go to law school, even though she wanted it from the heart. Or the other one who came from Tolmin went to study, she liked the law, she went to judge, and she saw that it wasn't her job to judge people, but she'd like to do 100% of her life experience to defend people and go to lawyers. What did all these cases of these women do to us, in fact, 90% of them in first-degree courts, to be branded by not being able to go forward and do anything else for four years? It seems to me that in this vast crowd and in the multitude of people who are working in the profession, this thing is extremely discriminatory and it is not worth considering that four or five people should do this thing the way we are doing here today. I think we should adopt laws so that people can accept them as their own, or at least allow them to tell us what's wrong. Could the Council of Justice have said anything - nothing. Is there anything the bar could have said? Nothing. Could the Judicial Society have said anything - nothing. We for the third branch of power now work with all the vats to show how worthless it is. To fly the third branch of power in this way, the pay system is imposed - excuse me, where did this lead to? Until we have big problems in the country, as far as this is concerned. People thus give to reward them by the effect - the third branch of power by the effect! Are the executive and our legislative authorities paid in return? As long as we're sitting here, as far as we're concerned, we're not. And also this competitive clause is this third thing, so I think that the current leadership of the Ministry is getting judges with some kind of political burner and wants to subordinate them in such a way that they can be manipulated more easily when they have them in their arms. For this reason, of course, I will not support this law alone, and I think it would be wise for us to postpone it, get the opinion of the competent bodies, and then we could end it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u246	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of the National Assembly. In short, I would like to further explain this bill's proposal. As you know, since we already discussed this on the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice yesterday, and even today, introductory explanations by the Secretary of State have already been given, the National Assembly has already dealt with this issue. In the 1990s, the National Assembly noted that there was a need to restrict the transition from the judiciary to the legal profession. At that time, the National Assembly, the legislator, adopted a regulation which the Constitutional Court ruled was not in a reasonable relation to the objective pursued. Let us first look at what is set and thus the legitimate objective of the legislator's intervention in this area. In this case, we have two constitutional rights to deal with. On the one hand, there is a constitutional right to freedom of work, and perhaps the right to exercise a free economic initiative, as an additional or certainly secondary one - on the one hand the scale, and on the other hand the rights of others arising from Article 23 of the Constitution. This Article 23 of the Constitution, however, is a copy of Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which speaks of the right to a fair trial. The European Court of Justice is also in its recent decisions, we have already cited them, the last of them since 2007, pointing out the importance of maintaining the appearance of impartiality of the court, to eliminating any doubts about the court's bias in decision-making. The legislator's legitimate aim is to dispel doubts about the impartiality of the judiciary, the impartiality of the court. And this doubt was evident among you, among your predecessors in the National Assembly in 1993, when the first such novels were proposed. And there was no doubt about the legitimacy of the Constitutional Court's objective in its 1997 decision. For the first test carried out by the Constitutional Court is a test of the legitimacy of the legislator's purpose. It's not a question of legitimacy. The following tests shall be conducted in accordance with the following logical order, which shall always apply when applying the principle of proportionality, in particular the strict principle of proportionality, and shall apply where two protected goods are weighed. And this is also the case in our case. The first proportionality test is where we first ask ourselves whether the means used by the legislator to achieve its objective in the law is at all appropriate to achieve this objective or to achieve it in a reasonable manner. At that time, the restriction stipulated that that judge who went to law enforcement should not have his office in the court where he was court. This has, of course, been very quickly found to be in order to achieve the goal, it is said to remove doubts about the impartiality of the trial has no meaning, because there was no prohibition of representation, and the seat can be one kilometer from the area of that court, for example, if it is the area of Ljubljana, and if you want to, it has its seat in Domžal, or if you want, even on Skofljica or Grosuplje, there are also known legal offices, and of course it can represent and do all this work again in this court. Therefore, the Constitutional Court at that time found that the restriction was an inappropriate means of achieving a legitimate objective and repealed the law in that respect. If we now go in order to assess proportionality and first ask ourselves whether the proposed limit can achieve the objective pursued, we see that it does. This, in this case, is appropriate because it is in a reasonable relation to the objective pursued by the legislator. The next proportionality test shall be if the means proposed to achieve the objective is also necessary. Of course, the urgency is not in any relation to speed, as it was between the lines read in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in its report. The urgency means that the proposed remedy is necessary. And if the asset is urgent and important, it means that there is no other asset available. And if there is no other means, then this means, which is proposed, is necessary and necessary because there is no other. It is said that any objection that the proposed remedy is not necessary or necessary not to hold judgment if the objector does not submit another less favourable remedy, one which would lessen the proposed legal status or arrangements. We do not see another such means by the proposer and no one has proposed it so far in the debate. The third proportionality test, however, refers to an assessment if it is not the weight of the proposed measure, I will say, too heavy, too disproportionate to the objective we are pursuing. We estimate it's not. In this respect, we also apologize for the following arguments. On the one hand, it is necessary to take into account the average duration of the cases, both in the Court of First Instance and in particular in the more important cases, in particular in criminal matters, where complaints are decided in the higher courts. The average time of more difficult criminal cases is, as you are likely to see, honourable Members and Members, known, more securely than the time measure proposed in the law. Before the Court of First Instance decides on the appeal, the Court of Appeal shall, after which the matter shall be annulled and returned to the Court of First Instance for a period of time, certainly longer. On average, on more difficult issues, however, more than the proposed time measure. Therefore, this proposed measure is justified from this perspective. Now we need to look at another reason, in addition to the court's time-limits, and this is, in how long does it call into question between the peoples whether a judge or some prosecutor who has ruled on a case in a court of law will now pass among the lawyers, how much longer his presence in the lawyers' ranks can potentially influence the doubt of the court's impartiality. The answer to this question is certainly different, in individual national regimes, given the practical implementation of this and also the actual situation found in different countries. In some, this doubt will resolve sooner, in some later. In those countries where there is no judicial backlog, this doubt will certainly be resolved sooner. In those countries where they know a very well-established way of applying the moral-ethic code governing the rules of conduct of all persons in the judiciary, judges, prosecutors, lawyers and notaries, the situation in these countries is slightly different. If we look at whether such conduct is standardized in an ethical code adopted by a judicial society or a bar or a prosecutor's association, then these things are already regulated there and there are no cases that could raise doubts in an impartial court. They have codes abroad that are like this. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] , are known ethical codes. [[...]] The ethical codes that our professional associations have with us are usually such forms that you can put them in your one-finger pocket. A lot of things don't work out. Professional associations of judges, prosecutors, lawyers, also often discuss these issues at their meetings. With us, although I have already given some initiatives to the Slovenian judiciary, it would make sense to discuss such issues, we have not had such discussions so far, and the passing of judges in this case is not the only way that can be disputed and people can also point out because they are in the eyes. And things like that aren't useful. They raise doubts about the court's bias. Let me mention just a few more such questions that are unresolved and that are dealt with differently abroad and that are sometimes not allowed abroad. For example, if it is right that the spouses are employed in the same court. Is it right, for example, that you are married, that someone is a judge, another lawyer? Perhaps even that one of them is the president of the court and the other one is the lawyer. These things would make sense when an open debate would begin when this debate would first begin in the context of the affected professional associations, professional associations and when we should not have to resolve this by law, but would have resolved such cases by means of an ethical code. However, the code of ethics should be in force in such a way that it should be respected in these professional circles so that it has even more power than the law has. Unfortunately, since we do not have that, we have proposed the next arrangement. Last but not least, it convinces us that according to the public opinion research carried out by the Politbarometer. The judiciary does not enjoy great respect in Slovenian society. I would very much like to enjoy it. I think it'd be good if I did. And I am very much in favour of this, because judges are doing very important work, the work of a judge is more than usual work, this is a mission, this is a profession, this is a commitment to this work. Finally, it is extremely responsible. Judges decide what matters most after deciding on life. They decide freedom. This is an extremely important and responsible work, so we would also like to see that the reputation and respect of the courts are also sufficiently high. Measures that help to eliminate doubts about the impartiality of the court also help to raise the reputation of the court in the public eye. And in such cases, it is possible to count later on with a shorter deadline, but under given conditions, when, as I said, the average duration of the procedure in important cases on average is on average longer than the proposed time limit, when unfortunately the courts have not yet reached such a level of confidence in the public, so that somewhere at the very top of the institutions that affect people's trust and in which they do not doubt, this deadline is also justified in law. These are the arguments that show the eligibility of this period. Now there is something else about comparison with other arrangements. Consider, for example, some of the other Central European countries. They don't know the uniform justice exam as well as we do. After the candidates have passed the state's legal exam, they can go either to the judges or to the prosecutors or to the lawyers or to the notaries. Others have such a special examination, especially for judges, especially prosecutors, especially lawyers. The one who passed the state exam for judges cannot pass between lawyers because he does not have a state exam for lawyers. It's in Germany. In addition, restrictions on certain areas of the courts were also known in Germany. And these districts were generally much larger, both in scale and by number of inhabitants, such as the large Slovenia. The environment to be taken into account in this regard is also undoubtedly that Slovenia is geographically smaller and is not numerical. After all, the population is as large as Munich with its suburbs. These are, of course, all the circumstances justifying the proposed intervention. These are also arguments that also justify weighing in the third proportionality test. In a test to assess the weight of the proposed measure. So much for once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u248	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Potch. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u249	Thank you very much. I'm not going to comment on how today's session is going, even though I'm ashamed of how it's going. I will say, however, that in the work carried out by Vice-President Peca as Chair on this point, it has been decided by vote that we all speak for a maximum of five minutes and once. And that was also pointed out by the Secretary of State. If you did not hold a meeting, this does not mean that the conclusions which were at the meeting at the time of the holding of the other Vice-President, until he had that right and you did not take it away from him, are not valid. We voted against such a decision in the Group of Social Democrats because it seemed incorrect to us because we had warned at the meeting of the College that we should be available for such an important issue of sufficient time, and the College decided by a majority that we would not apply for time and that we would speak for 5 minutes. I do not expect you to regularly respect all rights in the last meeting in the same way, but at least to a minimum, respect them, but please tell us whether at any debate any of us will have, because I expect you to give us this right, Mr Minister, to speak again indefinitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u250	Thank you. Mr Potč, the restriction that has been voted on only applies to Members, has never been applied to the proposer. If it also applied to the applicant, it would mean that Members could speak for 450 minutes, ask a question and various dilemmas, and the applicant should only answer in five minutes and only once to all the dilemmas. In this case, there are two candidates, Mrs Lovtišar Bebler and a representative of the Ministry, who can be involved in the debate. As well as when we have a list of speakers, each Member speaks on his own list. I mean, Mr Potč, we are not in breach of any of the rules of procedure with this, but we are also taking into account the business provisions and the practice we have so far. Now he has a word on the list, Mr Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u251	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister! There's a lot of stuff coming together. Finally, the amendment is under discussion. And because of that, I don't think it was right what's been going on for the last 15 minutes. This lecture, which Professor Sturm had on several occasions, also on the Committee on Internal Policy, of course has quite a few holes. The fact that the so-called Penk Law is adopted by emergency, swift procedure, in urgent session, has actually resulted in today’s holding of this meeting. At first we said that this was an urgent meeting and it was urgent to add an urgent point, 1.a. But then it turned out that this urgent point is not so urgent, but that other points that were already more urgent. And of course, right now, I don't know, after six, seven hours, we're going to continue the debate on the amendment to Article 2, which is also kind of illogical. Just a few hours ago, let's say there were 24 of them, or more of them, it was heard that this four-year period, when those who leave the court or the prosecutor's office should not be able to perform legal services, optimally because in four years, some or most of the cases have been resolved, and also because forgetting in four years is enough to avoid the appearance of impartiality. Today we have before us, in one day it's been reduced to three years, it's one year. There was no justification, not before and not now. You're saying we don't do this to professional associations. However, as far as I have seen so quickly, the president of the Bar said something about this, and the prosecutors or their housing association also said so, as well as our service in Parliament. And none of them clapped. All those who hope have said more directly that this is bad, and those who are more cautious or closer to the Government have expressed doubts that this law would be appropriate or that it would solve the things you want to solve, Minister. I highly doubt that any of this is going to work out. The arguments that we heard at the previous emergency session, when it was just so indicated that it would happen, were also such that lawyers should not know what prosecutors need to know, otherwise the parties may be in the process of doing better. The justice of the trial is probably not about the lawyers and the prosecutors, it's about the judges. And it is probably the task of the National Assembly to protect all those parties in the process, all accused: either before being falsely accused and convicted, or before being exaggerated. That's probably what's important and we're not talking about the lawyer triangle here: the prosecutors: the judges. Always and always. And you can go watch the magnetograms, forget about those people who are then involved in these processes. The President-in-Office, because today's meeting is being held insufferably, because all procedures for handling this law have been violated, because we have not been able to discuss everything we want, and neither have the public, I announce obstruction of all voting for all points until the end of this extraordinary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u252	Mr Gulič, the Group of Members to the individual point indicates that, unfortunately, you will have to make specific predictions by the rules of procedure at each point. Only Mr. Gaber has yet to raise his hand. Anybody else want some? So I'm reopening my application. You can sign up for anyone you want and you haven't discussed it yet. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary. I will also support the amendment to Article 2 of this Act, because I believe that something needs to be done so that the cases that have taken place in our judiciary or in the judiciary no longer take place and that the judiciary and justice will be given greater prominence. Look, I read today in Del that yesterday the Senate of the Munich Court sentenced Croatian citizen Krunoslav Prates to life imprisonment, who participated in the liquidation of the heir, former marketing director Ines Stjepan Đurekovic. It was the so-called fate of annihilation. And I wonder if our judiciary, if it were to have this case or similar case, is even able to bring the process to an end. For, see, in the past, our judiciary has prevented the writing of a judgment in the event that it was also a matter of disclosing a conviction and paratrooper in Slovenia alone. And it is likely that in such a case, there would also be a prosecutor who would meet with the convict and act. The judiciary also prevented an investigation into war crimes [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] and, of course, the judiciary must take some steps to ensure that the public, too, has a greater reputation, a greater reputation. [[...]] And because of that, I am surprised that the president of the judges' society says that this will mean that I do not know what departure of the judges. I believe that most judges take this profession as a mission and will not just leave for that reason. This seemed like a judge's profession as a temporary runaway. And I hope most judges take their profession seriously. And, in Slovenia, things happened to be upside down. I think that journalists are under pressure from the media oligarchs and are writing that Mr Penko is now a national hero, that he has high ethical standards when he meets a suspect. That's the logic on the head and the reverse. That's something, I don't think, impossible. At the same time, the media is crying out to the most unreputable director in Slovenia. I don't know, these are very strange things. I think, given the examples we have in the past, that something needs to be done so that people can trust the judges as well as the prosecutors. This will also improve the situation in the area of the prosecution. And every such law, any such change, I hope it leads in a positive direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u254	Thank you. Mr. Bajc, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, it is a late hour, 21st, so it is 12 hours, Mr President, which is taking this meeting, but I would ask you or Mr Minister, I guess I didn't listen to him or my colleague Jerovska. If I look at the agenda, we're talking about changing the law on lawyers, not the law on judicial service. Unless I was sitting in my ears, not my colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u256	Thank you. Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be right behind you in the late hours. However, I must say that it is very difficult for me to accept the obvious that this government or this coalition are being bitterly brought to the judicial branch of power. Here I would expect at least a handful of honesty and objectivity from my opposition colleagues' discussions. And you will all agree with me that it is this government and this coalition, through the adoption of the budget, that it has provided the most resources in this mandate to regulate the premises in which the judiciary works and for the completion or better staffing. All of this, of course, has to do with financial resources. And when I talk to the judges today, I was finally at the opening of the renovated premises in Murska Sobota, and I was pleased to also accept the satisfaction and gratitude of the judges who really received good conditions for work. The first is for sure that these conditions are good, the spaces are good, the informationisation is good, as well as a sufficient number of staff. I can only say this once more, as I have already said on the committee, this law is not "ad personam", it is not "lex Penko". But it is true, and I repeat that the Penko-Zidar meeting was also a reason for me to sign the request for an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy. This Mr Penko, for whom you all cheer so much, can only in the Slovenian public "man" that some minister of this government has given some secret documents to a journalist. Please, fat lie. Fat lie! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u258	Thank you. Mr. Root.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u259	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Good evening to the Messengers, to the Minister and to the others. First of all, as far as this amendment is concerned, Article 2, which, from the proposed four-year period of incompatibilities of the exercise of office, reduces to three years, I must say that I will support the amendment, irrespective of the reasons that Mr Minister spoke about yesterday, for one simple reason, because there was too much opposition to that age for four years. Otherwise, I think it is right to ask ourselves again why we are adopting this law today. I think that the only and main reason is to grant individuals the right to a fair trial to ensure the constitutional right conferred by Article 23 of the Constitution. And we ensure this in such a way that no participant in the proceedings will have any suspicion or doubt that the trial is unfair, that the trial is biased. When I spoke or gave an opinion this morning, I especially stopped with the respect of the courts, the judges, the judicial service, and I said that it was sad that this reputation was at such a low level. And I said that it certainly wasn't just the judges who blamed him for being guilty on several subjects, not just the courts and the judges. But when I received this letter from the Council of Justice addressed to the Council of State, to President Francet Tsukjati today, or later, it is the opinion of the Council of Justice towards this law, I must say that, after this letter, at least in my eyes, the reputation of the Council of Justice or the reputation of the judiciary is even smaller. The answer is that the Council of Justice is a collective body that takes its decisions at meetings. That the application and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Lawyers, the urgent procedure, were received by 15. Seven. The first meeting, at which the Council of Justice will be able to consider a proposal for a law, is foreseen to be 11. 9. Yeah, good morning, court! I'll say it's no wonder we have such a backlog. I'll say, if in certain cases the municipality can have enough 30-day time to respond to an invitation, and if anything is in the interest of the Council of Justice, yes, then perhaps an urgent meeting can be convened, as the Assembly of State may call it, but not that this is supposed to be 11. 9. By doing this, I wanted to illustrate what are also the things that diminish the reputation of the court. At the same time, I was going to say that today's entire debate, the entire work of today's National Assembly, was also going on in such a way as to make sure that the reputation of the National Assembly is smaller after today's meeting of the National Assembly than it was before. And it probably wasn't very big before. I would like to say a few more arguments, which have been said several times today and yesterday, that this law will lead to a new lack of judges. I don't think that's gonna happen. We know that the waiting period for practice in the courts was 7 years, although it is shrinking a little, but it is still a long time to wait for the execution of a judicial scratch. Thus, these 14 cases, which take place in four years, will certainly not lead to a greater shortage of judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u260	Thank you. Procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u261	Thank you very much. I have to use this option because every five minutes you change our rules of conduct and every five minutes we have fewer rights. But it looks like that's how we're gonna end this meeting of the National Assembly. Finally, only you, Mr President, together with your government, which is more important in Parliament than Members and Members who would like to present their views, will sit in this Parliament. And I tell you that Members and Members of the Social Democrats will no longer participate in this debate. In substance, because we objected to the urgency of the procedure at the College, because at the meeting of the parent working body, we explained in our opinion the content of the proposed law, because this morning we proposed that the item of the agenda with the law on legal representation should not be extended, because there is no need for this, because, as long as the president gave us this opportunity, we argued substantively why the law is not appropriate. And because we have now lost even this right to speak substantively, although we have warned you at the College that the additional classifications of these agenda items also require the possibility that Members and Members or Members' groups should be given time, but not that time should be limited. Now the shortest to the content. There is no need for law under urgent procedure and as a necessary measure. In December this year, when the previous law on the amendments and additions to the law on lawyers was proposed, the Minister was aware of the cases, since our colleague Kumra's question was answered to the Member's question, that there was no problem if any President of the Court went to the lawyer in cases of similar dispute and that this was some normal conduct that was taking place and that there was no need to adopt any law. If there has been a case in which all wise men in this House say that the law must be amended, then the law should be prosecuted. It cannot be said, however, that all 1,080 judges, over 200 state prosecutors and their deputies, should not be punished for four years after the new three, perhaps if they decided tomorrow, would be two and a half, but that is how laws are passed in your government. We do not accept the responsibility for such content of laws and will no longer participate in its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u262	Thank you. Mr Potč, I respect your position, I also respect your decision to obstruct, but it would be nice if you did not lie that I am changing the way of discussion and the rules of the game every moment. Nor did I decide that every Member would speak only once at this point. This was your decision, or decision, of the National Assembly. Now we have both applicants reported. First of all, Mrs Lavtijar Bebler has the floor as her proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Only now I think I'm obstructing this session, too. I wanted to react, and I think before I obstruct this session myself, I think it's right to say. I listened earlier to the explanation of Minister Sturm, who said: "We regret not having such arrangements in Slovenia if we had special exams for both lawyers and judges as well as for prosecutors." Look, we have recently adopted additions to the law on legal examination. It was not at that time heard by the applicant in order to introduce such separate examination systems. On the contrary. In this law we even loosened the conditions for when a person could get a job as a lawyer, as a judge, or as a prosecutor. So this argument is kind of superfluous. You said that procedures in Slovenia are long on average for four years. Some, or many, are, of course, longer. Look, we recently passed a law on justice. The purpose of these amendments, however, was to substantially reduce the proceedings before the courts as a result of this law, because the Court will decide on the merits in the appeal if I make this very simplistic. Thus, I cannot see this proposed law in any other way than in the function of actually showing the muscles of the executive branch to the judicial branch of power, and it is the intention of punishing, specifically, Mr Penk, the former chief prosecutor. I also hope to state this from the content of Article 5 of this Act, where there has been a dispute and the Legal and Legislative Service has warned that this Article 5 is unclear and in fact contains some disguised retroactivity. Now that this retroactivity has turned out to be out of the question, it is through the adoption of this law that you are given the opportunity, thanks to Mr Penk, to publicly defile the name of Mr Penk and some others who have been mentioned today. That's unacceptable. And also, Mr President, when some Members spoke about things that had nothing to do with this law, you would be obliged to point them out. And I will express my great concern at this because we have not received an official position in the proposed amendments to this law, although we have heard individual positions in the media and have read them there, the Council of Justice, which is essential in this matter, a judicial society which is essential in this matter. We didn't hear the D.A.'s point of view. We have heard some opinions in the media of experts, including those whom we could not claim to be supporters of the opposition, but this ministry is rolling as a roller and does not take into account any comments and any strong warnings. And that is why I also thank you for this added opportunity at the end that, as a bill-maker for whom this coalition has made a great effort to make him, in sayings and in bad language, "caught" as soon as possible from this procedure, I thank you for this opportunity and wish you good luck, accept the law you want. But if we ever have and run a government, believe it, as it has been said, that this law will be one of the first laws. Because we're really looking at the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u264	Thank you. Mr. Minister, as a motioner. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! Let me briefly give you some further explanations. First of all, I think it was said by the honourable Member, Mr Gulič, that we did not respond to the views of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. My previous implementation was intended precisely to nanize the arguments which, according to the content, are such as to respond to the views of the said Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. However, I did not touch that part of this government service, in which it was based on clearly incorrect views as to the legitimate purpose of the law. The legal and legal service even spoke of the fact that the principle of impartiality cannot be applied to lawyers and explicitly stated that lawyers are biased by nature. In this regard, of course, it unwittingly attracted the arguments of the applicant, which in this particular case had to be noted that in these cases it was necessary to maintain the appearance of impartiality of the court or of the prosecution, where the former judge or the prosecutor had been employed, even after his office had ceased. This part, which is now particularly apostrophe from the above-mentioned position of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, is that, if you look closely at it, it attracts the applicant's arguments. So much for that. With regard to further discussion, let me just say that if you have closely monitored my implementation, you have seen that I have not really talked about civil disputes anywhere. I was talking about criminal disputes, I was talking about more important matters, I was talking about criminal matters. These are also the ones that are the most prominent in the public, and which also give the most reason for a huge bias or impartiality of the court. In criminal disputes, there is no such facilitation of the procedure that has already been adopted by honourable Members by the adoption of the Judicial Procedure Act, which will reduce the procedure in civil matters, we do not have this in criminal matters. But it is certainly, I can even say, the firm intention of this government to make the same change in the future mandate after the necessary preparations in the field of criminal procedure. But so far things are still the way they are, and so far the hands are still the way they are. If development shows that the deadlines for resolving all cases, including criminal cases, are really shorter, then this may also be an argument to shorten this deadline, one of the arguments. One argument is the length of the proceedings and the other is to cast doubt on the impartiality of the court. I would also like to respond to the statement made by honourable Member Darje Lavtijar Bebler that this is the case for revenge against Penk. The honourable Member is not an ordinary Member, but she is a qualified expert in this field, she is a graduate lawyer and knows that this is not true what she said. Mr Penko is already among the lawyers, he is in law enforcement and knows well that this law will not apply to him in this case. That's why I have to warn you about her slip. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u266	Thank you. I am also giving the word to Mr Gabre, who had already raised his hand before I applied, and he thought that he had already made his application. Here you go, Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wouldn't have answered if we didn't have a minister in front of us and his marriage, so a minister with whom I've said politically, as I've said before, we probably don't agree in 80%, or else I appreciate his way of working. I am therefore speaking because I am surprised that a man who comes from a legal nature, who also has a reputation in my eyes for being a conservative person in the field of law, in the field of laws, such as this particular case, can act in this particular complement in a way that no good father does. When she's stuck at work when something happened that he doesn't like, he knows that it's necessary to wait, think about it, and see what it means to do so that even when he doesn't like something, it doesn't happen anymore. I do not understand how it is possible to draw the conclusion that we have in law from the arguments you have listed. I listened to you before, now a good half hour in your argument. It follows from the arguments that it was necessary to gather the expertise together, to see what can be done to ensure that certain situations do not arise and to make a serious decision. In order for this decision to be sober, you should pass the effect of an angry Barbara and a disrespectful Penk. That effect is in the air. We can move left, right, you're right, it won't apply to him, but under this effect we accept this law. He can't be taken sober. Anyone who gets to know a little bit about the psychology of people knows that. So why are we taking him? I'm afraid we're going to accept it because of the sting, on the one hand, and because we're just before the elections, because we need to prove that we're going to show them that it's not going to happen anymore, I don't know what's going on together. I, Mr. Minister, don't know if that's still possible, I would hope that the government would be able to limit itself at this point. Elections are, in fact, a matter of democracy. But getting them at all costs, and it's not a sacred thing of democracy. This could be a lot of people's idea. Self - restraint in such procedures is a matter of wisdom. And here I appreciate this part of your character, of your business, in the face of other non-conclusions, I would suggest that you seriously consider whether this law will bring anything, except some "seagull" of political, pre-choice. I fear that it will be followed by a meeting in one of the halls of these premises, that we will have a veto on it, and even worse for you, as an expert in this field, I fear that as disproportionate he will experience a fate, one only expected fate in the Constitutional Court. I'm sorry to be involved in this kind of work at this time. I can't support it. I can't support it. I can't support the law. I think it's coming at a completely wrong time. It sends out completely wrong messages for the legal profession, but I agree that, as in the field of other subsystems, there is a lot of what to do in this area. I even think you've done some of the right things. They don't.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u268	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss it that hasn't discussed it yet? Mr. Minister, please, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members of the National Assembly! At this point, I must point out that the law is in the hands of the MPs of the National Assembly, that the Government no longer has it. That's the first thing I can answer. Secondly, at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice, some members of the opposition spoke, and I will use this expression, about the barbaries that appear and must be prevented, but they were not prepared to be prevented by such legislation. The MPs who proposed calling this meeting of the National Assembly evidently had this purpose. And let me also remind you of the words of my predecessor, the Minister of Justice, who once said that there can be a lot of swine in Slovenia, these are her words, but not every big pig is also a crime or it is impossible to prevent it. Some of these crimes have already been criminalized by the adoption of the new Penal Code, which has also been put on the feet of all the opposition and which has also been vetoed before the Council of State, but those acts, which were formerly only major crimes, have not been criminal, have now become criminal offences. I am convinced that this law also prevents future certain irregularities, such as that I do not use the term used at the meeting yesterday by a member of the opposition and was used by my predecessor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u270	Thank you. Anyone else want a word they didn't discuss? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. It's 10:00. This concludes this agenda item. I'm also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume in half an hour, that's 10 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u271	Dear Members and Members! We are continuing the meeting, moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 1st item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, following an urgent procedure. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. Excuse me. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u272	Thank you so much for your words, dear colleagues and colleagues! Despite the late hours, I think it makes sense to say a few words about the matter, which is at this point in the vote, in short, I promise. I want to express my dissatisfaction, and it is right to know, over the process of adopting the law on income. This is the law tabled by a group of opposition Members. This is the law for which the general debate has been called and for which the President of the National Assembly, Mr France Cukjat, convened or called for a general debate in the context of an already convened extraordinary meeting. This is the law that was already ready to be dealt with, I am talking about the opposition law, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia came just before the beginning and said that Parliament must deal with the government law as a matter of urgency. This is the law that President Tsukati, contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, placed on today's agenda of extraordinary meetings, denied business, denied the work of opposition Members because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia so requested. Today we've put together some kind of hybrid law because we can afford it. Why? Because in this government's mandate, we lost the autonomy it had and should have had the legislative branch of power. Dear colleagues and colleagues! What he is doing, not just the President of the Government or the government of Janez Janša, what the President of the National Assembly also permits is the destruction of the foundations of democracy. We will not support the proposed law in the Lip Group of Members. Believe me, this is an important reason. And that's why, I gave it to you, in the destruction of democracy and the autonomy of the legislative branch of power.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u273	We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. Conclusion of the legislative procedure for draft laws which are not the basis for consideration. Firstly, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the assembly to adopt the following decision: a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Milan Petk, is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 16. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the assembly to adopt the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on income following a reduced procedure submitted to the National Council for consideration by the State Council is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 12. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am also informing you that the legislative procedure for both laws is hereby terminated. And that concludes this item on the agenda. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyers, an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. I must inform you that the SD, LDS and Lipa groups have already announced obstruction. Please, Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u274	Just to be clear, the obstruction is still in effect, the forecast of obstruction is still in effect.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u275	Therefore, this point or the treatment of this 1.a point of obstruction to SD and LDS is valid. Is that right? Do you agree with this, Mr Lipa? Thank you very much. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled in Article 2. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 2. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 3. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Mr. Zagorac, what do you want? Excuse me? Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u276	Thank you for your word. Just adopted the amendment, as proposed by the coalition parliamentary groups, has in fact slightly improved what the Government has proposed, but the fact remains that they are judges or prosecutors and lawyers and judges in a deprived position. I'm surprised these amendments have been supported by those who say a permanent mandate is to blame for the backlog. I would be more surprised, given that the practice of the Government is such that it employs people who are not qualified in certain jobs, while these people are qualified. All I can tell you is that in the Lipa Group at this point below, we will not participate in the adoption of the law. I wish you every success, a well-respected coalition, to bring this law through with your indigenous supporters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u277	Thank you very much. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 2 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments or amendments to this article. Since I note that there is no one, there are probably no amendments, so I note that no amendments have been tabled in the proposal for a third reading law. At the same time, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that, due to amendments adopted in the second reading, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. The vote is under way. 43 Members and Members are present. The assembly is open, so we're voting next time. The vote is under way. I take it the choir is once again unconscionable - 43. Third time we'll vote in 10 minutes at 10:20.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u278	Dear Members and Members! We shall continue the meeting by decision and by third attempt to vote. We're voting. I note that, in the third trial, the assembly has not been concluded in the vote, so I conclude this point and you will be informed of the further attempt to vote in the future, not today. At the same time, I interrupt the meeting for five minutes, so that Members who have obstructed may come to the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u279	We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Declaration of Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union in the period July 2008 - December 2009. Since the competent working bodies have not adopted any amendments to the proposal for a declaration, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Zagorac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u280	Dear President, we didn't get along. My purpose was not to explain the voice, but that's what you concluded, given that I raised my hand, but we're also raising our hands procedurally. Since he's already been [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u281	Mr Zagorac, can I say my opinion? [[...]] I really figured because I didn't know what you wanted, because all you did was raise your hand. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u282	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u283	Go on, please, and tell me what you want next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u284	I did as soon as I got the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u285	You know I always ask.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u286	As soon as I got my word, I did. Given that he has already been violated today - and I think that he has been gravely violated - the first paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it seems to me that he has also been violated or the foundation of democracy in this house will be undermined. This house is increasingly subject to what the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is ordering. In this house there is also a culture, I think, a culture of speech changes according to calls from New Slovenia. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] To this end, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 73, I would ask you to take a 45-minute recess, as the Rules of Procedure do and allow us - I believe that you will not violate it - in order to agree on further procedures in the Lipa Group and on how we will vote on the proposed declaration. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u287	Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Puksich, please. You want to explain your voice? Thank you very much. On the proposal of the Member, I conclude this point and impose a break. I'm adjourning the session in 45 minutes. And we'll pick it up at 11:10.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u288	We continue with the interruption of agenda item 3 after a 45 - minute interruption. I'm asking the Lip Group if they want a word. Yeah. Here you go, Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u289	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me, my fellow Members and colleagues, to explain the decision we have taken in the context of the Lipa Group of Members at this 45-minute pre-vote meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u290	I'm sorry, I didn't understand you because there was a disturbance. Please, again.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u291	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u292	Mrs. Barbar Žginer Tavš has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u293	I hope that I will get these last three minutes in order to explain the position of the parliamentary group that we adopted before the final vote on, I believe that one very important document, which is called the Proposal for a Declaration on Guidelines for the Functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in the Institutions of the European Union in the period July 2008 - December 2009. It is next year and the role of Slovenia within the European Union. Such an important point that the government coalition had to place it at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Such an important point. [[...]] [[Debate in the parliamentary benches.]] - allow such an important point that only one Minister, Minister Podobnik, participated in the meeting of the National Assembly. [[...]] I mean, if you let me, I'll probably be able to cut into your world or understand, which I believe is very difficult, because a lot of people are very limited in understanding, even if someone comes from the other side, maybe they have a different view of things. This is such an important point that we had to consider at an urgent meeting; so important was the point that only one minister was present; so important was the point that 13 Members were present; so important was the point that it was a disgrace for the National Assembly, for the legislative branch of power, that the President of the National Assembly, Dr. France Tsukati, allowed himself to fall into the autonomy of running this Parliament. As a result of this work, respected colleagues and colleagues, in the context of the Lipe Group of Members, as the leader of the Group of Members - I have this opportunity under the Rules of Procedure - at this moment I predict obstruction [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] for this agenda item and for this sitting. [[...]] I believe, my fellow Members and colleagues, that this has shown how irrelevant today's meeting is, because the cultural dialogue that you referred to in one of today's points is that important point of the Presidency of the European Union, which you have not been able to win, is that of the coalition Members. And it's also one big minus, respected colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Since the competent working bodies have not adopted any amendments to the proposal for a declaration, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a declaration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Aleš Gulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u295	Mr President-in-Office. Before, I don't know, an hour and a half ago, I also announced to this point the obstruction of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia and, of course, we're staying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-17-SDZ4-Izredna-39.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Anyone else? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 47 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed declaration has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 39th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and I warn you to empty the benches with the materials, because tomorrow is a public presentation. Thank you very much. Good night.
