ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 38th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Anton Anderlič, Miran Jerič, Aurelio Juri, Alojz Posedel, Mrs Maria Possonec, Alojz Sok and Mrs Marjetka Uhan from 3 p.m. We're moving on to 30. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE - A NOTE TO THE POSITION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA ON THE QUESTIONS RELATED TO THE PART, THE ROLE AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE WORK OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND OTHER ORGANISES OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. I give the floor to Dr Danil Türk, President of the Republic of Slovenia, to present his position. Please. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members of Parliament, distinguished citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! First of all, I would like to thank all Members and Members for their presence at today's meeting, at which I would like to present to you, in accordance with Rule 224 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, some of my opinions and views. I have decided on this initiative after careful consideration and taking into account the seriousness of the topic that I want to talk about and which I wrote to the President of the National Assembly on 9 April this year. I was also led by experience, first by a message from the President of the National Assembly that you, Members and Members, would welcome my initiative. Later, consultations with the parliamentary groups at the time of the preparation of the proposal by the four candidates for constitutional judges allowed me to explain to all the parliamentary groups my idea of my performance in the National Assembly. The theme I have chosen for today's performance is one of the most fundamental positions of the country's operations. This is the position of the Constitutional Court, which is in a difficult situation. Indirectly, however, it is the situation of the judiciary as a whole and as widely as possible, on issues of the authority of the state authorities in the Republic of Slovenia in general. There is no doubt that from the point of view of development, especially from the point of view of our development during this period, one fundamental requirement is the authority of state institutions and the effectiveness of their functions, which is also a condition for their credibility and the trust of citizens. We cannot be completely satisfied with this, but some of our appearances must even concern us. An independent, effective and respected judiciary is the foundation of every rule of law. As in every independent youth country, the tradition of understanding the role and importance of the judiciary is only being established in the Republic of Slovenia and, therefore, as President of the country, I have the task of monitoring this development, presenting my views on it and drawing attention to certain fundamental issues that have arisen. Some of these issues related to the role of the judiciary are so serious that they have led me to conclude that I have to speak about them in the National Assembly as well as in the highest body of the legislative branch. This event is intended to - I would like to stress in particular - as an invitation to you, Members and Members to common concern and responsibility for broader processes that strengthen constitutionality and legality in the country, authority and trust in state institutions and, in this context, in particular, the authority of the judiciary, whose functioning is of the utmost importance for respect for human rights, the exercise of constitutionality and legality and thus of the rule of law in its entirety. I would also like to contribute to a broader social debate and encourage awareness-raising of the importance of all these issues. I hope that the views presented will also be taken into account when further considering and deciding on matters under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. And of course, first of all, it is a matter of creating the position and role of the Constitutional Court. The procedure for the election of four new Constitutional Judges has been successfully completed and it is therefore possible to focus on the broader issues of the constitutional court's position in our legal system and its competences, not least on the legal regulation of the constitutional judges' election process itself. On the basis of the findings of legal experts and the Constitutional Court itself, it has become clear that in order to achieve effective protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and to effectively preserve the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, it is necessary to amend those provisions of Chapter 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia which, in view of those fundamental purposes, are not appropriate. In a series of its annual reports, the Constitutional Court found that, in the current constitutional framework, it was overloaded with cases which, by their nature and weight, did not need constitutional protection, and this caused the protection and action of the Constitutional Court to be weak or too slow where necessary. The legal profession already critically assesses certain decisions of the Constitutional Court in which it has not addressed important issues for the legal system. Although the amendments to the Constitutional Court Act have already been implemented, the practice of the Constitutional Court has shown that without a change in the Constitution, the current situation will not be significantly improved. It is therefore essential that the competent authorities of the Republic of Slovenia, together with experts in the field of constitutional science, approach the development of more concrete proposals for solutions aimed at improving the current situation. It may not be possible to achieve more concrete results in this mandate of the National Assembly, but it is only right that this process should begin as soon as possible, since there is no obstacle that it cannot be concluded even after the new National Assembly has taken place. Thus, sufficient time will be available for professional and public debate without the consideration of these issues stalling for an appropriate moment, which usually never comes. Accordingly, I am taking the initiative to amend the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia relating to the competent and functioning of the Constitutional Court. This initiative contains the following six points. Firstly: The Constitutional Court shall terminate its judgment on the constitutionality and legality of the regulations. These issues could be resolved by regular courts in the context of their proceedings, and mechanisms already in the Constitution are available to protect an individual in the event of non-constitutional or illegal acts. Second: The Constitutional Court shall terminate its decision on disputes concerning jurisdiction between courts and other national authorities. This jurisdiction should be given to the ordinary court. Thirdly, the introduction of an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the law is limited to cases where a legal or natural person is not able to file a constitutional complaint for the protection of constitutional rights. The constitutionality of the law can also be called for in court proceedings and the constitutional rights of the parties can also be protected after the conclusion of the proceedings by the Constitutional Court on the basis of a constitutional complaint, to the extent that it deems necessary. Fourthly: The Constitutional Court shall be given the opportunity to decide freely which constitutional appeal, in view of its importance for the rule of law and the protection of constitutional rights, is to be brought before the Constitutional Court without having to formally determine all constitutional complaints lodged. In this way, the Constitutional Court would be burdened by the formal proceedings of those cases where constitutional complaints would not be accepted at all. It could thus be more focused on those who have been accepted for consideration, while, according to their capacity, it could only determine the scope of matters that would enable the effective exercise of the constitutional function. This would require the self-confidence and authority of the Constitutional Authority, which is also linked to the great responsibility of the Constitutional Court. Fifthly: The Constitution should provide that the Constitutional Court may decide on less important matters in the Chambers, since in this way it would be possible to have a rational participation of constitutional judges in the decision-making process in the same way as in other State and inter-State courts. Sixth: The system of election of constitutional judges changes. The details of the new regime will need to be discussed in full. In doing so, it is essential to ensure the timely appointment of high-level legal experts to the seats of the judges of the Constitutional Court, while the procedure must maintain respect and an appropriate attitude towards candidates for these highest functions. This can also be an example of a comparison with arrangements in other European countries. Dear Members and Members! I've taken the key points. I also gave the initiative with this content to the President of the National Assembly today. I want careful examinations and constructive discussions that will allow for the reform that we urgently need. In addition to the question of reform of the Constitutional Court and the way in which judges of this Court are elected, I would like to draw attention to another fundamental problem of the constitutional judiciary and the respect of the rule of law in our time. It follows from the 2007 report of the Constitutional Court that at the end of the previous period, as many as 17 decisions were not implemented and 13 of those decisions of the Constitutional Court, which established the unconstitutionality of laws, the legislator did not respond to them. This is a high number of unfulfilled decisions of the Constitutional Court and I call on the National Assembly to make new efforts to resolve the issues arising out of those decisions and to eliminate the unconstitutionality. The next question I would like to talk about is to some extent related to what has just been mentioned, but it is somewhat more general: whether the functioning of the judicial branch authorities in the Republic of Slovenia is fully effective and what affects the current level of efficiency. Constitutional and other courts, both general courts and specialised courts, face great challenges as to how effective and legally sound and responsible means of ensuring the proper resolution of the disputes before them. It must not be forgotten that the recognition of rights is often a lost right and that, therefore, every stage of judicial decision needs to be given an appropriate role and the relationship between these rates should be precisely determined. In a modern state of law, it is unacceptable that the first hearing of a dispute between the parties can be held for several years and that a legal judgment in a dispute can be expected for almost a decade. For several years now, the Government has been serious about resolving these problems, and I would like to add some views and suggestions myself, and of course the Lukenda programme is something I support. First of all, I would like to point out the expertly supported conclusions that the length of judicial proceedings is not only due to the inadequate or even poor part of the judges and courts, as this situation is occasionally simplified. The effectiveness of the judiciary depends also on other circumstances affecting the judicial decision and on the respect and enforceability of the court decisions by which the court ruled in the dispute. The number of disputes which the courts decide must be highlighted as the main reason for such a level of judicial backlog. According to statistics, the courts receive more than half a million new cases each year, of which more than one hundred thousand are considered by the courts to be more important cases. This information is of course worrying, since it means that virtually every other citizen is involved in any court proceedings. There are probably more ways in Slovenia to reduce such a large number of court-martial disputes. In order to reduce the number of judicial proceedings, our relationship with other fellow citizens needs to be fundamentally changed. For the courts cannot resolve all our differences and personal differences. Nor can the courts replace our will and capacity for mutual respect and communication. The basic human honesty, the ability to understand the view and position of others and the willingness to compromise, where necessary, are the virtues we have in Slovenia and we need to value them more and develop them more. These cannot be replaced by any court proceedings. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the awareness that bringing an action is the last remedy when no agreement is really possible anymore and when other forms of out-of-court dispute resolution are also waived. Only in this way will the burden of the courts be reduced to a reasonable level and those insurmountable disputes can be resolved quickly and effectively even on the path of justice. In addition, alternative dispute resolution mechanisms must be developed and implemented in our legal system: mediation, reconciliation, arbitration, as well as a preliminary assessment of the possibility of the success of justice. Courts need to be unloaded and their role developed for the needs of the most complex disputes that need to be taken the most time. In alternative forms of resolution, the urgency and expertise of advising parties, which is always more natural in out-of-court procedures than in truth, would help to ensure a more successful resolution of disputes. It is understandable that such methods of dispute resolution would be easier to establish in civil and certain administrative matters, particularly those in the field of environmental protection, while, of course, in the criminal area, such options are less. Among the circumstances that have a significant impact on the work of the courts, further and independently of what I have just talked about, it is also important to frequently amend the legislation under which the courts judge. The continuous and comprehensive amendment of laws and, therefore, their frequent nonconsistence also leads to the exceptional burden of judges to seek an answer to the newly opened questions arising from legislation and to establish a new case law. The rapid and repeated change in legislation also leads to a lack of clarity on what is legal and legally permissible for citizens, and therefore the possibility of mutual agreement is less. As a result, the defendants and the defendants also have unclear prospects for success in the judicial dispute, which leads to unfounded expectations and dissatisfaction with the work of the courts which are not and cannot be held responsible for such results. Any legal change, and if necessary, therefore also entails a requirement for a certain period of time necessary for the adjustment and thus a certain extension of the proceedings and an increase in their number. Above all, and I would stress this, fundamental system laws require a thorough professional reflection - which I have already pointed out before the last day of my speech at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana - and, in particular, I stress the widest possible support in the National Assembly. But it was both important to ensure their authority. I therefore call on the National Assembly to limit the scope of the amendment of the new legal solutions and to carefully verify in each new proposal whether it is indeed a relationship that requires new legislation and whether it will not bring disproportionate burdens on the courts. This is particularly true in a sensitive time before the general elections, in which other objectives and other short-term interests can be brought to the fore, such as the protection of citizens' rights and prosperity and the long-term development of our country. The special question, which is an important aspect of the rule of law, is whether in the Republic of Slovenia the authority and respect of the authorities of the judiciary in the exercise of their functions is ensured. The Court has an important function, since it is concerned with the resolution of disputes arising in the life and work of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and it assesses the legality of acts and acts of public authorities and thus carries out an important supervisory function and function of limiting the power of authority. This allows for further development, which would be difficult without it, if not already disabled. In this regard, it is essential to ensure the authority and respect of both the decisions of the courts and the judicial institutions themselves. Therefore, questions of the relations between the State authorities and individuals with regard to the judgments and decisions they have issued have a decisive impact on the effectiveness of the work of the courts. Since ancient times, the rule of "Res indications for veritate habetu" has been known - the thing decided by the court is true. This rule means that the legal judgment ends the dispute and that the judgment must be respected and enforced, even though we disagree with it. At this point, the rule of law stands and falls. For if the judgments were to be carried out only when the parties agreed with them, it would not be possible to resolve even the most common dispute, to close the perpetrator of the offences, to terminate the acts, to repeal the unlawful or unlawful decisions of the administrative authority, etc. Let me therefore point out once again that compliance with the judgments must be modelled by the National Assembly itself in the enforcement of the decisions of the Constitutional Court which imposes upon it the abolition of the unconstitutionality of a particular provision. This path can also be difficult and difficult, as is known, not only for us, for example, in the case of so - called deleted ones, but also abroad. We all know the case of the decision of the Austrian Constitutional Court concerning bilingual local inscriptions in the Austrian Republic, but it must lead to the end which confirms respect for the judgment. The open questions arising from the 17 unexecuted judgments of the Constitutional Court must be resolved and must be resolved by those authorities responsible in the manner provided for by the Constitution and the law. Ladies and gentlemen, you will agree with my assessment that it is unacceptable for the courts to expose themselves to flat-rate or even completely unbridled media criticism, which is sometimes even politically motivated. Dissatisfaction with individual judgment does not in itself mean that the judgment is criminal, that the judgment is wrong must not lead to the understanding that due to this judgment there is no need to take account. While any judgment may be subject to professional criticism, even the judgments of the highest courts, such criticism must be realistic, legally reasoned and maintained respect for the institution of the judiciary. There are countries in the world where freedom of expression is significantly better and more developed than we are, while the attitude towards the judiciary is much more respectful. Freedom is not self-destructive; freedom is not without the fundamental responsibility of public expression. Criticism must therefore be legally substantiated and it must also be clear that it does not give rise to a lack of respect for the judgment but, in particular, a lack of respect for the court. Each of us needs an independent, impartial and respected court with proper authority, even though we do not all seem to be aware of it. The contempt and disrespect of the court in the event of a loss of the dispute also means that this court will no longer be taken into account in the following case when the second dispute is won. This loses the forum which is intended for the authoritarian final decision of the dispute, which, despite the legal judgment, continues and burdens all the affected. Courts and judges are not political actors involved in public appearances whose function would require permanent public support. Therefore, it cannot be expected that their decisions will be based elsewhere than in law or will be decided in the light of the public opinion expected; on the contrary, a judge must be an example of impartiality, independence and therefore popular support and pressure must not and cannot guide his decisions. When it comes to protecting the rights of an individual, it must sometimes go against the will of the majority. As a result, the effectiveness of the judiciary cannot be measured solely on the basis of the satisfaction of the public with the work of the courts and on this basis either to reward or punish the judges. If we did, we would move away from the pursuit of justice and the rule of law, and we could finally get into a position where we could re-create the so-called human tribunals, which we regret to recall from various revolutionary periods. I therefore reiterate my call that, in general, and particularly during the pre-election period, unwarranted and flat-rate criticisms must be maintained at the expense of the judiciary and the judiciary in the competition for higher public support or for better electoral results. The desire for the effective functioning of the judiciary raises the question of how to ensure that excellent lawyers will also perform their judicial functions in the future. Only by ensuring the proper position of the judiciary and the judge, their respect and effective protection of the independence of the judiciary can it be expected that the most prominent legal experts will be employed in the framework of the Constitutional Court and other courts in the future. The call of a judge is serious, responsible and demanding. The execution of a judicial function is a real profession in the sense represented by Primož Trubar, who, as an expression, has also been established in the Slovenian language when someone is called to pursue justice and legality through his conscience and with all his powers and expertise. This profession of judges and judges today, in its entirety, does well, zealously and loyally. In many critical cases of individual court decisions, it is too often forgotten that those who perform the profession of judge in the Republic of Slovenia to solve hundreds of thousands of complex cases have also earned praise. And in this place, I commend you. It is of concern, however, that the profession of a judge is valued with inappropriate complexity and the meaning of their function, which in some cases leads to unsuccessful calls for judges and lack of interest from top lawyers in this profession, especially in smaller Slovenian places. The functioning of the rule of law is a worrying development that needs to be halted and redirected. It is unacceptable that development in the direction where it continues to be necessary for the posts of Constitutional Judges, Supreme Judges and other holders of judicial function, the highest legal experts are particularly invited and persuaded to accept this work in order to ensure general prosperity, despite the inadequate situation, despite the exposure, despite irresponsible criticisms and attacks. And it will be difficult for all of us when top lawyers stop responding to these calls and rather find less responsible and more paid services elsewhere. Even such good and legally qualified applicants and defendants cannot hope for the success and victory of their arguments unless they are understood and judged by excellent legal experts who, as judges, will decide on such matters. Therefore, a thorough consideration is needed as to whether the intended system of awarding judges who have rejected them as undesirable is, in fact, one that adequately contributes to the quality and success of ensuring a judicial function. However, it should not be forgotten that the position of the judge as the holder of the judicial authority is subject to the appropriate responsibilities for their work, and it is also necessary to ensure that the relevant procedures for the exercise of judicial responsibility are implemented, but it must be based on ensuring the independence of the judge and be in line with the fundamental principles of the constitutional order. And with the independence of the judiciary, it is also necessary to mention the independence of other parts of the judiciary, which also have a significant impact on the effectiveness of the courts. In particular, I would like to stress the constitutional independence and independence of the lawyer. The latter is one of the key, and it is therefore necessary to protect and respect and to regulate the way this service is carried out only in due consideration and in the most serious respect of those constitutional standards. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ensuring the effectiveness of the functioning of the judiciary is a process that needs to be properly guided and maintained in the context of our joint efforts. Fast and simple solutions are not always possible, so long-term development must be directed in the right direction and I believe that, with the cooperation of all state authorities and with the understanding and support of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, we will also be able to do so. This objective to strengthen our common effort to improve the quality of justice is also intended for my performance today. What I have said today about justice is also applicable in a broader sense to other state institutions. The rule of law and the social state require effective and responsible public authority. Without you, our development will be slower, perhaps even inadequate. The welfare of our society and of each individual in it require a quality state, which implies the rule of law and this begins with justice. It is therefore worth paying special attention and first concern. That is why, given the seriousness of the problems we have in this area, I have chosen this subject for my performance today in front of the National Assembly. I am grateful to you for your attention and I hope that we will be able to discuss these topics constructively and that they will lead to successful development. Thank you very much. Let's go. Let's go. Let's
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u3	To the President of the Republic, Dr. Danil Türk, I thank you for your position and performance in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. This concludes exactly the agenda. And we're moving on to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION ON PUBLIC TRAFFICS, Urgent Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Minister of Transport, mag. Radovan Žerjav, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members! The proposed law introduces vignettes from 1.7.2008 as a means of paying tolls for the use of all toll roads for a fixed period of time for vehicles whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 3,500 kilograms. The introduction of the vignette toll system will contribute: firstly, to increasing the flow of road traffic; secondly, to reducing congestion at the time of traffic and during the tourist season; thirdly, to reducing pollution of the environment, in particular air and land along the highway, as roadblocks in front of the toll station result in emissions of brake linings; and the acceleration of vehicles increases pollution by exhaust gases, most of which are greenhouse gases; fourthly, to achieving more rapid national environmental targets in reducing greenhouse gas emissions; fifthly, to increasing road safety, as the favourable price of annual and semi-annual vignettes stimulates the use of roadways and thus decommissioning of parallel road connections; sixthly, to facilitate the transition to free-road road tolling. The wine toll system will be introduced on all roads operated and maintained by the toll-road operator, Dars. As you know, it is a measure of a temporary nature, as the wines will be introduced for a transitional period to a definitively fair toll system. As you know, we are preparing satellite tolls in the free traffic stream, where we will pay as much as we will transport miles. A passenger will have to buy a wine before entering the toll road and put it on the windshield of the vehicle. Vinjeta will only be available for one vehicle and will be designed to destroy after removal. Two types of vineyards, namely annual vineyards, will be introduced during the calendar year of purchase and in December of the previous and January of the following year, and a semi-annual wine, which will be valid for six consecutive months from the date of purchase. The description of the toll payment or the correct use of the vignettes will be carried out by the toll-road manager, whose authorised officials, the so-called toll supervisors, will, in the event of detected infringements against the violators, lead and decide in a rapid infringement procedure. In addition to the toll inspectors, the police, the Traffic Inspectorate and the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia will also exercise control, which will also have the powers of the toll supervisor. All those bodies are also criminal authorities, which means that offenders on the spot will be fined. A fine of between EUR 300 and 800 is prescribed for the toll road without valid stickers, i.e. no toll payments, as well as for the purpose of preventing authorised officials from exercising those powers. The prescribed fine is completely comparable to the amount of fines prescribed in other European countries, such as Switzerland, which has between €330 and €800, Hungary 260 and Austria, between €300 and €3,000. It is, of course, necessary to take into account the fact that the applicable criminal law allows the offender to pay only half of the fine imposed, that is, 150 euros if, of course, the offender pays the fine within eight days of the legality of the order of payment or the decision issued by the criminal authority in favour of a rapid infringement procedure. Thank you very much, so much for a start.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u5	Thank you. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr Josip Bajc, President, to present the report of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u6	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Secretary with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Transport Committee shall be held at its 22nd emergency meeting, on 18. 4. 2008 examined the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads, which was forwarded to the National Assembly by the Government to the legislative procedure. 4. 2008 The government has proposed that the proposal for a law be dealt with in a rapid manner. Representatives of Dars, the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the Council of State and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the opening presentation, the Secretary of State, Dr. Peter Verlic, presented the reasons for amending and supplementing the proposal by law. The law lays down two toll classes for this toll, namely one-way motor vehicles and two-way motor vehicles. The law provides that the toll for the use of toll roads shall be paid for a certain period of time by means of a special sticker, a winch, and shall specify the method of tolling with a winch. An important novelty of the proposed law is also the regulation of control over tolling. This control imposes the law of toll-road operators and lays down in detail its mandate in this regard. In order to carry out the control, the controller shall have special authorised persons, toll supervisors. In detail, the law also regulates actions in the event of infringements - an appropriate record shall be kept by road traffic controllers to carry out effective control. The law also provides that the offence authority of this law is the operator of toll roads and that the infringement procedure is governed by the authorised officials designated by the decision of the toll-road operator under the rules on offences. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service made specific proposals to most articles, which have also been taken into account in the amendments and correctly to the Committee’s comments on Articles 1 and 4 of the Act under consideration. The members of the committee supported the bill's proposal in the debate on the individual leaders and highlighted the issue of the implementation of the Resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, it was considered necessary to increase the volume of toll for freight vehicles above 3,500 kilograms. The members of the committee asked the drafter a number of questions relating to the timing of the introduction of vignettes, to ensure a sufficient number of annual and semi-annual vignettes, to introduce tolls on fast roads not paid in the current toll system, and to fear that the payment of tolls or to purchase vignettes would be subject to a large number of citizens who have not paid toll so far. They considered that the introduction of tolling would result in inequalities between drivers who regularly use the motorway system and those who only occasionally use it. The introduction of vinjets as a means of tolling and the price of vinjets was also considered to stimulate increased use of motorways, thereby reducing the burden of roads going through settlements and thus contributing to reducing the negative effects on the housing environment. The Transport Committee has adopted all the amendments tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, but has not adopted the SD Group's amendment. The Transport Committee adopted its amendment to Articles 1 and 9. After the discussion on the articles of the draft law and the vote on the amendments and amendments tabled by the Committee in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Transport Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended law incorporating all the amendments adopted by the Committee shall be prepared. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u7	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u8	Your Honors are here! I don't know if there's anything wrong with this country or if it's all right. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has recently come to Parliament in various areas with proposals for laws that are extremely attractive at the first ball or at the first wave. In short, the opposition should do what is usually done in some of the established democracies. So he's preparing laws that don't ask about financial obligations. He is preparing the laws that are supposed to be, once again, very, very favourable or user-friendly to the first ball. The circle of users spreads from the title of World War II, from the address where we have a connection with the invaders, not least with the Roman Catholic Church, to the denationalisation procedures, on a proposal from the Government, you extended the deadline. The opposition, however, is one who acts as a very responsible government. So he always asks whether we have the money or not to hold future generations accountable for it and whether we can pay our obligations at all. In short, it doesn't fly criticism or opposition to the government, but usually these roles have been replaced. As a rule, the opposition should come up with proposals that do not have financial coverage, but are extremely attractive, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should be the one with a hard back and make sure that the financial commitments already accepted can be paid. And the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads, the measure of temporary nature or period, is one of these typical laws. After all the public analyses it is supported by people, otherwise we would prefer that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia join in issuing so-called one-day stickers or vignettes for users of motorways in our country. I am also personally convinced that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should do this and offer it to those who, at least to the monthly drivers, do not have to pay them and thus fill the government budget to use motorways. But for those drivers who use highways at least daily, weekly, of course this calculation is very convenient or better said very good. But what is the purpose of paying highways or tolls? The purpose is probably - and I sincerely hope that it is not only this - that we put another burden on people with something else. The purpose is basically to pay the costs incurred or incurred by the motorways of the lowest possible cross or by motorways. And the simulation suggests that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that 60% of drivers should equip their vehicles with the mentioned label, in order to monitor the current flow of financial resources into the state treasury or in the treasury for reconstruction, debt repayment and similar things. Statistics in Europe suggest that 60% is stronger than in the average European country. And what we can only find out through this dimension - that of course obligations will not be settled. But Slovenia, despite the fact that it presides over the European Union, is not so popular within the framework of international financial institutions that they will say: yes, dear Slovenians, but now we will forgive your debts, but we will have to pay these debts in spite of that. So, the first serious thought that I fear the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not considered. The following is not about non-payment of credits, but also about what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia vehemently and with a large pump says will reduce congestion. I personally do not believe that congestion will be reduced given that infrastructure - that is, toll houses still remain, that trucks will continue to go through the so-called ramp, and pay a physical toll there. In short, there are elements in this law that are popular. And as long as we continue to find so much wisdom to introduce daily, or [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] guilty for a shorter period of time, the law would be to welcome, in particular with the eyes of the opposition Member. [[...]] However, I am a little concerned about the responsibility or unwillingness to carry out the calculation of what will happen if the matter does; and experts estimate that it will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u9	Thank you. Mag. Tomaž Štebe will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Very nice greetings, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! After almost a half-second decade of introduction and development and inconsistent modification of the current mixed hybrid, closed-open toll system, the first step begins in a more balanced and proportionate free-flow tolling for different categories. This is also the first measure or change in favour of infrastructure users, transport safety, energy consumption and time and not least the environment. The introduction of vinjets is in fact the simplest way or means of transition to smooth and unimpeded tolling. The Slovenian Democratic Party supports the amendment of the Law on Public Roads and the Action Plan for the gradual introduction of a modern, long-term, strategic, cost-effective and functional electronic tolling system with satellite location. The SDS supports the gradual removal of roadblocks and smooth toll-driving, as this will increase safety and reduce travel time, thereby reducing the cost of driving and finally the environmental burden. We fully agree with the proposal for a transitional introduction of the charging of road and fast roads for passenger cars. The proposed prices and two choices follow the objective of wider use of motorways, for which they are actually built. The simplicity of choice and some kind of quantity discount is in support of the purchase decision. This will significantly reduce the avoiding of motorways, burdening the use of parallel roads and environmental impacts. Transport conditions and safety on parallel state roads will improve. It is also important to reduce the imbalance between tolls for passenger and freight vehicles. Free traffic flows are introduced gradually, first on motorways and fast roads and for passenger cars and engines. A new electronic satellite toll system shall be introduced for all vehicles exceeding 3.5 tonnes of total mass in the middle of the coming year. What the Slovenian Democratic Party has always advocated is now gradually being achieved. The move was achieved through great and long-lasting efforts to argue and overcome strong forces defending the current inadequate and unfair tolling system, initially in July 2007, by amending the e-traffic action plan and now with its accelerated introduction, which is the most important priority of the new Minister of Transport, with all the support of the Prime Minister of the Government. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, the following is important to us: the interest of users - this is the practicality, comfort, safety, time and costs; a sustainable attitude - this is a lower environmental burden; a smaller use of energy - the management of transport infrastructure; the purpose of the construction of motorways and fast roads is its attractiveness for transit and freight travel; transport policy - the shift of traffic and freight to motorways, especially international and heavy goods, and of course - the balance between benefits and consequences is improving between passenger and freight vehicles. Attractiveness of use rather than deterrence is essential for unloading other roads, the environment, for less use of energy, fuel during driving and, lastly, for greater safety. This achieves a transport-transport, economic and environmental sustainability objective and aims to build motorways. However, their use is not to avoid and redirect transit flows and cargoes to motorways and railways. The introduction of vignettes into the SDS is understood and accepted as a way of moving into traffic, free traffic - into irregular driving and tolling by stopping or slowing down. With the introduction of a satellite toll system for trucks, the traffic will be completely relaxed. There will be no more toll stations, no more road traffic for tolling. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads, which introduces blames in Slovenia, is not necessary in our opinion. We believe that Slovenia does not need vignette for a simple reason because it does not have a modern state road network. Only the motorway cross is essential enough to allow us to think reasonably about the introduced tolling system by means of vignettes. In addition, we would like to draw attention to the following extremely important fact. The change in the road toll system at the time the Government decided to build motorways with credits must be very thoughtful and, above all, coordinated with how we will convert the leased loans. Unfortunately, we note that this is a reckless act that will bring great difficulty in providing Dars with the funds to repay the loans. Dars is already in charge of 3.5 billion euros today, and an additional EUR 1 billion is planned to complete the highway cross. In addition to the very serious problem which the vines certainly do not solve and raise very large questions, we must also point out that tolling with vignettes means flat-rate tolling, which goes hand in hand especially for those who use motorways daily and very much. Those who do not have a highway will also be burdened and paid in the same way as those who use roads daily. So the vines, the subsidies, so the vineyards subsidize those who are most burdened by roads, the ones that cause them the most weariness, and we subsidize those who are also the most polluters of the environment. This is contrary to all the principles of the functioning of the European Union. So, the Social Democrats insist that we must adhere to the European principle that the polluter also pays the right price for what it does. The costs of introducing vignettes as a temporary tolling system are, in our view, equally unjustified. The introduction of vignettes is much more expensive than the modernisation of the existing toll system. For €5 million today, we can upgrade the existing microwave toll system and get it in a very short time, or we could talk about already having a free-traffic toll system in Slovenia for a total of €5 million. The problem of trucks would have been solved and all these frontal toll stations would not actually cause any more congestion than we face on highways today. However, the Government has not even given a word of explanation why it does not wish to update the existing microwave toll system, which would allow for the immediate upgrade of these ABC cards in particular, instead of meeting today that 8 million euros will have to be recovered from the funds already paid for using ABC cards. The answer to why this is more effective is not to be seen in this law. And there is also a lack of response in this law in the part that relates to the breakdown of existing toll systems or stations. How much costs will be associated with the collapse of toll stations, and this law does not randomly show. There is also no answer in this law to what will happen to the concession contract between the State and Dars by introducing vineyards. Indeed, the change in this toll system certainly interferes with this concession contract, which is crucial for how maintenance will be carried out and how the construction of the motorway cross will be completed. And also re-employment of tollers in the toll system in controllers means that we will meet some more uniformed girls and men in Slovenia. In Slovenia, in addition to police officers and editors, we will be supervised by uniformed supervisors on highways in the future. In order to mitigate these consequences, we propose that the Social Democrats be exempted from the tolling system of all road routes, connecting roads and fast roads with which we can get to the motorway cross. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u14	Nice greeting - thank you very much - to the Minister with the team, colleague and president of the National Assembly. Two months have passed since the Minister of Transport at the government press conference announced that they are considering a different system of charging highways. Instead of the current toll, drivers will have to buy annual or semi-annual vineyards according to the Austrian or Swiss model. At that time, all politicians, as well as the majority of the Slovenian public, considered that this was an urgent statement and that it was a reflection on the government, but we all know that the idea was more than on paper, especially in the head of Mr Janša's Government, so that there will be no realisation and that Minister Žerjav, despite this command, had to admit defeat and would not implement this order. It wasn't like that. The order was clearly clear enough. As a result, if anyone were to disobey, neither did I, and after exercising numbers that cannot be proved or rejected, is the law before us that introduces blame on the daily life of the Slovenians. This is the only reason for today’s consideration of the law, not of other systemic changes to the law. And the Government once again proves that there is no listening to the preparation of strategies in this area, that the resolution on transport policy itself, which it has drafted and adopted by the votes of the coalition Members, is unnecessary to the National Assembly, which it has adopted in one way or another, solely because of its form and content. If I were to take it seriously, I would at least explain to this law why it deviates from some of the objectives set out in the resolution. The law or the introduction of vinjets for the payment of motorways is an experiment by the government, which is not supported by any current economic study, it is not just a statement, but a statement by Dr. Zlatnik, a member of the administration of Dars in charge of finance, and it means pure gambling with the sustainability of the highway programme and consequently with public finances. The absence of the administration of Dars at the Transport Committee - at that time only a member of the maintenance board, there was no one else, as not today - shows what representatives of managers think about the proposed solutions. They are likely aware that the consequences of this law can be revealed already this year and undisputedly in 2009. And then there will be really difficult remedial consequences for the country. While the EU advocates a shift of traffic flows from road to other transport subsystems, while stressing the importance of integrating external costs into transport costs - these are the costs of environmental pollution, costs of loss, sometimes congestion, costs of road accidents - and when it is clear that toll is no longer just an instrument for financing, maintaining and building motorways, but a traffic policy measure to distribute and redirect traffic from overloaded motorways to a significantly less burdened public transport system and an environmental measure with a system of different altitudes of tolls in relation to traffic burdens, our government, our Prime Minister and coalition parties are looking for solutions to the electorate who do not achieve any of the above-mentioned objectives. They do not deal with empty buses, empty trains, empty passenger cars, in which there is one driver alone, i.e. with questions that would solve a number of problems, but the government prevents us from adopting the law by emergency procedure, as otherwise there will be difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the country. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that in Janševa the party has realized that the autumn elections will have irreparable consequences for their party, not for the country, unless they give the Slovenians any more pre-election gifts, and that is only the reason for the rush, despite the unverified calculations on the effects of the introduction of vineyards. Unless they think they're a country. What have they been doing for almost four years? Minister Bozič assured us how the electronic toll system would be introduced in 2008, Prime Minister Žerjav first got angry, because when he ran for minister, he did not hear enough, and he promised to try to do so some year later and then to ensure that such toll system would be introduced in 2010 for sure. And which of these assurances is or will be fulfilled? Nothing. Of course, it is also a political responsibility and no one wants to offer it for assessment. This is our democracy and its political culture. By introducing vignettes we are working a step back instead of European practice, as we are returning to the period we called 'balkanism'. Let some of you forgive me for using this term. Instead of improving and upgrading the existing one, Europeans are a comparable step backwards. Some statements and information from the European Commission show that they are already closely following ours in Brussels. [[...]] [[the warning sign for the end.]] Time doesn't allow longer exposure. Let me conclude by saying that the LDS Members will act on their decision on all unanswered questions when voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with a team, respectable colleagues and colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group we support and welcome amendments to the Law on Public Roads, which introduce a solution to the collection of tolls by buying vignettes. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the proposed solution is limited in time, pending the introduction of electronic tolling in free traffic for all vehicles. It must be acknowledged that the current system of tolling on Slovenian motorways is unsatisfactory, you might even say, outdated and ineffective, but also unfair. Thus, every day at toll stations we can witness to long convoys of vehicles and congestion, which, of course, causes not only the intolerance of drivers, but also causes significant pollution of the environment, atmosphere and land along highways. In our Group of Members, we pay particular attention to the financial effects of the solution in the proposed solution. If we look at the proposed tolling solution from a financial point of view, we believe and trust the bill's proponents who have done a lot of calculations, simulations and mathematical modelling to prove that the solution to the introduction of vignettes represents the optimal solution to to tolling at this point. What remains to be stressed is a projection that predicts a better financial buy-in, which is particularly good information for us. The current system is bad, as we all know, only two-thirds of the tolls are collected, and despite what the Commission of the National Assembly has found for public finances, this system is still sustainable, it is said, a system that still allows Dars' credit to be repaid. The attractive price of vineyards, annual and semi-annual, is certainly a factor that will certainly encourage road users to use motorways and not use regional roads. This will certainly contribute to greater safety and less congestion on our roads. Increasing safety, even if only for nuance, on roads with greater use of motorways is the following reason why the law is worthy of support. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposed solution to the introduction of vineyards while calling on the Government to make further efforts to implement electronic tolls as soon as possible, which will truly mean the most fair payment of the use of toll roads. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, all together another nice greeting! Lately, the subject of tolling has been so much said that it is difficult to say anything that has not been repeated many times. However, I should like to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group on this bill. With the amendment of the Law on Public Roads, we switch to to tolling using all toll roads for a certain period of time. There's a reason. Since such a method does not require stopping vehicles at toll stations, it will increase the flow of motorways and reduce congestion at toll stations, thus lower environmental pollution and, in the final phase, easier transition to free movement of tolls. Of course, this toll applies only to vehicles with a mass not exceeding 3500 kilograms, for other vehicles the European Directive provides only for tolls, depending on the distance transported along the motorway. The bill clearly sets out the level of payment for motorcycles, which has not been practiced so far, and motor vehicles, as already known by the wider world, semi-annual and annual vignettes. Let me also briefly comment, in our view, on the most problematic aspect of the introduction of vineyards, this is financial sustainability. The duration of the vineyards and the price of those vineyards were determined on the basis of two assessments. Estimates of how many vignettes will be collected by domestic drivers and estimates of how many vignettes will be sold to foreigners who will be driving through or across our country. The combination, as it is, is more favourable for Slovenian drivers, which is welcomed and supported by the Slovenian People's Party Group. As far as domestic drivers are concerned, the assessment is more or less accurate, but as far as foreign drivers are concerned, who are supposed to buy vignettes, it is unlikely that the assessment can be as accurate as for domestic drivers. We certainly hope and believe that the funds that will be raised from the sale of vineyards will be sufficient to cover the envisaged construction, maintenance of motorways and repayment of credit obligations under this heading. We certainly hope that, due to a possible miscalculation, the state budget will not be burdened. But also this and this system of vignettes can be corrected, unfortunately with delay. With regard to the issue of the duration and prices of vineyards, there is also a fear that foreigners who are paying, will avoid and thus cause other local roads to be burdened. Fear is justified, but the question is whether it will come to this. We don't think so, but if so, at least not in the same number as some psychiatrists have warned us about it. Let me also touch on the issue of righteousness. What is more fair is a difficult philosophical question and often very subjective. Or a fairer current system, which has allowed some permanent users to drive free of charge on highways and some have to pay tolls for the same distance for more than 30 years. Or more justly, this system, introduced by this amendment of the law, will certainly be more beneficial for permanent users than for occasional users of motorways. Certainly due to the advantages of the new amended law, we believe that the introduction of the system for Slovenian citizens is certainly better. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Matej Lahovnik will present the position of Ambassador Zares. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u20	Dear Members! Mr. President, the Honourable Minister! It is difficult to say that the current tolling system is fair. Finally, in Slovenia we only toll 63% of roads and the fact is that some highway sections are not even tolled, others are tolled and there are already fundamental cases of injustice. The most fundamental example of injustice is certainly the relationship between the toll paid by drivers of passenger vehicles and the toll paid by drivers of freight vehicles. This is the point that should be regulated in Slovenia, and in this sense in the parliamentary group We are also making an amendment. The fact is that this price of an annual and semi-annual vignette, which certainly also contains a pre-election discount and we do not oppose it, should be taken into account, on the other hand, that funds should be provided elsewhere. That trucks are the ones that cause the most damage on Slovenian highways and that trucks are the ones that we all subsidize together. You won't believe it, but the data shows that, for example, Switzerland transports 400,000 trucks a year. Three times less than Slovenia. A million 250 000 trucks drive annually on Slovenian roads. Taking into account that, on average, the cargo vehicle carries 20 tonnes of cargo, we can find that 25 million tonnes of cargo are transported through Slovenia annually. That's amazing! And you won't believe that if I give you the information, but I'm sure it is true that despite Slovenia's transportation of three times as many cargo vehicles as Switzerland, we pick up trucks for eight times less tolls than Swiss. This is just an example of all taxpayers in Slovenia subsidising trucks, with 90% of foreign trucks. And this is where things need to be settled. Here the actual toll must be placed on a level such as Austria. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we are also making an amendment that will ensure financial sustainability, which means that the toll on freight vehicles is set at 32 cents, as is the case in Austria, and in this way we will only pick up 3.5 times more tolls from freight vehicles than we do now. If we now collect 100 million euros, we will then collect at least 350 million euros. And it is only from the trucks that we would collect more than 50% more resources than we are now collecting together from passenger and freight vehicles. This means that if we accepted our amendment, the price of the annual vignette could still be greatly reduced, reduced to a level, even if the European Commission could hardly oppose it. And what I'm really disappointed about today. When I read the paper, what I see is that the Minister of Transport gives additional discharges to trucks. I ask you nicely: Who will then finance Slovenian motorways? The cargo vehicle, according to evidence, causes on average 10,000 times more damage on the highway than on the passenger vehicle. Dars has 3 billion euros in debt. For this year alone, some €2 million of outstanding debts remain open, which Dars will refinance with new loans. And what the Minister of Transport does: instead of charging trucks at least as much as the right price, today we can read that those who transport the most on Slovenian highways receive an additional discount. Dear Members and Members, if we do not make order here, we will be paid by taxpayers at the end of this question. And in fact, it is necessary to pour pure wine and say - you blame that it is not a problem for passenger cars, but let us charge trucks, among them 90% of foreign trucks, the price that actually reflects the damage they cause on Slovenian highways. And if we put the toll here on the same level as in Austria, we will raise enough funds, only from this source €350 million, so that we can lower the price of the annual guilt for passenger cars. There is an inconsistent policy here, and that is all we want to draw attention to, and we expect, of course, that you will indeed support the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors in the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everyone. If they only read the report from the parent's working body, they would find that everyone there was in agreement with the proposed law. Today we see that the thing is not that many have concerns and let me say that we also have them in the Desus Group. In particular, we have doubts if I metaphorically say, with the forcible solidarity of cleaners, goalkeepers, unemployed people and those who are socially deprived with the owners of businesses, the owners of freight vehicles, Members, directors and so on. That is why we think it is right to express our disagreement with individual solutions. Unless, of course, someone thinks that cleaners, goalkeepers, unemployed people and other socially disadvantaged people have no right to go on vacation, go to the Alps, go to the sea, so that they will not be treated the same way as the richest ones. That might sound social demagogue to someone, but that's right. That those who are not on the roads are practically not on roads that are only occasionally, sporadicly, paying the same as those that are burdened every day and excessively. So we certainly are not for this kind of solidarity in the DeSUS Group. Of course, we agree that the current system is a poor system and should be complemented or possibly left behind, and what other measures should be found so that it is no longer so crowded as to make the environment less polluted, so that there are fewer greenhouse discharges and so on and so on. However, we do not think that the measures taken by the Government are all good and, in particular, they are not the only good measures. The government itself admits that it has prepared these measures in distress, in distress. Otherwise, it wouldn't be an emergency procedure. We know when emergency procedures are taken and for what reasons. At a time when there is no time for serious thought, for reflection between different options, for professional discussion and when we are in a hurry to avoid negative events. For such an approach to solving everything in distress, including those most important decisions, we are not the greatest enthusiasts. We shouldn't have come into this situation. Nor should we be in a situation where we are saying that the possible €10 million will be less than €10 million with billions of investments in motorways and state roads of crucial importance for the state of Slovenia. We should not go into such situations and aim nothing at just one government or just another. We have been aiming for a failed transport policy, which has in fact not been for many years, for decades or more. And we should do this more intensively. We heard a warning show this morning. Some warnings are also needed in this amendment of the Road Traffic Act. That he is not well thought out, that is his weakness, we are sure of the Desus Group. If environmental warnings were not taken into account, we are also sure. We are also convinced that social warnings have not been taken into account, so warnings regarding eligibility. And we are not so sure whether this new system is financially sustainable, we do not know whether or not there are some problems in the future, and we also do not know whether there are any proposals to solve environmental problems, not only are they being moved from the highway to some parallel roads, to imports and to exports, and we will be causing greenhouse emissions elsewhere. But as you know, greenhouse gas emissions are not a local problem. They are a global problem, and by moving them for a few miles or a few hundred meters, we do not improve anything. The essence of this bill is to introduce blame, additional burden on transit traffic and to relieve some of the discounts of the largest domestic users. Those who have more resources, higher wages and those who are burdened by economic interests because of the profitable interests of this road. That is why we have a number of concerns in the parliamentary group. We are not the ones who would provide uniform and hundred percent support for such a law. The debate is likely to show that we are right in many ways. As it turns out, it is wrong to subsidise pensioners, students and others who receive social transfers, the result that we have a smaller government budget deficit.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much for the word and a nice greeting to all together, even to our young people up here! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads needs to be welcomed. Guilts are a good solution, a great solution, but of course they have some weaknesses. The greatest weakness is that it is forgiven to truck drivers or truck drivers who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are I think the ministry should raise the price of vignettes for trucks, because when they are guilty, then they should be simply squeezed. They drive Slovak, Polish, Romanian, Bulgarian trucks on Slovenian roads, which do not even comply with technical rules, and on the other hand they are vehicles that destroy our roads substantially more than modern vehicles, what kind of trucks. That is why I think that a solution should also be prepared in this direction. With regard to the price of vinjets, I believe that most Slovenians also welcome the prices of vinjets. Those of us who drive a lot along the highways will pay considerably less. Some people say I take a trip to the sea once a year, and I'll pay that and that. Once a year on the sea, it can take a quiet ride along the old road, it will not endanger traffic on the highway, because it will drive about 40% slower than the rest of the drivers, but will move slowly to the sea. The European Union, which has always been against Slovenia, should keep it quiet, take care of its problems, has enough of them over its head, and leave Slovenian decisions to the Slovenians. Of course, I fear that our Government will kneel before Europe and that it will respect what gentlemen from Europe require. But they ask for us, they never stick to it, and they always make exceptions, just like they do. When the thought was expressed that foreigners might choose to drive on the side roads. I think it is necessary to do the same as in Austria - at the border you have to buy a winniet and that's it. But they're not driving. Now there's one more thing. The fact is - I will also talk about this after we discuss the amendments - what should the vignette look like? I think the official Slovenian password, our promotional password "I feel Slovenia" should also be written on wine. Why? If nothing else, Croats who should buy half a year's vignette would look at that hated Slovenia and spit and "shinfala", but their head would slowly drip, drip - Slovenia is a promised land and you will never get there. That is why I think this is a very important thing, because if we look at how our media treats the Republic of Slovenia, we will see that yesterday when we had a press conference on the swine trade that our commission did on the river and when it agreed to Croatian conditions and when they are praised today long and later, and it was a complete fiasco and shameful for Slovenia, the work - not a word, the evening - not a word, but if I am jokingly saying that Shrot's media is not publishing it, even the Ljubljana Diary has not published any of it. I don't know if they're afraid of Croats, whether the Croats have any stakes in them, or whether our gentlemen owe them something to the Croats so we don't publish it. And it's called independent media and so on. I think that the inscription "I feel Slovenia" on the vineyard would mean at least 50 times more in our diplomatic relations than all Rupl's demarches, writers and love relations and hugs with various Croatian ministers and so on. Those hugs, congratulations and talking, what friends we are, can keep Rupel for the afternoon, for the evening, for maybe other positions not only at dinners, but in Slovenia we do not need it. I think it makes sense to support the law, but I hope that in the next round, the Minister will correct those mistakes, particularly with regard to the payment of these transports by foreign trucks on Slovenian roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u25	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to this article. First, I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the three amendments to this Article. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 1 and the amendments to this Article. Mr. Stab, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. First of all, with regard to the first Supplement from the Zares Group, which, in fact, wishes to introduce in a very drastic manner this greater ratio between the costs incurred by passenger vehicles and freight vehicles. However, I agree with the principle that these costs should be charged more fairly, even now that the release of traffic on motorways reduces costs and driving time for freight vehicles as well. But this matter must be gradual, especially not just on the run. In particular, freight vehicles should be charged, gradually of course, with environmental damage. The European Directive knows four, five categories of environmental damage according to the type of propulsion of these trucks. Accordingly, according to an environmental or transport policy, this contribution of freight vehicles should be made, but we know that most of these cargo vehicles are in transit, that this is an international heavy cargo transport, in a more appropriate way. The proposal in this amendment, which increases by more than 170% the current amount of the average contribution of trucks to the transported kilometer, I think it is inadequate and should also be viewed here in terms not only of domestic motorists, but also of the gradualness of this introduction and in particular of the weighted decision, because, despite the great advantages, Slovenia, in view of the transport corridor, which is more favourable than neighbouring countries, competing corridors, however, is not able to make such drastic changes and possibly lose the business or advantages it has, and these transport flows that are now coming to Slovenia. As a result, these trucks would be less coming to Slovenia and there would also be smaller contributions to the use of motorways and the other benefits would be lower. However, the greatest disadvantage of such a proposal is that it interferes with the price of a mile [km] for trucks with such a large jump and legal provision. In fact, the greatest weakness is that it does not take into account the environmental categories and environmental damage caused by trucks. About the other amendments, that's all. In view of the introduction of charging the use of motorways for a half-year or one year, and only for passenger vehicles - a fellow Member who spoke earlier, what he has generalised on all trucks and talked about all other matters which have nothing to do with the introduction and, in fact, with the step taken by the Government or Slovenia to drive in free traffic, an unhindered transition. The introduction of vinjets is nothing else and should be named only by the expression of freeing up on motorways, it is said to be an unhindered ride, which is now hampered by tolling with toll stations. If a tolling system for freight vehicles is also introduced using the current ABC system, the passage across toll stations will be completely unstoppable until the middle of the next year, it is said, with some delay, until these toll stations are removed without stopping. The proposal in this amendment is actually drastic because of something else. The current ratio between passenger and freight vehicles, one to four, which is too small in Slovenia in relation to the ratios that are in comparable neighbouring countries, is now increasing by 10 times, to one to forty, which is totally unacceptable, with such drastic interferences in the price policy for freight transport to interfere and also threaten the benefits of Slovenia from international transport and corridor. Moreover, the advocates of the current toll system are forgetting and the advocates of simply upgrading the current toll system are forgetting that this system does not actually allow it. The current system, without replacing the entire electronic tolling system, does not allow either categories or is not as standard as such. That's what they say. It's possible it's just a trade. In order to replace one system, however, it is best to release first traffic on motorways, which is the introduction of a vignette for passenger vehicles and then the introduction of electronic tolling gradually, first for freight vehicles. When the conditions are also met in Europe with the appropriate possibility of negotiating between toll operators, so-called interoperability, it will also be possible to introduce electronic tolling with satellite tolling for all vehicles. Then, I hope in fact in the near future, in a few years, the owner of the satellite tracking or tolling device will be able to pay the tolls with this same device anywhere in Europe. As we can now use mobile devices anywhere in Europe, we pay our operator, which then settles matters with infrastructure operators, which we use elsewhere. With regard to the second addendum to Article 1, I believe that given the extremely favourable price and the choice of two possible time payments for the use of motorways for passenger vehicles, there is no point in changing things and allowing and exempting the payment of tolls in certain areas, rings, cars and so on. I am convinced that according to the assessment and a very conservative assessment of the timing of toll payments for passenger cars, this makes no special sense, since out of a million hundred thousand vehicles in Slovenia, at least three quarters of them with such a favourable mass discount, most of the vehicle owners will also buy these vineyards. I'm sure the Gorenjeks too. And it's not the right logic for those who say that that's why we're giving someone leave. With the current unfair charging of tolls, those more frequent users of highways were avoiding motorways to reduce their costs. They simply used parallel roads and did significantly greater damage on these roads, particularly in my opinion environmentalally and due to congestion on these roads. Now with a favourable price for passenger cars for the use of motorways, this attractiveness and actual use of motorways is actually almost non-problem. I am confident that the vast majority of these car owners will decide to use these motorways. Motor bikes, which now pay half of the new tolls, will also use motorways and, above all, safer vehicles from one place to another. He may also doubt that we would not be able to raise enough money to finance highways. Given that Slovenia is transporting 8 million tourists only during the tourist season, this is said to be 2 to 3 million passenger vehicles or similar vehicles and that crossings across Slovenia in one year are almost 50 million, that 80 million tolls are already at these toll stations, and given that the applicant and the Government provide for the sale of 2 million 300,000 semi-annual vignettes and 80 thousand annual vignettes, there will certainly be nothing special about these figures, except that more money will be collected. In any case, the essential correction, at least minimal and gradual, which will also be in favour of better quality and more appropriate trucks of Slovenian motorists, is the future of a more balanced and more collected toll money by introducing satellite tolling for freight vehicles, fairer, to the actual towed distance, and not only on motorways, even if in transit, especially in international transit, motorways, toll or utility payments are avoided. In such a case, when goods vehicles in transit use parallel or even local roads, they should pay an additional fee, not a penalty, but a higher cost. I don't support these supplements for the reasons I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. When we talk about vignettes and which road sections are supposed to be tolled, it is important to stress once again that Slovenia does not have as high-quality road network as Switzerland, which uses vignettes, and there they find it very difficult to control all users whether they actually bought a vignette or not. But the fact is that in Slovenia, when we haven't even built a highway cross, we want to load with vignettes especially those places and those drivers or drivers that come from areas where the highway doesn't actually have very long roads, we can say, the collapses of the main roads of the first order, the second order, the regional roads. The state of the road network in Slovenia is catastrophic and it is pointless to introduce vignettes to pay debts to build motorways for those who do not use them. But if they do, but it is unfair to them, let’s say that they are burdened by buying vignettes when they go to the hospital and go through the connecting road to the highway ring, or they go along the bypass, and, of course, they have to buy wine because once a month or when there is a need for health reasons, they have to drive to such a city center that they usually have more modern hospitals. It is also unfair for all those who drive daily to work from areas where there is no highway, and because they will only cross, use a ring or a connecting road, they will have to pay just as much for those few kilometres as someone who carries 200, 300 kilometers a day on the highway. It is also unfair for those who live in cities and use the urban ring to avoid burdening traffic in the city, to avoid congestion in the city, to avoid excessive pollution in urban centres and, yes, to avoid pollution of the environment where this environment is most burdened today. Therefore, in our amendment, we propose to exclude all connecting roads and all fast roads leading to to toll stations and all urban rings that are mainly burdening traffic in cities from the toll system. This brings us closer to at least part of the interest that we do not burden unnecessarily with those users of the road network who do not really use the highway. At the same time, it makes sense for us to reconsider whether Slovenia really needs or does not need blame today. See, Slovenia certainly needs a toll system that will allow the development of the entire road network. And not just the road network, we need a toll system that will also allow the development of the rail network. You blame simply do not answer this question, but before which Slovenia is. Not only do we have a broken state and local road network, we have an outdated rail network that is actually unable to take on serious cargo and engage in serious traffic flows, especially the fifth and tenth European corridors. Instead of thinking about such a toll system, we are now introducing a toll system that is significantly more expensive than ever before. According to UMAR, printing, sale, accounting, monitoring and punishment is about 21% more expensive tolling in vineyards than in the existing toll system. And I still say that with EUR 5 million, it is possible to upgrade the existing toll system by the time you say when we will implement the satellite system, even though we all know that Europe will be going a long way before the satellite system is put into operation in all European countries. Besides, if he lives, he'll be extremely expensive. And again we will have a more expensive system to establish and collect tolls, but we will lack the means to maintain and build both the existing highway system and the other state roads we need in Slovenia. And let me just say that the national highway construction programme has foreseen that we will provide 1.98 billion euros from the state budget in order to complete the highway cross as soon as possible and that we will repay all debts by 2002. In the interim period, a higher than the tolls collected are allocated to the third development axis, the third development axis and the fourth development axis. Today, too, we do not have the resources to build these axes. And we are encroaching on an extremely sensitive area of tolling in a way that, at a time when Dars is far more indebted and more indebted, 4 and a half billion euros at least, we are interfering in the way that we are also opening a complete concession contract concluded between the state and Dars and allowing funds to be returned to maintenance, to repay debts. How will this system work tomorrow? Will the penalties of these violators be the revenue of Dars from the state budget for the vineyards? No, no, no. They're going to be state budget. And how will all these people, who will have to be trained in a very short time to control the toll system in Slovenia, be a completely open question. Once again, really in Slovenia, it will not be pleasant to drive when you first have an officer on the open road, then you will be expected by the red man in the village, we have adopted such laws, and when you arrive from the settlement on the highway, you will obviously have to be accompanied by a road supervisor in uniform and with all the equipment and with all the powers that allow him to have access to your documents or driver's documents. We are becoming a police state and I think that this is one of the major shortcomings that we are discussing today in the toll system. Let us address these shortcomings at least in those parts that can be excluded from the toll system. These are, I stress, city rings, fast roads or connecting roads to toll stations. At least that minimum that would allow, I repeat, also to those residents who do not have motorways to drive without buying wine to the hospital, to school and to work. This is a few very serious warnings that we see in this reckless introduction of vineyards by social Democrats, and I hope that this amendment will be supported. However, let me also say that we are in fact in favour of the Zares Amendment, which speaks of the fact that freight transport actually needs to be burdened more with toll payments than it is today. Today, the Government decides to reduce the burden on carriers in every negotiation it has with the carriers, rather than trying to stay in because the injuries on the vehicles are extremely high. Thirty thousand times more damage to a truck than to a passenger vehicle. The ratio, we've heard, at the toll is 1 to 4. And it is in every negotiation that the Government gives concessions and thus gives additional subsidies to those who are more burdensome to the environment, which are more burdensome to highways. If we write this down in law, we avoid these annual ones, not to say monthly, the negotiations for these additional subsidies and those discharges, which carriers can also easily implement, because if this does not happen, there is a threat of imprisonment on motorways, on slopes and thus a major economic damage. If we legitimize it, this problem actually falls away. So I think that these two solutions, which we are proposing as the opposition, are essential for us to take at least one step towards becoming a more efficient and friendly country also in the field of tolling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u29	Thank you. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. By tolling in Slovenia, I think we really have no luck, and I have always been among those who were most critical of the existing toll system. But unfortunately, even today, when this proposal is before us, I cannot be most happy and pleased. Actually, I'm sad. For the first time, because I do not think that we have regulated one important set, this is a balance between the contribution made by those who drive passenger cars and those who drive trucks. That is why I think it is right here for us to touch today and not remove the various lobbying that rule in this area, but also freight transport, but especially foreign freight transport. I think we have some of the benefits of this in Slovenia, but these benefits, which my colleague Šteba spoke about, do not outweigh all the damage caused by this freight traffic and which is simply to be burdened. Secondly, because of which I am sad or worried, it is that we are moving away from this proposal, in my opinion, from the only, professional, honest and even environmentally friendly, we are talking a little less about the way to to tolling is from electronic tolling. Unfortunately, I have been among those, and many will recall that I, most loudly proposed the introduction of tolls in 2005, and in 2006 together with my colleagues, have collected over 150,000 signatures against inappropriate tolling. At that time, my proposals were gravely rejected by many, who today are very loud about the arguments and reasons for the introduction of guilt. And some also sit there in the ranks of the government, who at that time rejected this rather harshly, if it is totally inappropriate, unfair and so on. At that time it was also said that the analysis that I have here and is a real lesson, what policy can do with expertise, i.e. an analysis of the economic eligibility of the temporary introduction of vignettes under which is signed by UMAR Director Janez Šuštaršič, is really a learning hour, what the profession does in Slovenia if the policy orders it, or if it orders it something else. At that time, this analysis was made to ensure that we have electronic tolling in early 2008. And that was the main argument that this same coalition that advocates guilt today and the then Minister of Christmas rejected us so gravely. Of course, I am concerned that already in 2006 an action plan for the introduction of electronic tolling has been presented, what is happening in this segment. Because according to my opinion and my feeling, it's the only proper tolling that doesn't give rise to any concerns, conflicts or anything like that. But unfortunately, we're moving away from it. And done at the time of this government, unfortunately, there was nothing on the electronic toll segment. That's why we now use the wound patch to give and introduce vinjets. I don't know why we didn't do it three years ago. We proposed them and you rejected them. And it is interesting to see what, let's say, were the arguments then, and under it Mr Šuštaršič was signed as a great authority, and I will only list the costs. Today these numbers are completely different. At the time, they estimated the cost of the vineyards that the costs of so-called inherited investments in toll stations were, according to what was being built, among other things, built two and a half years ago by two very expensive toll stations in Krtina and Lukovica, over a billion tolars at the time, brought about about 250 million tolls. The cost of these inherited investments, I'm going to talk about tolars, is estimated here at 4 billion tolars. The destruction of toll stations, which will be necessary, is estimated at a billion 62 million tolars. Approximately 400 toll workers at the time of employment are expected to reach the cost of these redundant workers at the cost of 713 million tolars at the time. The entire design of the vignette project is expected to cost between 400 and 800 million tolars, production and distribution between 800 and billion tolars. Another assessment is very interesting at that time that only about a third of foreigners entering Slovenia will be included in the motorways. This is a study commissioned by the Government at the time, the same government that it accepted as what it was, and it was signed by the profession. These numbers are today diametrically opposite, minimised. I am always bitter when the profession is used for such or other purposes. And I am convinced that this time too, the profession is used to show the opposite effects of the introduction of vineyards. And tolling in Slovenia is always an eminent political issue. And what I resent to this coalition, to this government and to those involved in this, is that now the proximity has occurred, finally, after three years, but we have missed three years in the introduction of electronic tolling. This is where Slovenia sleeps. She sleeps here, or we don't let her breathe. I have also received some such letters from people who are working on these projects that are not really willing, for quite some time now that they have put it aside and I think that now, with the most fair, even the most environmentally friendly, we have to admit that we have to admit that people are paying as much as they are transporting and where they are transporting. And that's the only way with this form of tolling. And for this form you will experience criticism, colleagues in the coalition, and if you want it or not, and this wine will never erase this stain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u32	Mr. President, thank you very much. I'd start a little different. First, I'd like to comment on my colleague Rezman's statement. I don't know whether he knows or doesn't know that when I tried to summarize almost a four-hour debate on the Transport Committee in five minutes, as if I said nothing but good and they're all in favour. Now I have reviewed once again what I said in the introduction, as chairman of the committee. For more than half the time, I have presented the criticism of the members of the Committee, which was expressed at the meeting. But I can't imagine how in five minutes to present a four-hour debate, sometimes critical, I will say, and what else I would add. I would like to comment on the actual amendments to Article 1. If I like the amendment of the Really Group, but I ask myself about its feasibility or incompetence, and even at this point, I will say the consequences that would result from the adoption of one such amendment. I just hope, and I'm also sure that most, probably 70%, of these trucks, especially the foreign ones using our highways, are using Luke Koper's services. To say now that, as it was said, by 170 percent raise the toll for these trucks, I think it might be harakiri or something else. Perhaps it will be possible for the authors of this law and, finally, the road policy for the future, but I think that most of the debaters estimate that what trucks do is incomprehensible on the roads and what personal vehicles do, and such a small difference in height. Both the tolls we pay for the use of state roads, as well as tolls for the use of motorways and toll roads, I think it is not fair and here we the owners of passenger vehicles are likely to be solidarity with the automotive companies. Second. We talk about righteousness and injustice, and on the other hand, we say, "No rings, no speedy roads." However, it advocates and questions the sustainability or non-resistance of this toll system. Yeah, but if we did that, we'd cut out almost half the money that's supposed to come from tolling. This colleague who discussed this probably knows that we have quite a few so-called highways that are fast roads. The one who travels from Vipave to Vogeršček, almost 20 kilometers away, paid neither a cent nor a toll. Those who drive to Brezovica, they don't. Those who drive to the Supreme have a discount. But those who drive 30 years to Postojna, full toll of all 30 years. Not to mention the Ljubljana Ring, the Maribor Ring, but from Ivančna Gorica, the one who comes to Ljubljana and rides around Ljubljana, does not pay a tolar or a cent. Let us be righteous and say what is righteous and what is not. Second. The same could be said, however, when it comes to registration, and no one has ever disputed that we pay the same, say, in the same personal vehicle cubatura, we pay the same compensation for the use of state roads to those who travel some ten kilometres, like those who carry some ten thousand kilometers. Yes, well, that's unfair too, but I haven't heard for quite some time in politics that anyone would question this injustice. Second. To say that this method of tolling is not more environmentally friendly. I hope that those who speak in such a way that they have ever driven on what bad weather towards the sea, when there was a column of two, if not even a tripartite almost to Ljubljana from Log, on the other hand almost to Vrhnika. That's one. Secondly, it is not environmentally friendly that now it will not be necessary for a tourist who will come to the Šentilj border crossing and take off to the Adriatic, at least six times, to stop, six times to take off, and in between some of the main toll stations to stand up to some ten if not more minutes. This has happened to me, too, that I was already on the Austrian side because of the border, and then because of the toll. Control. I don't know why we're afraid of control. Are those who say now that we're going to get these supervisors in uniform and I don't know what, yes, do you think they're not controlling us elsewhere when we drive to Austria or, say, Switzerland? You don't have to see them, but some form of control over the actual payment or non-payment of this toll is all you have to have. And I'm not afraid of that control. I'm more afraid of something else. Well, if I finish this debate. Whatever is prescribed by law to have a financial obligation is fair to someone and unfair to someone. And talking about the decisions of the State and of the National Assembly, that they should be just, is utopian. I do not know such a country or such a decision, including this National Assembly, which would be just for all. At this point in time, I estimate that this system is somewhat fairer, at least as far as motor vehicle users are concerned, so to speak, cars, not least it is fair to motorists. And I hope that, with such a regulated issue, when the toll is actually half the price for motorists as it has been for passenger cars and motorists, they will make substantial use of motorways and that the consequences of the use of those other roads, which then also result from a traffic accident, will also contribute to the fewer fatalities experienced by motorists, especially in the spring when the flowers and the sun bloom. However, I will support the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups, which is said to be the third amendment to Article 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Juban has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary with the team! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of the environment in which I come from, in principle, I support the law and will also support it in the final decision. I will not support the amendments that are before us because they do not change, or some will not accept them anyway, so that nothing will change. Of course, marriage is convenient for those who often drive, with the exception of those who have to visit some center - Maribor, Ljubljana, Koper, hospital, visit relatives or for some of the few other bureaucratic reasons, for those of course the matter is not pleasant. But I miss those benefits a long time ago. Why we did not consider this law three years ago and that the Slovenians would have received these benefits a long time ago and that instead of paying us, there would have been no need for tourists at the border, all the failure caused by the Slovenians would have been paid by guests who come once or twice a year to Slovenia or travel across Slovenia. Even on the board, we probably won't hear the reason why it didn't happen a long time ago. However, the matter was explained to us by the Vice-President of the Slovenian Democratic Party, somewhere last year, when he said: "For the electoral year, we are preparing a number of kind of measures that will help us with the results of the elections." Do we have one of these measures ahead of us, in addition to those experienced by some in this country, with different methods, including repression, and we are likely to face a number of such measures? With the law itself, I cannot repeat what we said on the committee, but perhaps the president did not report that I still miss some things in the law. There was talk of freight traffic. czech, but we can't, because it would be harakiri, as Bajc's colleague said. The question is, who are the harakirs for? Is it for carriers or will it be harakiri for the DARS or the state budget? Indeed, on the same day that we discussed the law on the committee, the European Commission pointed out a solution that we accept that it may not be the most favourable and that we are far from Switzerland, which has such or similar model, and that the system that equally charges the person who drives every day and who drives twice or once is discriminatory. And it can also happen, in view of the opinion of colleague Jelinčič, that we will want or have to take into account the European Union's suggestions that we will change this system very quickly. Probably not before the elections, because that government will last so long with this system, because then there would be great disappointment. However, the next government may have to change this system after the elections, but we are still predicting a new system of monitoring traffic and tolling in a very short time. And that the costs listed here today, following a study by the former President of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis, are those costs the reality and the danger of the economy of this system. Dars has been warning us all the time because of credits and also because of possible windfalls, that the country will be paying for the financing of the construction system from the budget: either because of the guarantee or because of the other failure. And it seems that we will not escape this, even though we are all warned, including the President who was here today, including by pressing the deadlines - representatives of parliamentary parties, that we will not be doing anything stupid before the elections, we are getting a degree of this kind of action. And one more thing I want to say. I paid a fine in Austria because I didn't have a vignette, 100 euros. I'm fixing, 120 euros. In Shentil. We have 300 to 800. And I'm worried about that exaggeration. Actually, at this point, I don't mind meeting a police officer, and the warden, because this system, by the time it stands up, will probably not be needed anymore - what we just said - but this excessive increase in punishment I think is actually excessive. And in punishing, in the early controls of speed, in the past days, God forbid that this should happen again, we had just the opposite situation. During the first time of traffic control, we had an impossible number of accidents and unfortunately also the dead. It means that this system of intimidation seems to be not working. I wish I wasn't right, but what's too much is too much. Even at speeds and here, that we want to be the best in criminal policy, I don't think this system is good. If so, let us try to take some regulations from neighbouring countries or also take into account the actual income of a Slovenian citizen, an average Slovenian citizen, and these doses are too high for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u35	Thank you. Since interest is still after the debate on Article 1 and the three amendments to this Article, I am opening the application again. Mr. Stab, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm lucky I'm always first in line. Responses to discussions first. However, it may be necessary to repeat: now, for passenger vehicles, free traffic is being introduced, driving on motorways without being stopped at a toll station by a prisoner who checks or pays automatically or has paid a real toll. Prisoners, which are characteristic of an area in Europe where they have prison systems, read the mistrust that the perpetrators are large, are being removed in Slovenia. Austria, Germany, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Hungary do not have a toll system where the toll station is located and where the inmate is. Hungary had toll stations without an electronic toll system and in 2004 these toll stations simply cleaned up and introduced vignettes and introduced an electronic toll system. On tolls for passenger cars for the time-use of motorways, it is necessary to to toll everything, the whole road network; it is called motorways and fast roads. And as soon as possible, introduce an electronic toll system for freight vehicles that will pay tolls across the entire road network, not only on motorways and fast roads, but also on parallel state roads. And once again, I say that the state roads, which are now being replaced almost entirely by motorways, have been built relatively high quality for our situation, but because of the inadequate toll system and the late construction of motorways, due to the so-called increased freight traffic and heavy freight traffic, these state roads have been in poor condition. So instead of building highways as soon as possible, what this government is doing intensively, this has been slowing down and we've been causing a lot of damage to other road infrastructures. I think that's what nobody's taken into account, and it's essential in the whole story of the last 30, 40 years. Thus, with the transition to free traffic, unobstructed driving along motorways and more fair toll payments for freight vehicles in the following year, the Government is now taking that fundamental and most important step. And the stories and criticisms that we heard, why it wasn't done in 2005 and why such a study was made. This study took into account all the one-off costs and simply placed them on tolling costs during a two-year period, with the promise that this year the free traffic flow of tolling will be completely inappropriate. Why was it so done? Not because of this government, but because of the very strong influence of all those who have established such a toll system. For the first time, it is non-standard, and nowhere in Europe do they use such frequency, the second concept is that it is impossible to introduce without the high cost of additional categories. It was made for only one category of vehicles, ordinary passenger cars and motorcycles, engines. With engines now paying half the price for the time use of motorways, they used to pay the same price; this was the same category. And this power of the lobby is actually still entwining with the tail, as is evident from the discussions in this National Assembly. It is truly intertwined with some of the professional explanations that we are listening to, that the present system will continue to be a fine builder. These experiments were, but proved to be professional, cost-effective and, in terms of transport policy, completely inadequate, in fact, turned out to be. I cannot accept the debate in terms of: you have done nothing. In 2004, in the pre-election campaign on the Krtina toll station, a very successful and reversed electoral campaign was carried out on this basis by those who did not provide for a different toll system at the time. Besides what they wanted to achieve, not the toll station in the Black Grab, I agree, but what was done to make the toll system different and fairer? To talk about eight million euros being spent on the ABC system. Unfortunately, the power of this lobby is so great that it is true - 8 million had to be invested in additional purchases of these cards, which will now, I hope, be used at least for trucks and will be the passage of trucks through toll stations by automatic tolling with an outdated ABC system. In fact, the profession has only been able to prove in some way, as well as the events in Europe and the recommendations of the European Commission on what a new toll system is appropriate, a specification has been developed, as well as the perspective of the pan-European or global satellite system Galileo, which will not replace it, but will allow better tolling by satellite tracking. So those who led a campaign in 2004 in the way of'stop columns' and had the influence and power to prevent it, but did nothing, can now only see what this government is actually doing after major problems and arguments begin - the actual introduction of tolling in the next year without toll stations. Freight vehicles, I am sure that these movements will contribute significantly more to Darsa's treasury maintenance and credit repayment and to the faster construction of motorways and other roads in the future, mainly by paying up at the beginning of environmental damage. This ratio, which is one to six, and in Austria, with the tolling system, which has achieved a ratio of one to eight of the tolls collected by passenger vehicles and freight vehicles, has a very good prospect of raising enough money for new investments, not just to complete motorways in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Rugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to the Minister and representatives of the Government, as well as to other colleagues and colleagues! You blame - I think the decision is right. Look, the highway cross is ending, and I don't know if it's going to be over this year, but the second year at the beginning, I'm sure. What do highways bring? Motorways bring benefits for the whole country, perhaps even more for those municipalities that lie along these highways. I come from the Sevnica Congregation alone, which does not lie by the highway. What do I mean when we talk about justice? They are brought to Ljubljana from all directions of the motorway, from Primorska, Gorenjska, Štajerska, Dolenjska. And of course, the centre of Ljubljana, but not just the center, even to a certain extent, I can say, the 10-, 15-, 20-km belt does not have to pay the toll. And the ones we bring in from the perfumery, where it's not even a highway, we have to pay the toll. I absolutely disagree with the predecessors, especially the opposition, who have been explaining how someone should pay or whether a ambulance pays or not. Today he pays for it, and today this ambulance stands at the toll station when he may be in a hurry to get the patient to the hospital as soon as possible. It won't happen in the future. We built the highway cross to practically move Slovenia from one end to the other in two hours, from the center we arrive in one hour at every end of Slovenia. Now we stop at toll stations and waste time there, even if it is a few minutes, but in this relative view, how much time it takes to transport Slovenia is simply a huge waste of time. This is felt even more by foreigners when they develop, especially in the summers of the seasons, those large columns at these toll stations, where even if we go further to ecology, this gasoline actually goes into the air. Because, as far as justice is concerned, I think guilt is more just than the existing system. I can tell myself here that I come from the lower direction along the highway, drive 10 km along the highway, pay the toll, then drive for 20 km, and I'm in Ljubljana. Someone who only drives 20 km, who comes to Ivančna Gorica on the highway, pays no toll. But that's huge. And now to talk about some right, I think it would be really a waste of time, and I think guilt is far better. And far more economical. Look, if I'm going to and from Portorož, I'm spending about 15 euros. I'd drive again, and it's a six-year-old vignette. Practically, the vineyards are so cheap that they are truly worth it, and anyone who uses highways will buy a vineyard. And everyone else is benefiting from the highway. Also, someone who owns a restaurant doesn't know where, but they bring a bus down the highway to him, they benefit us all. So to talk about how righteous or beneficial a matter is for someone, I think it is really unnecessary. I am also pleased that the law provides for two types of vignettes: the first annual, semi-annual and semi-continuous vehicles are provided for a half price of vignettes. Perhaps there is little doubt and I would ask the minister later if he could explain whether motorists would be able to buy a six-year-old vineyard, which is very important. We know that the annual €55 is EUR 35, a half-year-old, and that the interpretation of the law states that the price is half for motorists. As far as surveillance is concerned, I'd say that surveillance is linked to the level of punishment. If the penalties were very low, really a lot of people would want to take advantage of that and say, because it's not worth buying me a vignette, but I'm just gonna drive around and maybe they won't get me. But when they estimate that it is likely that someone will get it and that the amount of the penalty is large enough to pay more for it to buy a vignette. I believe that it will be so that virtually everyone will decide on it, and that minimal control will be needed only here and there, penalties. In addition, they are smaller than our neighbouring Europeans, and I think the penalties are not excessive, and whoever goes on the highway will not be wrong. I'm against high sentences where there can be a mistake. Everyone will be aware that you can't take the freeway without the wine, and everyone will have the opportunity to buy it, and also the price isn't high. So whoever wants to take advantage of this, I think they have to be punished in the end. There's no other solution here. I would like to highlight something else; in the long term, when we also talk about electronic tolls, satellites and what else I know. I have already called our MEP myself and I have suggested that, at the level of Europe, we consider simply including these tolls in the price of talking. That could be 5 cents. Ten cents, tops. Five to ten cents. If we did this at the level of Europe, so that there would not be different prices for crossing state borders, it would be so much simpler, and I think this is one perspective. It would be an extremely simple system. I mean, it's just that if I were to "punch," I'd just cost a little more, but I wouldn't pay for anything here. And who would drive a lot of cars would pay more because they'd have to tank more than once. Anyone who had a car with more use would have paid more. And by doing so, we stimulate the purchases of more modest cars with lower consumption, economically more impeccable. I think this could be one of the possible ways for future tolls in Europe. Because that satellite system actually knows where someone is at any moment. Technically, it is probably very demanding, so I think that one of the possible solutions would be, and also justified in some way, even such a tolling method. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I may be a little bit more limited to all three amendments to Article 1. I will, however, first of all, be concerned with the first amendment proposed by the Zares Group. I think the amendment is good. The amendment is absolutely good, and I think it needs to be supported. Because I have already talked about foreign trucks that drive on Slovenian roads, which do the most damage on Slovenian roads. It is true that in this case we should pay slightly more Slovenian motorists too, but here the government should not submit to Mr Emile Maria Pintar, who always squeezes the government by the door and threatens to bring trucks on the road. I think that as long as someone does more damage on the roads, let them pay more to get rid of this damage or to prevent it. Because with a bigger deposit of money for these trucks, a lot of things can be done first. I think it would also make sense for trucks to introduce vignettes. At least in time, because even if we paid for the wine, it would no longer be worth avoiding highways and working crowded on local roads, where we meet entire columns of Hungarian, Ukrainian trucks, Slovak and I don't know who else. As I have said before, these gentlemen, even when they are in the European Union, do not adhere to the European regulation, which trucks should drive and drive all kinds of 'choder', which then falls apart on Slovenian highways. Of course, the police don't do anything because they don't know the word of a foreign language or the one who comes out with a "stang" to change wheels and the policeman sits down and pulls her away so that he doesn't get convinced in some way. So I think it makes sense to support this amendment of the Really Group. The second amendment tabled by the Group of Social Democrats is, in fact, acceptable or supportive, talking about about the same matter, although I believe that the amendment of the Group is indeed better, more decisive. However, I certainly think that the third amendment has a single error for SDS, SLS, NSI and DeSUS, which states that "roads for the use of toll roads for a certain period of time shall be paid for the use of a toll road with a motor vehicle whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 3,500 kilograms, irrespective of the maximum permissible mass of the trailer." It is said that someone will be able to get on this trailer on one of the cars a little stronger, say one jeep, bring such a trailer, in fact even an apartment, and pay nothing for it, for it is written in explanation that something similar is done in Austria and that Austria does not consider, regardless of the size of the trailer behind these vehicles. I think that for large trailers, larger than a certain length or similar, we should also have or introduce a special vineyard for the trailer. Because we can't just leave it all around, because we already know or sometimes know some trucks that had two trailers in each other, it can happen in passenger cars. I think that's what the Australians, who drive across Australia, actually has a train that has 6, 7, 8 trailers and a "shiba" over there. Someone will find himself, and in Slovenia he will drag a whole series of trailers for all his friends, but he will pay nothing. It would make sense to consider these matters here. It's true if there's a little trailer to go, but if it's bigger, I should have my own vineyard. In fact, I agree with the introduction of vignettes, I also agree with electronic or satellite tolling, but it is still a long way away, despite the fact that no one would have thought that those who want to be not followed by satellite. This is an illusion in which some of the strange parties who do not understand things live, but in general this is already in use, not by toll companies, but by some other institutions within governments, but this is happening and such tracking is not so unusual and has been in use for quite some time. Well, it would certainly make sense for Slovenia to deal with these matters, but I don't know, our Galileo, Europe, is far from being implemented. The former government did not do what it had to do to jump in there to cooperate with Galileo, to take advantage of this and direct matters or even to bring Galileo's headquarters to Slovenia. The incompetence was like that, but well, now it's what it is, it just can't help. When it was time, they didn't even respond to my initiatives in this regard, because maybe in the previous government - whether they didn't understand what Galileo was, maybe today some people don't know what satellites are, but they think it's something other than what's orbiting the Earth. Well, it is, just a broader debate about it is too much for them to understand. In short, I wouldn't be long. I absolutely support the first and second amendments and the third if the Government gives one delivery; the delivery is possible in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 144 to delete this delivery: 'no matter the maximum permissible mass of the trailer'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u42	[[...]] [[Advertising in the hall, talking to each other.]] Thank you. [[...]] Good bye to all of you, too, on my side. See, when we talk about the introduction of vineyards, first of all, in view of today's debate, both on behalf of the Gorenjeks and especially of all those foreigners who are in endless columns, hours and hours in the sun, they would burn themselves in cars to pay tolls at the toll station, told the Minister, the Secretary of State, the collaborators and the whole Government a great deal of recognition for the civil courage that they really show by overcoming these endless resistances of various lobbyes, which have also been reflected in much of the opposition's debates now on the introduction of vineyards. This is something that Slovenia urgently needs, and in Gorenjska we certainly know this more than anyone else, because it was like traffic in the last period in Gorenjska, which was something impossible. Here for several years, since the relaxation in the south earlier due to the war-infested area, traffic has revived again in this direction, and the columns, especially in the summer months, have been intolerable. We all avoided it so much that the Kranjčans, and especially from around the people, drove along the old road, which is why it has also become one single column to Kranj up to the traffic lights in Ljubljana, and this was not really so much because of the savings that some of you have already talked about, although of course every tolar or every euro in the last period in Gorenjska is still valid, it is one argument that is worth listening to, but mainly because, in fact, despite the colonies, it was faster to go along the old road than to wait for the toll and then to join Celovška here. Now if I go a little further through the arguments. What I would like to highlight in particular is the red thread that is drawn practically in all the debates on any topic in this transition opposition - I am speaking, of course, of the Hydra SD, LDS and Really. In fact, look at the scheming! On the one hand, it is said that tolling in this way with vinjets will be significantly more expensive. On the other hand, it is said that it will lose the employment of so many and so many people, which of course is not true, for Dars has already said that everyone who is permanently employed will keep their jobs. Of course, neither the studies you spoke about and referred to so vehemently, nor your discussions took into account all those real costs that still exist in the current tolling mode. First of all, building toll stations is by itself a cost. Secondly, we need to know that this will lose a lot of good, quality land, which is not easy in Slovenia. Take a look at where these toll stations are, usually on the most beautiful plateaus, and how many squares only one large toll station consumes. After that, how much is the actual cost of carjacking, burning fuel, how much is the ecological costs caused by congestion in front of toll stations, and only braking, and acceleration, which, of course, affects all costs that should be taken into account. When we talk once about the national economic aspect of this issue, no one in this room can convince me that tolling with vignettes is no more rational than the current method of tolling. So, of course, your reasons in this part obviously do not hold. But in the right light, they don't ring a bell until there's that essential misdirection. Look, on the one hand, you were vehemently defending a satellite that, by the way, is not as flawless a form of tolling as is now being said. In fact, why satellite tolling is moving so far. Firstly, something because of technical problems, because we know what is going on with this European satellite project. On the other hand, what no one says out loud is still in their minds, but it is when a satellite is actually introduced for each individual, a private person, not only knocks, but knocks on every home door. For satellite tolls mean that for every half-meter you know exactly where it is every moment. And that, by the way, is worse than Orwell ever imagined in any of his books on total citizen control. As a result, the question is when and what about this satellite system, on which some will still swear, will be. For this reason, it makes sense to switch to vignettes. Some of the costs, by the way, that you mentioned in the same breath when you advocated a satellite system and opposed the introduction of vignettes, such as the demolition of toll stations, the issue of employment and so on, would have been exactly the same or even more radical as now when a satellite toll system was introduced. That's what they say. That's not an argument. But to get to what is the highest form of transfiguration - many of you have predicted the "breakdown" of the budget. This expression has literally been used previously. And on the other hand, in the same breath, we proposed an amendment that you are advocating to exempt large exceptions from this toll system. Now who do you think's a fool here? If you are actually afraid that there will be negative consequences for the budget, for the construction of motorways, then, of course, your first interest must be that everyone is consistently covered in this toll system. However, if you are sure that the money is too much, then you can possibly propose an exception, which must be such that it is actually excusable. And here is one Slovenian specialty, which as a Gorenjec I am very much alerting. See, the toll system so far has been significantly different when it comes to border areas of the country, as France or a number of other comparable European countries. There are mostly very wide lanes along the border, usually 50, perhaps even more miles where there are no toll stations. Roads are mainly collected in areas directly near the capital. But there's literally no way to get on the road without paying the toll! In Slovenia, however, it was quite the opposite: the whole wide area of Ljubljana did not pay anything until now, but when you came across Šentilj on your own or you just came across the border crossing to the Rosno valley there at Novi Gorica, they immediately "cassed up". This is said to be true - let us look at this from the point of view of our citizens - the border areas have been burdened as much as possible, while the centre has become burdened as possible. And let someone convince me that this is fair, you all know that already those in the center have a much better starting point, a much cheaper life in a lot of areas, some opportunities that are not even available to those at the border. For example, I would like to know when they will have an Internet light cable to every house in Jezerska, because in Ljubljana, by the way, you already have many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many. This is said not to say that this current system is better than the proposed vineyards. From a variety of points of view, and in particular from a national-economic perspective, in terms of the linkage of all areas with the centre, it is better than what we have now. And of course, every claim in this case for some further wide exemptions is nothing more than one form of advocacy for centralism. It is no wonder, therefore, that in this transitional opposition, in addition to your hatred for the existing government, you only share a commitment to centralism, and you jumped together the moment the opportunity was shown to arrive at the introduction of the provinces, where the best element is to make centralism as much an end as possible. Besides, I'd like to draw your attention to this ruse. To say that it was too late, of course, was a tremendously strong resistance of the lobby, which we were able to see today. And some of the staff exchanges were that we came up with the idea that we could even deal with this proposal today, but it's here now. The one who says, "Too late, why didn't you do this years ago?" You were 15 years old on 45 bases - you never introduced anything like that. That's what they say. It's perfectly clear here. Moreover, this system should be discriminatory for those who only occasionally drive on motorways due to the current introduction of vinjets. This is one of the craziest, especially because I hear from Brussels that some people from Slovenia, who are close to either SD or Res, or LDS, themselves, are lobbied a little by the towers to get as much negative, negative back to Slovenia as possible with regard to the introduction of vignettes, so that of course they would use it in their pre-election campaign, which you are actually running here on this topic alone. In fact, the current price of vignettes, as proposed, is so low - and I speak like Gorenjec - is so extremely low that you must be aware that compared to someone who has now driven twice from Šentilj to Istria and has already had a six-year price of guilt in this cost or even saved something. And don't say that people are going to be discriminated against because of this, if they've only occasionally used the highway, now that's why they're being discriminated against in any way. Far from it! For them, it is fair who will also save, because everything will be more evenly distributed, from this national economic point of view, taking into account all savings, ecological, human, we will no longer look at those horrendous scenes that the Gorenians could see when mothers from the East, because they did not have air conditioning in their car, taking babies out of cars and carrying them into the shadows to wait hours and hours to pay the toll. All these elements will no longer be and, in view of all this, of course, this system is worth supporting, rejecting those of your amendments that go in the opposite direction, which I firmly believe are unfair, and especially then question the introduction of the whole project. And once again, I say that the introduction of vineyards will be one of the best things in the field of transport for its release, for our common good, this government and this coalition, and from this point of view, I am pleased to be able to vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Again, it is confirmed in the National Assembly that we are very well acquainted with road Members - either as users, as experts, I do not know, alone more than the user - and this also shows the number of applicants on this topic. Well, we're good acquaintances, and there's nothing wrong with that. The fact is, personally, I have no problem with the introduction of vignettes, at last, I would say, this step, which we have insisted on for at least three years in the Transport Committee on this more fair system of users of motorways in Slovenia. Finally, I will say that this happens and that the government has also prepared one model, which I think is placed, is good, it may not be finished, it will not be finished, we will probably have to wait a little longer at the end. The fact is that the construction of the motorway is in the final phase in Slovenia and this is an indispensable project for the development of Slovenia in all respects and we also believe that the toll so far, probably there is no one in the National Assembly who would doubt, they are simply unfair. That's discriminatory. What we have today is discriminatory because we pay one full price and one nothing. This is what is not fair, and it would have been expected that this would have happened a long time ago to find a model that would have been more balanced. And this vignette is the model that somehow among all citizens, users of such roads share with this price. And if that price isn't right and the Gorenjeks say that it's a low price, then it's true, isn't it? I think this is really a welcome news for Slovenia, for users and for all those who drive on these car roads. I am also sure that this stimulating price will give the expected number of vignettes in Slovenia, both six years old and one year old. I am sure that this price cannot be one obstacle, that citizens, citizens, users of the highway can afford to use roads annually, especially if we count today's prices in Slovenia, either in Primorsk, Styria, then the calculation will quickly show, but we Slovenians here are very exact and know what is worth us and what is not worth it. Not to mention models, that this is certainly also in terms of greater accuracy, pollution of the environment, that it may also be less pollution, less congestion - all of these are positive elements, it is difficult for anyone to 'dispute', whatever arguments here do not stand, sit down and are totally, I will say, 'we are kicking into the darkness', so to speak. As far as dividing into highways and highways. You know, this is where we'd make a mess. Last but not least, they'd make a mess of it when it's, when it's not, it'd be a mix-up between users and those who would control it and there'd be no sharing here. I don't think that's going to work together, for this transitional period, whether these are all motorways or carriageways, or whether they are of such or different character, to be paid and used. And wherever you use it, if you use it without that guilt, you'll pay the fine. The penalty, as has already been said, is the right one, one that will be binding to give the user thought that you will not be able to just avoid blaming yourself. And last of all, if you pay right away, 50% off is probably something. 150 euros is the lowest penalty - for immediate payment, it will probably give everyone the benefit of the doubt: "Oh, I'm not going to do that, I'd rather buy a vineyard." And there's, I think, this breakthrough. The numbers are lucky enough, so it doesn't actually work. Of course, we all probably want to get to the model that has already been discussed today, which will be optimally fair - by the number of kilometres transported. But there are probably traps and traps, problems, interests, lobbying. And maybe we can get some ash in here, too bad this hasn't been brought in any longer than it is. Let's be honest. I would also like to have a final system today, one that would reflect the miles taken along the highway, and these vines would fall away. But this has not been done for such and other reasons, despite the numerous pressure from Members of the Transport Committee to speed up. We may have been slow and ineffective here. But anyway, it doesn't make sense to yam back, let's look to the future. And this future with vinjets is the step that will certainly be positive. As far as transit and price ratios are concerned. I think that this transit in Slovenia is really big and we get a bit of a fight from it, actually nothing. I don't think it's going to be a problem for this transit to pay 35 euros to someone who will use Slovenian motorways a couple of times so that it won't be too high. If so, I think it is the sovereign right of the State, the Republic of Slovenia, to place such a price list. Otherwise, I doubt that Brussels can deny this sovereign right to set our prices for motorways. He can make a recommendation, but I don't know if he can decide not to. I don't know, I think it's the right of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly to set such a price. As far as the financial structure is concerned, I hope everything's all right. The model, I hope, has been overplayed as to how much of the money we urgently need for the final construction of the loan is about to be collected. I am optimistic that a large number of sold vineyards will give a positive picture of the financial structure, which I think is very important. And also expectations - I hope that they will be fulfilled, that citizens, as well as those in transit, will buy so many wines that this account will be covered or even improved, as is the current system. As regards the amendment to Article 1 by the Zares Group. Look, apparently he's even a nice, loving amendment - let's load the trucks. But the consequences can be what? - that these trucks will turn on local roads, they will be frantically burdened, which has already happened today, as speculations in the absence of payment of tolls are also possible, and this will result in - what? We're gonna ram local roads, the less traffic roads, because the toll will be too expensive for entrepreneurs, trucks, drivers. It's a two-sword. At that time, I wouldn't have hoped to go into this, and I can't support this amendment for these reasons. Which is also very important in the end, and at this time extremely up-to-date - referendums. I only hope that the opposition will not, once we have passed this law, I hope that, by a majority, they will recall a referendum to ask our citizens whether you are guilty in Slovenia or not. That is why I think it is time for us to say something about this - that we are Members elected to the National Assembly to decide on behalf of citizens and citizens, including topics such as wine, nutrition and other things. And let them not decide, let us not allow ourselves to force our citizens to decide what we are being paid for here, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u46	Thank you. Let me go from where my friend Janc left off. See, the National Assembly has everything on the 10 lines of explanation in this law regarding the financial implications or the cost of the functioning of the existing system and the introduction of the vignette toll system. And on the basis of these 10 lines, we need to decide today and know: what will happen to 4 billion Euros of debt at Dars, we need to decide what kind of toll system we will have in Slovenia, but we do not actually have any reasoned comparisons, data that we can make at all. And I'm actually appalled when I hear that our amendment, for example, will not be supported by the coalition for a reason because if we remove from the toll system the bonds and connecting roads that lead us to highway sections or toll stations, then this project will fall. It means that you have some additional information. But I am appalled by this information because it means that highways will pay those who don't have highways. And well, I just can't accept this logic, which is obviously very close to this government, because the same logic exists in agriculture. Those who have never received subsidies pay a tax today for what they have not received. Those who don't have a highway will pay the toll because they don't have a highway. Completely flawed logic, and with such laws, which are so modestly reasoned and transmitted to Parliament only with 10 lines, Mr Minister - if you can list more than 10 lines that talk about it and what the existing system is and what the new wine system will be like, then I ask you very much to argue about it. However, it is in fact clear from this text that only 10 lines of such talking about this very important issue are very important issues. And I am not just talking about today talking about the threat of further development of the highway network, but also about the threat of further development of other state roads, as well as the rail network. And if you mention interests and lobbying and so on. Who's interested today in the government's decision to go into the satellite system?Oh, my God! Whose lobby was in favour of the government's decision to make a decision without sound arguments, without careful analysis to introduce a satellite system. And of course, when she realized that it wasn't real in a year's time, she decided on her nose to blame, and now we are selling this as some of the greatest success in Slovenia in the development of tolling and in the development of roads. We all know, and I think that it is also a very simple solution that if we really want to solve the problem of all state roads, not only highways and railways, but only by introducing a petrol cent - not the euro, but a petrol cent - we could solve this problem in a much cheaper way, significantly more effectively and significantly more resources would be collected, and it would be fair, because those who have a stronger car will consume more fuel, of course, also through this petrol cent will pay more to use roads. The same applies to trucks and, in short, for all categories of vehicles, those who are larger consumers pay more. This is also a European principle for eurovignettes, which must be respected in Slovenia, far from being respected. In such a way that the user who burdens the environment throughout the logic of the European Union has to pay more. Well, in Slovenia we have a different opinion: the one who pays less will pay less, we will subsidize it, and the one who uses no highways will have to replace this subsidy. And that's the logic that I can't really accept and it's criminal and it's causing even more injustice than the current toll system. I agree that some sections have been excluded because politics has agreed not to set up toll stations there - unfairly, unfairly. However, this system is even more unfair to those who do not have a highway and will have to pay EUR 35 once to a doctor. Why should someone pay 35 euros when they go to a doctor in Ljubljana? Why? Why not introduce a daily blame for such cases? Here I would like to draw closer to this honest relationship, that when someone from Ribnica goes to, say, a doctor, he pays maybe 1 euro a day, not 35 euros a day. It would be a system that would be closer to that honesty. For half a year and a year, guilt is definitely a fraud, especially for those who do not have highways. And also those who will cross Slovenia only once who may go on vacation across Slovenia. This is an inappropriate burden on all those who visit Slovenia either by accident or in particular those who come from areas where there is no highway. And if this system were truly built as it seems, in Slovenia we would also think about daily vignettes or weekly and similar solutions, so that everyone in Slovenia would have at least about the same conditions for paying what you use during such a period and in such miles as you actually use it. And I'm really curious, government representatives, why don't you introduce a gas cent that allows for a fair toll when you buy fuel? This cent is someone who spends more fuel driving very far a day and who consumes very much fuel every year, through this cent will also pay more to maintain roads, not just highways, to maintain all roads. And why didn't you consider this solution, why didn't you go to this option? Why do we prefer to talk today about an extremely expensive toll system with vignettes? An extremely expensive system, more expensive than the existing one. And why are we talking tomorrow about an even more expensive toll system that will be a "kobayagi" satellite system? Therefore, only the most expensive options are used for solutions in the field of motorways, and we pay for all these expensive solutions, and in particular I reiterate those who do not benefit from these services or to a very small extent. And once again, I think it is really necessary, at least at this stage, when the matter is not clearly agreed when we do not know exactly, nor by the proposer obviously do I think, even from these ten lines, that Parliament cannot understand whether it is a good law, whether it is an appropriate financial consequence or not, it is wiser to allow all those who visit hospitals for a single use, such as a visit to a hospital, not to pay EUR 35. Why should we burden them needlessly? And that's our proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. I'm not going to look for arguments against vinjets just because it's a pre-election law that voters like. I prefer to try to think more broadly and also about all the things that have already been said. The first is certainly a price, for this is also the amendment that we are currently discussing. As far as trucks are concerned, as far as toll is concerned for those who are actually the most destructive of highways, we know that several thousand times more than one truck is damaged on the road working from a passenger car, I'm just wondering why trucks are avoiding Austria. I'm in favour of trucks being more burdened up to contribute more, but I'm also in favour of selectivity. Last but not least, domestic carriers pay more than foreigners into our budget when they register their trucks. I also agree, of course, that the price of vineyards is low, so that there will be no additional burdens in this regard - not only on average, but those who will have to pay more for wine than they pay under the toll system as we know it now. But then this has consequences in lower budget revenues and also in Darsa's own business. But that's another story. Last but not least, this government has put the financing of highways entirely on credit and they have no interest in how that money that was released in the budget is being spent. Justice and honesty are discussed primarily by those whose virtue is not exactly a virtue. However, as to whether this way is just and fair, whether it is second or third or fourth, of course, each has its own view. Everyone also has his or her own position and interests, and in all of the above, they could also find arguments for and arguments against. If this toll is turned into a gas station, sometimes it was a dinar, then a tolar, now the euro, look, of course we don't have this direct correlation. Because a car that consumes more petrol doesn't destroy more highways, it destroys the environment. But then these are environmental taxes mainly for trucks through Pomurje, which I talked about a long time ago. An agreement was reached with the predecessor of the Transport Minister, including with the Minister of the Interior. Minister Podobnik, for environmental taxes, nothing. And again, of course, we have not achieved what we would now, I agree, maybe we could bring in at the back door so that those environments that are the most burdened, which also have the most damage due to excessive traffic, could get something for it back. The biggest problem, and we are all aware of that, is certainly Pomurje, where a million 200 trucks a year on ordinary roads, not highways, are rolling. Let me finish with a case like this that I started. Although this law is highly favoured, it will certainly reduce congestion at toll stations. I welcome, however, that it is one of the few that are also geared towards more coherent regional development. The fact is that less developed environments tend to be more distant from the centres. And to get to the economy, to get people to the centers where everything is happening, it takes more time and more cost, not just the highway, but also gasoline. And now, as it is said, I can understand this as at least one of the contributions to more coherent regional development. And that's how I'm gonna try to look at this law. And once again, I'm not gonna be looking for arguments against just because it's really one of the pre-election laws, but if I do my best, I'll find something good for [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] I tried, I found it. Listen, I'm closing because time is chasing me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Member Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! If we need to evaluate the current toll system in Slovenia, we could attribute to it that this system is unfair, that this system is unfair, and especially extremely harmful to the environment. The data known to the public that every day only in the area of congestion by truckers at toll stations goes into the air about 100 to 120 thousand litres of fuel, can tell how much damage only trucks in the environment cause, that we are not talking about those in the air of lowered gases, including by personal cars and others. On honesty and injustice, however, each of us can also judge on the basis of information or data that it is estimated that about 1/3 of drivers or users are highways that do not pay tolls, mainly because they avoid toll stations. Or how many of those, especially around Ljubljana, do not actually have to pay the tolls, because the system as it is in Slovenia allows them to do so. Now I ask all those, mainly by the opposition, who oppose the solutions with the vignettes. Tell us how all these weaknesses of the system can be improved or eliminated. I don't think there's any better system than guilt right now. And that is why, of course, I support this proposal of the law and also congratulations to the Government that it has also come up with this or decided that we are going to do this. The blames are a system that will be in operation in Slovenia for two or three years, and in any case, even if we go to a satellite system or when we go to a satellite system, it would be necessary to find a different solution in a transitional period, and that is for sure. The gas dinar or cent that colleague Weber proposed earlier, but would this system be fair? In fact, anyone who buys a liter of gasoline, even at home when he cuts grass, should pay a gas cent to use highways. In fact, they give toll payments or motorways only to those who will also use these motorways. And there's something else that's very important about these vignettes. That really foreigners will pay a little more, but not least, that's right. In the past 15 or 20 years, as many highways have been built here, a very large part of these motorways have been built from the budget. It means the taxes we have contributed to this budget by all - citizens and citizens in recent years. Therefore, it is also right that we now have this thing taken into account through a slightly lower price of vinyl. If anyone asks if the blame is a fair system - yes or no? I say yes. As I have already mentioned, we will pay all those who use highways, all those who do not use highways will not want to, do not have to buy vineyards. Mr Weber, too, if he goes to a doctor in Ljubljana and does not want to pay the vignette, he can use the road. So there's no dilemma here. The surroundings of Ljubljana, about 30 kilometers away, a little less, a little more. All of them have so far used highways and, of course, destroyed them, had no need to pay for anything. Now, we're gonna pay. That's right. Speaking of punishments. I'm sure the Slovenians are an honest nation. I don't know where all this fear is that whoever wants to be dishonest and will have to pay the penalty in case the offender gets caught, it pays the penalty. Why are some now so determined that those who knowingly violate this arrangement will be rewarded in order to give such a practical alternative? You can give them in your budget in the congregation a subsidy for the offender if you think such a punishment is too much. Whoever violates it will consciously decide to violate and, of course, pay. But I'm sure there'll be very few of them. Therefore, these penalties, whatever they may be, are not too high, even if they are paid immediately, it will be comparable to penalties, for example in Austria. Of course, I will gladly support the marriage and I am sure that such a law is supported by the vast majority of Slovenes and Slovenes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u51	Thank you, too. I call to the floor the Ambassador of Matthew Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I would just like to point out that the substance of our amendment, which we have tabled in the Zares Group, is precisely in determining the sustainability of the financing of the motorway network. Actually, I personally have to say that I support the introduction of vignettes. I don't have a problem with that. In fact, this is beneficial for the citizens, even personally, I think that even this system, which we now have is not fair, will also not be fair, but will mostly be more favourable for the vast majority of citizens. It has to be admitted. But on the other hand, it is necessary to ensure that the system is financially sustainable. I cannot understand why you do not actually support that trucks, among which 90% of foreign trucks that destroy Slovenian motorways, are much more burdened than personal vehicles, in the same way as in Austria. All of us who drive daily on the highways can see that they're covered in foreign trucks. They are becoming increasingly impenetrable, in fact there are a lot of foreign trucks on these motorways and instead of diverting at least part of this traffic to railways that are sinking in losses, even in such a way as to charge them a higher toll, this does not happen. You obviously don't have that courage, because it's clear some of the lobbying is back on track. That is why we can read in the paper today that the Minister of Transport is already preparing some additional reliefs for highway operators, and it could be arranged very nicely. If you want to load only foreign trucks, you could first raise the toll to everyone at 32 cents per kilometer, and then eventually, for domestic motorists, you could introduce, I don't know, investment relief or what's broken down. And in this way, in fact, we would put the burden of financing the Slovenian motorway network on foreign trucks, which are the largest. Every year there are 250,000 trucks on Slovenian highways. I said they're transporting 25 million tons of cargo. In fact, even though we drive three times as many trucks as we do in Switzerland on our highways, we pick up eight times less tolls than Switzerland. Is Slovenia such a rich country that drivers of passenger vehicles and citizens of Slovenia will subsidise foreign motorists, tell me. Because I don't think we are, and we need to make order here. And if you are already introducing guilt, which is beneficial for citizens, then fine I can support it, but then let us also regulate the issue of foreign freight vehicles and charge them what they actually have to pay to reimburse at least part of the costs for actually destroying the Slovenian motorway network and also causing the columns.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Member Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since it has already been mentioned before that disagreement with one of my statements that I should only briefly quote what the Transport Committee's Chairman's report has signed, it states that the members of the Committee have unanimously considered that the introduction of tolling with vignettes is appropriate, and I have found that, despite this agreement after the introductory remarks, we note that these occurrences are not as cohesive as some would like to show. Well, there are a lot of concerns about this system that we are now implementing. That's what this whole debate proves. My fundamental thought, which I express as someone close to nature protection, is that which I express because this proposal opposes the basic principle of nature protection; that the burden bearer should also pay the burden. It's not like that in this system right now. The one who will burden many times, the one who will burden with a bigger car, the one who will burden with a greater weight, etc., with larger releases due to larger cars, etc., will therefore pay the same as the one who burdens only occasionally, the one who has a smaller car with less greenhouse gases and I do not agree with that. And this is disproving the basic principle in nature. And so we sacrificed the basic principle, and as a result, we also sacrifice nature protection. I do not agree with the principle of solidarity introduced here. And this principle of solidarity means that those who drive smaller cars, personal ones, subsidize trucks. Those from the lower social strata subsidize those who have substantially higher wages. And the same vignette, the same price for the vignette will be paid by the unemployed, who here and there may be driven from some parts of the highway, because he has to move, like that president who will be, as director, a staff member who will be interrogating him, who may have, I don't know, 300, 400, 500 thousand euros a year's salary. [[...]] That's not fair. And we in the Dessus Group believe that it is possible to eliminate this injustice. Because the law, as it is now proposed, is flawed, I also support the proposal, the first amendment to the article we are now talking about and I do not support the third one, even though the coalition has signed it because it is bad. And so much for justice. Justice, for it has been mentioned that what is righteous for one another is unfair for another. You can't barter with justice. Something's fair or it's not fair. That something is convenient to someone but not to someone else, it has nothing to do with justice. And as long as those who are materially more modest have to subsidize richer and more economic activity, I will be convinced that this is not a just system.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Comrade Bajc, I'm glad you're the chairman of the committee, but you know for yourself that I can't give you a replica under the rules of procedure. However, I will open another application circuit later when you can also speak in accordance with the session's timeline. Member Milan Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u56	Thank you, Vice President. I must admit that in LDS we have calculated the time needed, so I will focus only on a few small details of this law. I'll talk about what some people are saying today, but it doesn't fit the truth. I don't know how many tests, studies, simulations I've been listening to today. One study, one simulation, one analysis by Members sitting in this Parliament or sitting at a meeting of the Transport Committee, we have not seen. So, I don't believe these studies have been done, I don't believe these simulations have been done, and I think that if they're not, I hope it's not even a lie. I can also say this about the proposal proposed today with amendment number one. I don't know where that 0.32 cents came from, and I don't even know what kind of comparison it's made, and I don't even know what effect it would have had. We cannot make such irresponsible decisions in this National Assembly about a law or amendment that does not have competent numbers. And a statement at the expense of the minister and his team is, in my opinion, justified. Somebody said today that the Maribors don't pay for their lunch. I would really like to see the one in this House who thinks that Maribor has a ring. Maribor has no ring, Maribor has such traffic problems as all major cities, except Ljubljana, but Ljubljana also has its problems. Maribor has a part of a fast road, and this fast road goes through the city. And the one who proposes such an introduction of vignettes to pay for the highway from Šentil to Gruškov, which means that someone will drive 9.6 kilometers on the highway, and then he will get on this fast road, of course he will not do it. Like the one who comes from Lenart, he won't take the fast road because he won't want to pay, but they'll all ride over the Fasaks. I don't know if you know where the Fasaks are. Those who are preparing the laws, go there, look, find out what the situation is, and you will come to the most devastated part of the city of Maribor. And so we're going to target the Fasaks. And when they get out of Fasak, they'll literally come into town these people, these drivers, and they'll be driving around the city instead of getting them on the highway as quickly as possible. This is due to these vignettes and changes to this law. And with such inconsistence, it is difficult to vote positively. In principle, one would say that guilt is a solution, maybe a just one, maybe a little more fair than the previous solution, but clearly, if you look at it in general and globally, unfair solutions, because they impose the same burden on everyone or those who drive a lot, do not burden themselves more than those who do not drive at all or who have not taken the highway so far and will rarely use the highway. The previous solution is clearly that if you look at it in general and globally, unfair solutions are, because they burden everyone or those who drive a lot do not burden themselves more than those who do not drive at all or who have not yet taken the highway at all and will rarely use this highway. And this is only part of this nonconsistency, which is a dilemma and a problem that leads us to not know how to decide, in view of the not-so-friendly instrument towards citizens of Slovenia, that, in terms of the consistency of the law, in terms of the sustainability of public finances, we will finance the construction and maintenance of motorways and return credit. [[....]] And as a result, these decisions will be difficult in the context that the Government has conceived, but the pre-election battles will go into their account and they will be torn apart and probably in favour of a proposal that the nation likes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government! What's going on here today is just a guarantee by the opposition and reminds me of yesterday's debate on diocese diet, exactly the same, just that the arguments are different and the topic is different. Instead of trying to figure out what could be improved, no, but generally against. Now you're saying that the system is good, but let's take a case if someone is from Shentil or if someone comes to Slovenia first stops, stops, stops in the Pesnica and speeds up, and then comes to Fight again, and they have to do the same thing for trucks, then they have to stop again in Vranska, and then they have to speed up again, and then they get to Blagovica on the other side of Troyan, and then they stop again, and it accelerates, and then it's the same thing in Ljubljana West, but then it's a little better place to stop at Sezhana again. And now, if we put this together, it has to stop seven times at a good 200 kilometers, that's every 30 kilometers on average, we have to stop, make a stopper, and then when the morning traffic is released again, we make a shut-off, and the joy is that it's nowhere to be found. And you say that Slovenia will become a police state because of the vignettes, and now I ask you if you have to stop on the highway every 30 kilometers and you have to pay for something like this, maybe not a police state, but a motorway country, it's nowhere else in Europe, and let's face it again. And after the new, when the vignettes are gone, it won't be necessary to stop, it won't be necessary to speed up, and most importantly, those who are a little environmentally conscious, when you wait outside the highway station won't have to get the engine started, because in the summer you need air because it's so hot that you can't handle it, especially if you have small children, and in the winter you have to have a heating and a cheerful heat on dozens and dozens of tons of fuel and exhaust gases going into the air. And when you claim that now only control of this vignette system will be more expensive, I would ask you, what is this "traffic consultation" that is only more expensive to maintain the ABC system, and I will ask you what this "traffick consultation" could be, which has spent or charged Darsa 2.6 billion tolars of formers only to maintain the ABC system per year? Multiply by how many years we have this, and what billions come out. I wonder if this "trafick consult", which maintained the ABC system and had 11 employees, charged 2.5 billion per year, maybe it wasn't the main reason why we couldn't introduce vignettes, but our neighbours in Austria and Hungary could have introduced them. They probably didn't have that "consult." That kind of reminds me of truck licenses. "Jumbus" is such that it was nowhere to be found. Some hunters who sucked that money so it wasn't for anywhere. I don't know why it reminds me of that, but it does. When you talk about how unfair and unfair the system is, I'm going to ask you which system, where something has to be paid, is fair. He's not fair. The most righteous thing is to sit on a bike and drive, and you don't have it all. The main fault was when Mr Zimšek, when Director Darsa, collapsed the closed toll system. That was the biggest mistake because at the time we actually paid as you actually spent miles, as much as you drove on the highway and paid that much. Remember when it was, who demanded it, where this gentleman belonged. I think he belonged to the LDS, and that was at the time of the success story. I will support the basic law, but not the amendment, except for the one drafted by the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam President. First of all, thank the leadership of this National Assembly for allowing for a wider debate, given that time was not enough and that open things were still something else. Second fact, thank God that this government recognized the mistake of appointing a first minister who was not susceptible to guilt and appointed a new one who quickly became, but just before the elections, "every honor", but also on your account were three of my questions about the toll system in this country and you answered all three of them that he was excellent, and now you have introduced the vignettes. So you're going to fix yourself. But if we move on. The price difference between the current system and the introduction of vineyards lasts about 100 million euros. Tell me, please, before we decide where you get them. Maybe through the incentives for food you've put in place, to stimulate electricity, as the government has put it, in the bidding for heating, as this government has put it. It seems to me that my mom, who is 80 years old and doesn't drive, has nothing to do with highways. As far as the prices are concerned, Mr Grimes, I believe you'll listen to them when you say no one will be beaten. Bo, you mentioned Shentyl. You probably don't even know where that is. You saw this once on TV because there were brave fighters defending Slovenia, so far a man has been driving from Šentilje to Maribor, not by his own fault, by your own fault, by your old road, and by his old road, and by his way to Maribor because you and Paloma are doing what you do, he had to go to Maribor to work for no euro. Give him 75 today. Don't say it's free and it didn't hurt anyone. It's for these people. And if I can get back to the amendments. The use of vignettes on the curbs, if you expect a million people in this country to buy a vignette, so that they can drive to work, and we've built fences in this country to release traffic through the city centre, you'll be charging them for 75 euros a year today, so far. As far as the price of vignettes is concerned - the price of vignettes - you have now asked yourself the Minister, what is 75 euros a year for 350 euros a month's salary, how much has this government managed to get the salary to minimum? This is a reasonable price in this country. But the price must be appropriate to the system you control, because in other areas you've put people on the bucket. But what it would look like if the price of a vignette was, I don't know, two months' wages of an individual worker in this country, and not to apologize for doing anything, I don't know, I don't know what kind of hall it is. You didn't do anything. You've kept people to a minimum, and you've given them a minimum of vignette, because otherwise it can't be. Or will you take their regress so that they can drive on Slovenian roads? As far as congestion is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, for trucks, everything remains the same. What are you going to change? What are you going to change for trucks and roadblocks? There's still one ramp behind him. When they set up on the highway from Maribor to Ljubljana or from Šentilj to Ljubljana, the trucks in the lines closed half the highway. So far they've had three belts, and now you're giving them one. Don't say anything you've released in this country, anything you've contributed to reducing emissions. The use of vinjets and the price of vinjet is welcome. We will all be happy to support it, even those who use the highway more than twice a year. But this is a pre-election move that will only take two years. And if it's so good, so cheap, why won't it go on, what satellites and I don't know what? Please let us be honest with people and citizens and citizens in this country. The price is appropriate according to the standard in this country. It'll be a cheap ride, I agree. And it's right that it's cheap. But from somewhere, we're going to have to make a difference in price, given the debt we took to build the freeways. And don't tell me you'll be the minister from your salary. Or you, Mr. Grimes, from yours. In my opinion, we will be citizens and citizens together, through some of the new taxes you have introduced in this country, so that farmers can no longer meet the tax forecast. Given that this is a matter of appreciation, we will support the law, but only out of political inspiration, not out of some reality in this country that this Government wants to show and amendments, as you proposed. I'll tell you what. The amendment proposed by the coalition, Mr Grims, to take your smile out of your lips. You can drive anything in your car in the back, and you'll drive for free. Why? Because you're from the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u62	Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Otherwise, I have not heard that anyone would be against this law, at least explicitly, even though it is still evident that the opposition is against it. So far, in fact, a positive decision has been taken by the Government to introduce vignettes. But the fact that we have doubts about it and question anything, I don't think there's anything that could hurt the coalition and its brain. I am glad that this solution came about, especially because when I put on weight good and bad, it weighs well. Yet, this bread is not so sweet and so soft and contributes to other things. For example, I am afraid that in a year or that this National Assembly, whatever its composition, will end the blames because they will not solve the problems they are now trying to solve. And I'm sure you know that in the coalition, or you would have forced that with the previous minister two years ago, but of course then this thing wouldn't have been as fresh and as smooth as this road looks. In such matters as road network and transport, it is likely necessary to think very locally and then act globally, it is said, at national level, and to take data from different backgrounds. Surely the system so far has been very expensive, lifeless and unjust. The wines are also likely to be sold at toll stations or burgers in those kiosks - somewhere, however, these costs have to be included. The guilt is also a cost, and if you sum it up, it will probably take a while to use the wine to make the case work. I doubt that this will all cover up in one year, or in two or three years, when we're supposed to go to a satellite system that's probably the best or at least that's the way it's going to be. As far as punishment is concerned, I don't think they're anything special. However, it is usually a conscious violation of the rules, and even in these places where people have been used to hunting those holes for 20 kilometers and driving for free. I will also not deal with converts who, years ago, strongly opposed vignettes for various reasons, in the end, there was usually such a strong nail in an argument as the European directive, if I recall correctly. But neither would the lobbying, because one of them has a lobby or one are more connected to Dars, one of them, one of them with the other, someone might also be with some company that introduces satellite tolling in Germany. After all, this world is all connected, it's just something else. Either you're connected work and fair or you're enchanting me not to use any stronger expression. When introducing the vignettes, it also seems important to me that the Minister, whether he has taken it into account or not, has certainly responded to my initiative regarding motorists. It is true that we requested or wanted this to be free of charge, which I think would still mean something when compared to the destruction caused by trucks. After all, most motorists also have cars and will pay twice. For the day-to-day migration, this seems most important to me, but this is a good solution, and there are more and more of you in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u63	Thank you very much. However, Member Cyril Testen has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr President, Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! I'm going to try to illuminate things primarily from the perspective of those areas where I come from. For me, the introduction of vignettes is certainly for the government, for the ministry, for Dars, a simpler solution, and also a more effective and even more positive sign. From a fair point of view, however, it seems to me that a special solution is worse than tolling has been so far. I'll explain why I think so. We built highways in Slovenia partly with budgetary resources. We built them in some areas, other areas, but some of them are 50, 70 kilometers away, we didn't have a choice of taxpayers, we all paid in the budget. From this point of view, we covered some kind of solidarity, and I don't think there's a way out here, but as far as covering the second part of the debt building, it's credit, but that part we always said would be paid by the users. The users of the highway are, to a much greater extent, those who live and move along highways and highways much less than those who are very far from the roads. I can say that from the area where I come from, because I come from Posoča, the nearest highway is about 50 kilometers, not a highway, a fast road, but from where I'm home they're even further away, and I don't think that's fair for these people. I hope to say that there are about 60% of people living in this area who, perhaps once or twice a year, need a highway for vacation, perhaps for some spas or perhaps for some hospital visit. That's all most people in this area need a highway. That is why I do not agree with the statement made by Mr Jelinčič that they should go on local roads, but I think that these people should also be given the opportunity to use highways because they have already paid the taxes. I suggest that those who are 40 or more kilometers away from the highway be blamed for the "shank". That's because I think that at least in this way they're partially covered by what they've been paying for years and years, because I think they're using a little bit anyway. Maybe you could make some sort of selection here between those, in that way -- where someone is employed. So that I, Mr Jelinčič, have made that claim, I see it more than that those blames or our highways will pay on account - mine and the Jelinčič ones who do not use them. But I don't think it's right that it's not fair and that's not how I stand for it. That's why I would; I'm sure these people will actually be looking for solutions on local roads, which I don't think is fair to these people. I agree with any solution that would bring such a way that it is paid after use. I would agree with that, but this is not the solution, perhaps a partial solution with the help of vignettes to actually also introduce blames for different, for smaller periods of time, says, I don't know, maybe 10 or 14 days of guilt. So from this point of view, I believe that the blames are a good solution for the country and the DARS, and I am sure that the calculations are correct and that they will cover that they will give the expected funds, but I certainly do not think they are as fair to everyone as they try to show themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u65	Thank you very much. So we're still at Article 1 and the amendment. However, I am reopening the procedure for applying to the debate. Please. Three Members have applied for the debate, and Member Martin Mikolić has the floor first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Well-known Vice-President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I support the proposal to introduce vineyards. However, I think that we have, or that some of you have, been overly dramatic about what is right and what is unfair. Of course, it can never be perfect. But somehow I can't accept the fact that some of you are explaining, as the case was mentioned there in Maribor, but now some will instead of a so-called fast road drive through the city. I think today is the biggest problem for all of us drivers, how to get to the desired place as soon as possible. If it weren't for that, we wouldn't be so visual as to see a neighbor in a car or a chauffeur or a chauffeur hiding with his hands, probably swearing and so on. And that's what I think he's going to go to where he won't have to. Because if everyone goes there, then it means there's really gonna be a traffic problem. So I don't see any problem here that people won't judge themselves, I think we're actually almost manipulating these debates here today. People will decide for themselves, but it is true that the law somehow states that everyone or somehow everyone should feel the need to buy wine. Because in the final phase, if he does some analysis over the course of the year, but how many times did he use this vignette, he'll certainly get some positive result, as far as I'm concerned, I'm now speaking in terms of whether, if I may say so, he was a viable investment in buying a vignette. I'm sure there's very few people who don't use highways, at least so many times that it'll come back to him. In addition to those, other cases or much of the debate was about Ljubljana, about the ring and so on and these transport roads. I am firmly convinced that all these Ljubljanans, at least twice a year, are those who use the least highways, but are only on the highway. As it has been said, this is a transitional solution, which, at the moment, certainly brings a lot of positive results, especially in view of the fact that it will not be necessary to stop and buy or pay tolls so many times on the highway. In this respect, I also support this proposal. Once again, I would say that we will all be pleased together, but certainly it is difficult to prepare such a law for the satisfaction of all citizens and citizens, particularly in this segment. If once satellite tolls will be sure, and I am aware of this, much more justly, but all these aspects, as has been explained by the Ministry and those, I would say, are a profession that says that this is a good solution in this transitional period, I am also sure that it is. That's why I'm going to support this marriage, and I don't think it's a good solution to these two amendments, so these two amendments, I'm not going to support the first two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u67	Thank you. Member Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u68	Thanks again. Very briefly on three things. Firstly, it must be said that those who have concerns here in the National Assembly are not alone, but also have many other experts and NGOs, not just because they want political evils. We have genuine concerns about some of the implementation proposals. Secondly, those who have concerns are not against a better way, but we find that some things are not what they could support and therefore some amendments are proposed that could improve things. If all of this helps to make parallel roads less burdened, highways will be more burdensome. On the highways it's faster to drive, it's harder to brake, there's warmer releases bigger and so on and we're just moving some problem from one end to the other and we're not sure that this is the only environmentally acceptable solution. And as for the sustainability of payments, let me remind you that Dr Jean Oplotnik, who has calculated the two different numbers that have been calculated in a three-fold ratio, has said, but if this does not work what is now proposed, we have two other corrective measures. But when the government passes the exam, people have to go to juvie. And I'm afraid they'll have to pay for it later.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u69	Thank you very much. And Ambassador Breda Pecan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, a number of colleagues have already said a lot of interesting and, above all, very involved arguments that stand under which I would also sign. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the points concerning these vignettes and the amendments to Article 1. By the way, I would like to say that I will also comment on one of the amendments to Article 2, because it seems to me that there is no point in wasting my time waiting for Article 2. So, I believe, for the first time, that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads by introducing vinjets shoots at nothing and works that country only harms. The fact is that Slovenia is a member of the European Union and that this law violates the most fundamental rules of the European Union and we do not worry about anything, at least some of us do not. I'm not going to explain why I think this marriage is even filed. However, I would say that a large number of Slovenian citizens who have cars and who do not use toll roads now will be very affected by this law. You can say what you want, but those people who came to Maribor, Ljubljana, to us at Primorsko, to Novo Gorica and used regional roads, and were forced to use fast roads or motorways where they were not towed, and there are no more regional roads. For the last time, the highway or fast road from the border to Koper is no longer an alternative. You can walk down some goats' paths, but those goats' paths are only known to very locals, and I don't even know them, even though I live nearby. So the people who have so far driven to work in Koper of Scofia will have to pay the toll, even though it has not been necessary so far. And don't tell me that in France it's 50 kilometers away from the border all without toll stations and that toll stations are just around Paris. That's a fat lie! The one who says that has never been to France or wants to deceive us. I know that the highways around Paris are tens of miles uncharted, just the opposite. And I don't want to say that everything needs to be centralized. I think with this approach we hit people who have the lowest wages, people who have saved up so far had to turn every cent twice so that they could survive a month, and now we're going to hit them on their way to work, from work, when they're going to work at some center where they're in traffic. By the way, I would like to say what a significant part of the money for the bonds around Ljubljana has been contributed by the Ljubljanaians from the municipal budget. So that no one would think that everything, including the coastal fast road, was partly financed and built by us on the beach. We didn't get everything from the state budget. And now how strange that is. But now we're going to have to because of this, but they're going to have to, because these vignettes are going to do very well, and I'm going to say, support, stimulate me. Why? Because I will save more than 1,200 euros a year. You know what that means! Let the Slovenians and the Slovenians hear just how much we MEPs will save with the introduction of vignettes. We'll be one of the most well-stimulated for them. And I'm still against it. Why? Because it seems to me that the first reason that this law has repeatedly been said is to avoid fair treatment with regard to the theft of motorways and roads in general and in relation to pollution, even though we know that a tax on air pollution from fuel is being paid, however, the toll is also part of the reason that pollution is increasing. And in such a way, it means that those who drive around very much are not burdened in proportion to how much we drive. But those who drive three times a year will be burdened as we are. This is certainly unfair, not to an individual as much as to nature and to our roads. And second, what I would say is, under Article 2 of the SDS, NSI and SLS amendment, I would almost hope here, and I would like to believe that DeSUS had mistakenly supported this. Because if I understand this amendment correctly, this is typical proof that we are completely subordinate to the lobby of our trucks in Slovenia. And this amendment is a disgrace to this National Assembly. In this case, the purchase and the prescribed method of use of the vignette allows for a motor vehicle whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 3,500 tonnes, be careful, irrespective of the maximum permissible mass of the trailer. It is said that trucks with 35 euros per half year or 55 euros per year will be able to drive a total of 20 and more tonnes. Listen, where did we come from?Oh, my God! So where did we come from?Oh, my God! Are we even normal? Can we afford to say such things? I tell you that this government has done more damage with its actions over the last six months, with its proposals for laws, than it has been able to do in the last three years. And I think we should really think about these things before you go into a tolling system just before we get into an electronic toll system with satellites. And don't tell me that big brother is the problem of electronic tolling on satellites, because we already have a big brother in these devices, which almost no one is giving up anymore. When we carry a cell phone with us, a big brother can know where we are, what we're doing right now, not because he doesn't have a recording, but where we are, and he can see and know.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new application circuit. Here you go, please. Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u72	Thank you, very briefly, Mr President-in-Office. First of all, on my part, an apology to the representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. In my speech, I probably mentioned the price of the annual guilt of €75 in enthusiasm, but this is the price of 55. But this only increases the difference between Darsa's current income for repayment of credits and the profits that the state will receive with wines and will have to compensate citizens and citizens of this country. One of the respected colleagues, who is not among us now, mentioned that people will decide for themselves. That's not true. We've forced some people to have guilt. Especially the ones from the places that drive to the city center and use the carriageways. We forced them, they don't decide how to drive anymore. We forced them not to say that people would make their own decisions. We also forced those who have two cars in the family, one for vacation or longer periods, and one used by their wife to get to work. Even those with two cars in the family. One car maybe for a vacation or a longer ride, one car used by a woman to take her to work. We've also forced them here to use vignettes for both cars and not just for one, say ABC. And the second question, Mr. Secretary-General. We have heard that trucks are a very large thorn in the heel, and at all these costs of tolls, tolls, transportation. Let me explain why Slovenia has not decided on the so-called GO-BOX system when it comes to trucks. This would release traffic, reduce emissions and more. Don't tell me it's too expensive. I know the price, I know the system introduced by Austria and it is significantly cheaper than the existing toll system and perhaps slightly more expensive than the vineyards introduced by this government. This case could be a little better for trucks, because even trucks wouldn't have a ramp, they'd be easy to drive and they'd have a GO-BOX system every few miles that would tear it apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Ambassador Dushan Kumer, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The Minister and the team and of course the Government sees what a mess you've made with this proposal you came up with this spring. Today's debate itself, already here, but I think it also reflects some public mood, has divided Members and I think that people in this country also live on those who live on the curbs and highways and on those who are 40 or more kilometres away from it. Those of us who are supposed to be paying, those who are far away, today was one proposal, and they would not pay for it from 40 miles [40 km] ahead. This, of course, means that this is a proposal that I do not know if he has been well thought out enough. But I'm sure of something, but it's at least 10 years too late. You're saying it's a good, better, best system, but at the same time, you're predicting it'll be short-term. Two, three years to the new system. It's hard to convince me that this is going to be better. That's why I have my own explanation. If we sometimes used some of the stickers we had on the car to say that they were serving a lobby, but they were called Miraza, but I don't know what, then of course this proposal to vignette at the moment, in 2008, was forced by some other lobby of dowry that would not make stickers, but from a specific proposal of marriage, the introduction of vignettes, then, of course, forged extra gain. I'm not just going to talk about motorists, I'm going to talk about all those who have more or more cars, and of course they're also a lot on the road. They're going to save you a lot of money. And let's just say something about the second belt around Ljubljana. None of you who are in Ljubljana, I think, will be able to visit your capital city in the future after July 1st. Because I don't think it's possible, except after August past me, but through Podutik there through Tosko Čelo to come to Ljubljana, not to come to the circular and, of course, to Ljubljana. So the vignette is mandatory for anyone who intends to come from somewhere else to Ljubljana. I'm not talking about us using this all the time. And last but not least, I would remind you and read the magnetograms of what your ministry is, what the Minister of the Interior is, what you coalition members have been saying about the so-called former car stickers around costs. There was an unlimited philosophy. There was no limit to the imagination. Until I don't know how to stick, they can't put stickers up to pollute the car and so on, and that's why these are all the reasons that this sticker can't be on the car. Now, I'm asking you: the cost of making wine, the cost of selling wine, the cost of controlling wine and something else. How much is this cost, if you can tell me today, this common cost? If we knew at that time about this famous Mirage Mirage, how much was the cost of just printing the sticker? How much are all these costs combined? Either it won't take more or at least a third of what we're going to be "cashing" in a year. And in the end. Speaking of unloading and so on. The number, and you claim it yourself, when we discussed the Road Traffic Act, you claim that the number of vehicles on the road is increasing from day to day. In particular, freight traffic is increasing on Slovenian roads. That's what you said a month ago in this National Assembly. Now I'm asking you. With the introduction of vignettes in view of this increase, who will gain? Will I win, not me, other, ordinary citizens who have one car at home, or will gain the one you mentioned here to increase the burden in this road traffic in Slovenia. With this article, which is now under discussion and this general discussion is open, you will, of course, grant forgiveness to the very lobby I am talking about and to which lobby, of course, that it will save millions and millions of euros by introducing vineyards or create extra profits at the expense of some others. Also on the basis of the fact that the state budget and the money and the small amount to maintain motorways and regional roads may be poorer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Well, once again, I am calling in particular about the third amendment, which in fact allows for an unfettered large trailer to be attached to the vehicle. Here I would point out once again that this is a big nonsense, because with those jeeps, there's a lot of driving to do. Look on the roads, you'll see that they're riding on the jeeps of a boat, yachts, exposed sailplanes, ultra-light planes, and these are all huge trailers, so I'm not just talking about those apartment trailers. Once again, I think it's stupid to let it go like that, and basically to the richest layer, because ordinary citizens don't have yachts or planes, but the richest layer is allowed to drive these big trailers anywhere, when they "fit". I therefore believe that, once again, in the third amendment, this dictatorship must be deleted 'no matter the maximum permissible mass of the trailer', but somewhere in the law it is necessary to find the possibility of such large trailers or larger objects being carried by these cars behind them, to also issue wine for them or to pay for them as much as, say, for one vehicle. True, the trucks will profit the most, here I agree, and I think we should squeeze the trucks somehow. The fact is, the trucks are destroying everything together, and this truck lobby is going to recover nicely. I don't know, maybe it's not a good wine for trucks because for a truck so high you're drivin' to cover the cost of destroying the highway, we certainly can't get in. Then perhaps it would be best for trucks to be taxed, so to speak, in a special way, for example, a mile [km] of freeway. With this, of course, we should make it mandatory to require trucks to take the highways, not as they do now that they are avoiding everything together and fleeing to smaller, regional roads. As far as the stickers are concerned, I must say: the sticker, the vignette - the cost of the vignette is anyway included in the price of guilt itself; but before Kumer spoke, it was the vehicle registration stickers, but those stickers were really pointless, because the registration of the vehicle, every policeman who stops you, presses on the "button" and sees whether the vehicle is registered or not. This is no longer necessary that it must also be pasted up, in my opinion. That way you can't mix wine with those stickers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u77	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on the three amendments to Article 1? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the four groups of Members, SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Does anyone want to discuss Article 2 and the amendment? I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. To the first amendment, which is something similar to the third amendment to Article 1, I have the same comments as I have already had. In this case, too, the "no matter the maximum permissible mass of the vehicle on board" should be deleted. I'm not going to explain it again because I explained it a few minutes ago, and I don't think it's necessary to explain it to the minister again, because I think he's a smart and lucid man, so he's going to accept it. I'm going to talk about another amendment, which reads, "Vinjeta must contain the text..." - those, I would say, promotional brands of the Republic of Slovenia - "... And feel Slovenia." However, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would suggest that what I am about to say be accepted as an oral amendment. This means that the inscription "Connect Slovenia" is replaced by the slogan of the Republic of Slovenia "I feel Slovenia". I think that would be possible. In fact, according to what the vignettes, as published, will be under every sign, both green and orange, the inscription "We Connect Slovenia". I think it would make more sense to write "I feel Slovenia" mainly because of the promotional meaning of this word. It is also true that this promotional meaning is not only the promotion of the state, but it is also a small reminder that Croats come primarily to a land that is not favored by it, and that this favor should be shown at least by reading what it says there and where it goes. Maybe Croatia will feel Slovenia later. I hope that before our authorities bring them into the European Union, as they quietly or with their backs bent down into the NATO Pact. I think it makes sense that, even in this way, we show little pride, that at least on this side we approach the European Union, because on the second side we are very far away from the European Union, except in cases where the European Union burns our finger and then we turn our backs again and agree to everything the European Union asks of us. I think that this amendment makes sense and I propose it as an oral amendment, as I have said, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 144 of our Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate or a re-application round. Here you go. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I must say that in the Lipa Group we have a few concerns about this amendment, not that we do not feel Slovenian, but "I feel Slovenia" I think it is the slogan of Mr Janša, and I will not be surprised if the government coalition even supports him. I am also surprised that one party, even though my ex, is so well acquainted with English and is ashamed of Slovenian. Slovenian is a very polite language, very good and I think, unless anyone else has any intellectual property and will enforce it over this slogan, but this is already beyond the limits of my thinking. I must say that, above all, the last part of the explanation for the Croats who will travel across Slovenia and for at least half a year with envy and anger look at the name of the so hated and unattainable country of Slovenia, but I think it is strongly disputed. If this Parliament had a serious desire to do anything, it would have hung a picture of a possible president who, in sayings, was "out of the opposition party" who, because of the bad Slovenian roads on the road some time ago, even two strangers with an alias: one was "Haložan", one was "Janževec". And in such a case, it seems to me that such amendments are completely unrealistic, especially if they come from a party that is considered national and in fact English passwords. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anyone else wants to discuss the amendment of the four SDS, NSI and DeSUS groups and the second amendment of the Slovenian National Party Group? And the amendment that the proponents orally announced? No! No! Then I also conclude the debate in conjunction with Article 2. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, or no later than 20 and 30 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. Procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u82	I'm sorry, but I'd like to warn you. The government had some time at its disposal to provide explanations and answers to our debate. Unfortunately, I note that this has not been done, which shows what the Government really has to do with the National Assembly when it considers such an important law as the change in the toll system, and I would like to express a procedural protest against such an attitude towards the National Assembly, and I hope that this will also be one of the additional reasons why we are really discussing a project that is not appropriate, which the Government does not actually know how to defend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u83	Thank you. You know I'm done. I also understand that the criticism wasn't directed at me. As a matter of fact, we're moving on to 7. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER REVENUE OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATION OF JUSTICE IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. I inform you that we have two hours and 25 minutes of time available for this point. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I therefore give the floor to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice. Mr. Robert Marolt, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. You have before you a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on judicial procedure, which represents a comprehensive substantive amendment of the law in force and provides several important solutions in the field of civil procedural law. The fundamental objective of the proposed novel is to ensure faster and more efficient management of civil affairs procedures. Although statistics show that first- and second-degree courts in recent years have managed the current caseload of civil cases, there is still too often a violation of the right to a trial without undue delay, mainly due to the excessive number of outstanding old cases. It is therefore very important that we try to change civil procedural legislation to achieve greater efficiency in handling procedures and reduce the trial time in specific cases. This purpose, however, amends in particular the provisions relating to the concentration of the main treatment and sanctions of the absence of clients from contracts, the notification of provisions concerning the appeal procedure and exceptional remedies. The draft law makes available to the court certain new measures that may ensure that all essential procedural material is collected before the start of the main hearing and that there will be no unnecessary proposal of orders as long-term procedures at the first stage are put into practice. Sanctions shall also be laid down for the absence of parties to the contract with a view to ensuring greater procedural discipline of the parties, the plenipotentiaries of the proceedings and thus to speed up the procedure. One of the main reasons for long-term procedures is the large number of annulments of decisions of the first instance - about 25%. Cases dismissed shall be returned to the courts of first instance for a new trial and thus the case of pending cases shall be increased needlessly. Therefore, one of the main objectives of the proposal for a new law is to significantly increase the proportion of legal cases that will be resolved in one way. It is proposed to amend the basic procedure in the appeal procedure in the higher courts, according to which the higher courts could exceptionally annul the judgment of the Court of First Instance. As a rule, however, matters will have to be decided on a substantive or content basis, either at a meeting of the Senate or after the main hearing of the appeal. The largest judicial backlog, as is generally known, occurred between 1994 and 1997, i.e. during a period which coincides with the preparation and implementation of the reorganisation of the judiciary. Dreams in the Supreme Court are of particular concern. Statistics show a steady rise in civil matters that the Supreme Court can no longer handle. This threatens the fulfilment of the constitutionally guaranteed function of the Supreme Court that, as the highest court in the country concerned with the direction and unification of the case-law, the introduction of a mixed system by law permitted by the Court of Justice of the approved audit is based on the example of German and Austrian law. This will allow the Supreme Court to decide only on legal issues which are essential for ensuring uniform case law throughout the country, which is its fundamental function. The next important news is the area of service. According to the Courts, the number of service failures in the legal procedure is up to 10% and the proposal for this Act simplifies the service, allowing for direct service between the parties during the procedure itself or their plenipotentiaries. A key novelty is that it is possible to serve on the address for service as defined in the amended Act on Registration of Residence. The bill also introduces other changes regarding the actual jurisdiction and composition of the court. This increases the value of the disputed case as a basis for the delimitation of real jurisdiction between district and district courts from EUR 8,300 to EUR 20,000. In all cases, the Court of First Instance introduces the principle of a judge-by-judge, and the possibility of a judge-by-judge judge is also introduced in easier cases at the appeal stage. Dear Members and Members! Given the importance of the proposed solutions, I propose that you adopt the amended proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Judicial Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u85	Thank you very much. In the framework of the parliamentary procedure, the draft law was regarded by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home labour force. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Drag Koren, to present the position or the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u86	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings to Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State and others from the Ministry. At its 43rd regular session, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Procedure submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. In the introduction, the representative of the proposer, Dr Lovro Šturm, stressed that the basic objective of the bill is to ensure faster and more efficient management of civil proceedings. The proposal for a law brings innovations mainly in the composition of the court, the service, the exemption of the costs of the procedure, the concentration of the main hearing and the imposition of sanctions for the absence of parties from the contract, in the area of the appeal procedure and exceptional remedies. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the comments made in their written opinion were largely taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups and the proposals for amendments to the Committee. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service has also given some warnings which cannot be taken into account under this legislative procedure because all the provisions to be corrected are not subject to amendments and additions, which will have to be taken into account in the next amendment of the law. The Registrar of the Court of Justice presented their written opinion at the meeting of the Committee. The Council of Justice expressed its doubts about the suspension of the Senate trial on family matters. Furthermore, in their view, due to the principle of the economy of the procedure, they should allow the possibility of repealing the decision of the Court of First Instance in view of the incomplete finding of the factual situation in cases where the Court of First Instance failed to carry out the proceedings at all and should not proceed with the entire evidentiary procedure for the first time until the Court of Second Instance. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the State Council, which supports the proposal for a law. The discussion raised the question to the applicant as to what advantage it was to end the family legal proceedings. The procedure in these disputes may be lengthy and the court may decide on very important and sensitive issues, with children often involved, and therefore the question of the appropriateness of the regime under which all liability lies with only one judge. In its reply to the question raised, the representative stressed that the draft law, while terminating the first stage Senate trial, also in the area of family legal matters, would not, however, reduce the expertise in the decision-making process. The expertise shall be ensured in such procedures that it is compulsory to attract experts from this field and social work centres. However, the proposer does not rule out the possibility expressed by the Council of Justice that such matters would be decided by the Senate, but not by the jury of the Laika, but by the experts in this field. Such a specialised form of trial is a matter of sectoral regulation and reflection under the new family law. With regard to the key and always important novelty of the draft law, which will be decided by the courts on a case-by-case basis, the representative of the applicant stressed that all the conditions for the effective application of these solutions are met in practice. The Committee adopted the amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups, but did not adopt the amendment of the SD Group to Article 25. As his committee, he accepted quite a few amendments. All the amendments adopted are included in the amended law which forms part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u87	Thank you very much. As usual, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups. My colleague Mitja Ljubeljšek will give you the position of the SDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable assembly, distinguished representatives of the government. The basic objective of the Law on the Judicial Procedure is to ensure faster and more effective management of the procedure in civil matters. The basic solutions to the amendment are in the following areas: composition of the court, service, suspension of the costs of the procedure, concentration of the main hearing and imposition of sanctions for the absence of parties from the claim, appeal proceedings and exceptional remedies. The review of these areas itself shows that this is a novelty that conveys important innovations in the direction of efficiency in handling civil matters. The bill makes available to the court measures to ensure that all essential procedural material is collected before the start of the main hearing and that there is no transfer of orders. Transposition is one of the main reasons for the longevity of procedures at first stage. As a result of this proposal, the law lays down penalties for the absence of parties from a claim to provide for a greater procedural discipline of the parties in civil proceedings and thus to speed up the procedure in order to avoid unnecessary postponement and, as a consequence, an unreasonable trial. All too often in life, we face cases where the parties point out that their cases before the courts take place for an unreasonable period of time. The legal novelty in this part also imposes greater liability on lawyers, so that the court’s incomplete or incomprehensible role as a lawyer will no longer return to supplementation or correction, but will immediately reject such a role. A lawyer who performs his job as a free profession and is a legal expert, who also has experience in representing parties before the courts, can and should expect a greater degree of care than other parties. The following set of amendments, which are also important in this legal novelty, touches on the appeal procedure. It is undeniable that one of the main reasons for the longevity of proceedings is also the large number of annulments of decisions of the Court of First Instance. The Supreme Courts of Recommenced Decisions shall refer the Courts of First Instance to a retrial and thereby increase the caseload of pending cases. One of the aims of the marriage novel is to significantly increase the proportion of legal cases that will be resolved in one way. Thus, a substantial change in the basic conduct of the appeal procedure in the higher courts is proposed. This is proposed by transforming the main legal control procedure into a procedure with wider powers, which is subject to a final decision on the matter or a ban on returning to trial. Thus, the amendment authorizes higher courts to sign the hearing whenever necessary for a substantive decision. In the event that the higher court finds that the shortcomings can be remedied at the Senate meeting, it will not call for the main hearing and it will be decided by the Senate, or even by a judge of the individual, if the Senate so decides on the weight of the case. An important novelty brought by the marriage novelty is that it authorizes a higher court to only address identified irregularities and deficiencies in the actual state, detected infringements of substantive and procedural law. Exceptionally, a higher court will be allowed to refer the case to the Court of First Instance only in the case of an incomplete factual situation which has occurred due to incorrect legal qualifications. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the amendment to the law on fair procedure brings important innovations in civil proceedings for judges and for parties whose purpose is the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the trial also through the concentration of the main hearing. The suspension of the suspension of the disclosure of new facts and evidence shall be moved for a period prior to the execution of the first main hearing order, but only if the court of the party has requested that certain facts or the submission of evidence be declared. In doing so, it is proposed that the effect of the diversion shall only apply to procedural infringements which may be imposed by a party before a court of first instance. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] She didn't do it legally. [[...]] On the basis of all of this, we will support the proposal for a new law on justice in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is undeniable that it is precisely procedural legislation that has a significant impact on the duration of judicial proceedings and, of course, it is reasonable, even from the legislator's point of view, to monitor closely how the proper rationalisation of procedural and legal procedures can affect the speediest provision of judicial protection and the speediest completion of judicial proceedings. Of course, such changes do not allow disproportionate violation of the rights of participants and parties in proceedings for the quality of judicial protection of their rights, where the parties must have sufficient procedural catheters to provide them with an adequate position in a particular judicial procedure. Therefore, in principle, we do not oppose the proposed amendment to the Law on the Judicial Procedure, which brings news in particular about the composition of the courts, the service, the exemption of the costs of the procedure, the concentration of the main hearing and the imposition of sanctions for the absence of the parties to the contract, in the area of the appeal procedure and exceptional remedies. We are particularly committed to simplifying and modernising the service and sanctioning customers due to their absence from the contract. We know that it is precisely this which makes a significant contribution to the extension of the proceedings. We agree with the opinion of the Council of Justice that it is not disputed that the proceedings in the field of family law also end the trial in the Chamber. The judge should not be able to make up for other necessary knowledge in this area, which could be adequately complemented by the judges of the jury who came from specific fields of expertise. However, it is also true that in such procedures individual experts and representatives of social work centres are generally attracted. With regard to this proposed novel, we also assess in the Group of Social Democrats that it has been introduced into the legislative procedure when it has not been adequately prepared. Such an assessment is also based on a number of such comments by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and on the large number of amendments that were subsequently tabled by coalition groups at the request of this service or accepted as their own by the parent working body. Practically one third of the articles had to be drafted and amendments adopted. Let us once again stress that it is the Ministry of Justice that imposes too often in the legislative procedure on short and urgent procedures and through extraordinary meetings poorly weighed, poorly prepared and superficial proposals for novelties, too often the novelty of recently adopted novels, which also pollutes the legislative procedure in this National Assembly. Not to mention that the work done in the National Assembly is the work that the applicant should have done before. However, since some of the changes in this bill are still meaningful, we will not oppose the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Thanks again. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u92	Dear President! Dear fellows and fellows! I am usually starting a presentation by the Liberal Democracy Club by saying how we are back in front of one of those laws that was created as a fixer of something that has recently been corrected. I'm sorry. I'm really sorry I can't do anything else today. The year is about when we had before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Procedure, PPP-C; today we have D. So again, something that is being done on new and if we look at the goals of the novel, we will see that they are very similar. Therefore, we certainly do not want to participate in this "flashing" of legislation in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as the proponent does and we will vote against it. And I want to back that up with something else that you've already heard today, and since I have some time, let me do it again. I quote, Dr. Danilo Türk, this morning: "According to the circumstances which have a significant impact on the work of the courts, it is also extremely important to frequently change the legislation under which the courts judge. The continuous and comprehensive amendment of laws and, therefore, their frequent nonconsistence also leads to the extraordinary burden of judges to find answers to newly open questions arising from legislation and to establish a completely new case law. The rapid and repeated change in legislation also leads to a lack of clarity on what is legal and legally permissible for citizens, and therefore the possibility of mutual agreement is less. As a result, the defendants and the defendants also have unclear prospects for success in the judicial dispute, and this leads to unfounded expectations and dissatisfaction with the work of the courts which are not and cannot be held responsible for such results. Any legal change, even if necessary, therefore also carries with it a certain period of time necessary to adapt and thereby to extend the judicial proceedings and to increase their number, and in particular the basic system laws require a thorough professional consideration." End of quote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u93	Thank you, too. Shall I say thank you to the President? The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-known, distinguished Vice President, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! In a fair trial, the Court resolves disputes from personal, family, property and other civil relations. The basic law on judicial procedure was adopted nine years ago and has been amended three times to date. The extensive novelty that we are discussing today has been in preparation for more than a year, and its aim is to ensure faster and more efficient management of civil affairs. In the New Slovenia Group, we would particularly like to highlight the main changes relating to the appeal procedure. One of the main reasons for the longevity of the proceedings is the very large number of annulments of the decisions of the first-degree courts. According to the data, as many as one quarter of the decisions have been repealed, which means that the annulled decisions are being returned to the courts of the first instance for a new trial, thus increasing the number of pending cases. The Novela proposes that, at the second stage of the appeal, a final decision or a ban on retrials be introduced. The courts shall call for hearing as long as necessary for the decision. If the Court of Second Instance finds that the deficiencies can be remedied at a meeting of the Chamber, it will decide definitively at the sitting itself and will not call for a main hearing. The Court will exceptionally be able to return to the decision at first instance only in cases of an incomplete factual situation which would result from an incorrect legal qualification. The Novela changes the actual jurisdiction of the courts and raises the boundary threshold between the District and District Courts from EUR 8,300 to EUR 20,000, introduces the possibility of a judge-to-judge trial even in the appeal proceedings if it is not a complex matter of legal and factual issues and if a decision on the appeal cannot be expected to resolve an important legal situation. An important novelty is the changes in terms of service and decision-making without the main consideration if the parties agree to do so. There is also an increase in the marginal amount in terms of the low-value dispute, from €833 to €2000. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposed changes are important to refresh and modernise the justice process. The systemic flaw that has so far been the most outstanding has certainly been a small possibility for the court to ensure the concentration of the main hearing. The amendments proposed by this amendment are correcting this instrument to ensure the acceleration and cost-effectiveness of the justice process. Spatial conditions are provided, debate rooms, as was said, will be provided by autumn, and additional judges will also be available. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the amendment because we believe that it will create conditions that allow us to break, however, with practice that causes a lot of problems when things have travelled from the first stage to the higher level and back, and that there will be a new situation in the area of civil affairs, as it will ensure faster and more efficient management of procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u95	Thank you very much. My colleague, Kristijan Janc, will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. My apologies, but today's visit by the President of the State to the National Assembly seems to be working well for my colleague Gulič. As we have expressed our support for the Law on Lawyers, the Law on Court, the Law on Free Legal Aid, we also express our full support for the proposal for amendments and for supplementing the Law on Justice. Why? Because we support the Lukend project, which lists the amendment of this law as one of the measures to increase the efficiency of the judiciary and remedy the judicial backlog. We have welcomed the information that all the higher courts in the country have now reached a plan for the abolition of judicial arrears and are thus no longer preoccupied with matters. The fundamental objective of the proposed novel is therefore to ensure faster and more efficient management of civil proceedings. Any change in a fair trial may, however, be a double sword. We cannot simply aim headlong at speeding up procedures and overcoming delays, but we cannot forget constitutional rights and the general principles of fair trial. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposed amendments and additions are welcome to achieve their purpose and remain within the framework of constitutional and conventionally guaranteed rights. We support the rise in the value of the disputed case and thus achieve the unloading of the district courts. District courts will therefore deal with more difficult and difficult matters of greater economic importance more quickly. The judge’s trial has also yielded positive results, as the first-degree Senate trial has not proved to be a success. However, according to the Minister of Justice, it was possible for us, for example, to have a family code allowing for a Senate in the event of family disputes, in which professional colleagues would also be involved, while drawing on records experts from this area, social work centres and so on. It is also right to simplify the process of personal and non-personal service and thus increase the efficiency of service at all. We know that a lot of people can easily escape the heat. Already in the law on amendments and additions to the law on the registration of residence, we talked about allowing the service of natural persons at the address of the service, whether permanent or temporary residence. A positive change is also that the transfer of orders can be reduced, which is one of the main reasons for the longevity of the proceedings at the first stage. The arrangements so far have made it possible to delay procedures, so that we can impose sanctions in cases of unjustified failure to order, because, unfortunately, we will only achieve a greater procedural discipline of the parties and thus speed up the procedure. It is known that the issue is also a complaint phase of the procedure. The law does not provide the Court of Appeal to a large extent so that it can make a final and substantive decision on the matter. In other European countries, they do not know this, but we know what practice looks like in us when things travel from lower to higher and back levels, and even three times, four times or even more. The large number of annulments of first-degree judgments is therefore one of the main reasons for the longevity of proceedings. In the parliamentary group, we support the objective of the amendment proposal to significantly increase the proportion of judicial cases that will be resolved in one way. The draft law authorises the court of second instance to sign the hearing whenever necessary for the decision. If the Court of Second Instance finds that the shortcomings can be remedied at the Chamber itself, it will not call for a main hearing and thus, either at the Chamber or even after the Judge of the Court of Justice in the case, will decide definitively. We agree with the proposal that the Court of Second Instance will only have to remedy the identified irregularities and shortcomings in the actual situation, the found infringements of substantive law and the found infringements of the legal procedure. We believe that it is much easier to dismiss the matter and to refer it back to the Court of First Instance than to the case after the main proceedings have been carried out, to decide definitively and to write an appropriate judgment. However, this situation has already greatly reduced people's confidence in the functioning of the courts, as they have been punished in some way because of the mistakes of the first-degree court by reopening the whole process and increasing the costs of the proceedings themselves. The aim of the bill is, therefore, to ensure that the Court of Second Instance correctly, on a case-by-case basis and finally on a case-by-case basis, as this will greatly contribute to the economy and to the acceleration of the proceedings in full. That is why, and because of all the above, the proposed law will be supported in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Yelen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Ambassadors and Members, Secretary of State! The central thread of all proposed amendments to the large-scale amendment of the civil justice procedure is the increased tightening of the obligations of the fair parties with a view to concentrating and accelerating the trial mainly by concentrating on the main hearing and reforming the appeal procedure. In our Group of Members, we believe that it is high time that, in order to avoid judicial failure and to delay judicial proceedings by the parties themselves, it has taken a comprehensive approach to solving this problem by amending the basic procedural law from a fair point of view. We believe that a number of solutions will also actually contribute to the basic objective, and this is the abolition of judicial backlogs. We fully agree with the proposaler's view that it is the duty of the parties to help speed up and concentrate the procedure and thus to judge within a reasonable time. Indeed, the conduct of the parties or their inactivity has often led to the delay of the proceedings and thus to a violation of the right to a trial within a reasonable period of time. Members of the DeSUS therefore fully agree with the imposition of sanctions for the inactive parties, as they themselves are responsible for the swift resolution of the dispute. The proposed amendments relate to a number of substantively linked sets, namely the composition of the courts and their actual competence. This is a new determination of the value of the dispute decided by the District or District Court. Further, a change in the direction of preparation is made more complete and reasonable by the parties or their lawyers. Clearer and more unambiguous provisions regarding the service of judicial documents have already been urgently needed, as we must be aware that the courts are now facing an extremely pressing problem, that is, avoiding the parties to the service of judicial writings, which consequently has a major impact on the continuation of proceedings and also on the decision-making within a reasonable period of time. The provisions have been drawn up in an appropriate and similar manner to those relating to administrative writings, and therefore we support DeSUS Members. From the perspective of equal treatment of the beneficiaries of the exemption from the costs of the procedure, we have already warned in our Group when adopting the amendment of the Law on free legal assistance that it is necessary to unify, since these provisions under the Law on free legal aid and the Law on the Right to Justice differ greatly, even though they lead to the same objective. The new law on free legal aid has recently been adopted, and it is now up to us to modify the law on fair procedure, which, according to our assessment, is also supporting this part of the amendments. However, the essential part of the changes that we believe will certainly contribute to the basic objective of this novel is the appeal procedure and exceptional remedies. The cases thus specifically dismissed will no longer be returned to the courts of first instance and thus increase the caseload of pending cases, but have been determined in this direction in order to resolve matters in the majority of cases in a legal way. Members of the DeSUS support the efforts of the Minister of Justice to complete the abolition of judicial backlogs and to accelerate and concentrate the justice process, so that we will unanimously support the amendment of the Justice Procedure Act, which, according to our assessment, follows these objectives.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Member Victory Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Good-bye! The Law on Amendments and Complements on the Judicial Procedure introduces order into a wide range of segments of the Slovenian legal system. I do not agree with the statement made by the President of the State when he said that the frequent inconsistentity of laws leads to exceptional burdens on judges, because I think that many judges do not even understand the laws and judge rather strangely, quite in mind and very inconsistently. But even if we take this as a lease, I think that the current law is correcting this matter in many ways. Surely, however, there is no way to attribute an extraordinary burden to all or give the same to all judges. After all, if we look at comparisons of how some courts in Slovenia can solve matters quickly, quickly, impractically and efficiently, such as the court in Krske, Slovenj Gradec or Vrhnika, as a very small place, while we have other courts, say district or county in Ljubljana, and in Koper, and in Celje, where acts are imposed on each other, and where order cannot be established, let alone the process flow is established so that it does not stand together. There is much good in this new proposal, one sure is the appointment of a judge or a judge of the jury. Of course, we hope that the judges will also take into account the reasoned proposals for the appointment. Many times, despite the fact that the legal basis for determining the judge existed, no one decided to expel the judge, but simply skipped the client’s request and went a little on their own. Just like they were used to for a long time before that. In the event of service, it is good that the possibility of alternative service to a householder or a neighbor is eliminated. There were strange things going on here when the neighbor, because he was in bad relations with his neighbor, simply hid the document and the service of this document was confirmed. It is good for experts to introduce the possibility of fines only for unjustified over-the-counting. However, a poor expert opinion has not been sanctioned. We are many times in Slovenia, or there are courts, judges and, above all, customers in the process, hostages of poor expert opinions. The backlog in judicial proceedings is also largely due to poor, inconsistent and incomplete expert opinions. However, there is a ball at the Ministry of Justice, because those experts who were once appointed as experts with the main premise that they are politically impeccable, no matter what knowledge they have, still largely shape the fate of many parties in court. Many more of these positive features of this law have been supplemented by the Law of Justice. We judge in the Slovenian National Party that the prepared material is good, and we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u101	The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Mr Boztjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Procedure, as well as most of the laws drawn up by the Ministry of Justice, are set out in its explanation as a fundamental fact to help reduce judicial backlogs. Given that this is one of the fundamental wounds of the judicial system in our country, we will not oppose the proposal of the law in the Lipa Group. However, we have some questions that I believe the representatives of the Ministry of Justice will be happy to answer. The first question that seems most important to me is, what is the advantage of abolishing a family-lawly Senate trial? Here you have also received a warning from the Council of Justice. It would be appropriate, and I think that, when it comes to family relations, these problems would be resolved substantially faster, significantly more just, if judges involved in the Senate trial with expert knowledge in the field of social work, psychology and protection and the upbringing of children. After all, divorce is a fundamental problem if I make the matter very general when it comes to these cases. And divorce goes to most cases in the first stage of child custody. Somehow a stable practice, not only with us, but also with Europe, is that it goes in principle, to whom, to what extent and to what extent children are allocated. The practice so far, when the main opinion was given by the Centre for Social Work, I find it inappropriate in those segments where the court did not take it into account. It happened in a specific case that the Centre for Social Work even twice gave the same opinion and the judge did not hope, she did not want to judge the Centre for Social Work, but took another specific reserve. Today, after the adoption of this law, we leave it only to the judge. We do not know what her role is, what her history is, whether she may have had similar problems at any time in her life. Last but not least, judges and judges in this country are just people and, like us Members and Members of Parliament, citizens and citizens, they have their opinions, and they can quickly fall under a certain influence in this opinion. And that doesn't seem appropriate to me, given that the family relationship is really the relationship where you have to have a special feeling, "feeling," if you want, in English, where you really need to try and do everything you can for the child, if you're talking about children. Well, when it comes to, I'll say, sharing is a small thing. He knows. But when it comes to a child, there needs to be a special feeling, and it seems to me that this feeling is a little neglected by this law. In some parts of the law, very strict and complex rules are introduced which should otherwise discipline the parties in the procedure. In practice, however, it will lead to the fact that the party will virtually not be able to act in justice without a lawyer. But respectable colleagues, remember a few days ago. You passed the law on legal representation. You passed the law on legal tariff. With this law, people will need a lawyer. Did we really give them cheaper access to a lawyer through the law on legal fees? Or have we only allowed them, in connection with this law, to be in urgent need of a lawyer? A month ago, we had a law on free legal aid. Did we really give them such free legal aid as we would like? Given the fact that we see by this law that without a lawyer, they will no longer be able to go to court. A few more flaws that time limits me to mention. But after all, no matter what happens in the Lipa Group, we will not oppose the law. However, I say that a lot of laws should have a letter in the end if they wanted to change or reduce judicial backlogs in that country or the letter a, if they were to abolish [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with your presentation by presenting the views of the groups of Members. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which I will lead or carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 23 4th Supplement to the 24th Official Journal of the European Union 4. in relation to the amendment amendment. So we are moving on to 89th Article of the law and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and the amendment tabled by SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm sorry, I didn't see you. Comrade Darja Lovtišar Bebler, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So this amendment to the amendment is more than welcome, because it very much illustrates what I have said critically on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group on behalf of the former, on the basis of the preparation of individual laws and proposals for novelties coming from the Ministry of Justice in the National Assembly. The amendment to Article 89 has already adopted the parent working body at its 8th meeting. 4th this year, it's a good fourteen days ago. This was an amendment which followed the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and which concerns a very important issue. It concerns the situation where the court of second instance finds that the misapplication of material law at the first stage has led to the fact that the situation has not been fully established and that the court considers, in the light of the nature of the matter and the circumstances of the case, that it cannot simply complete the procedure or remedy the deficiencies mentioned. I must say that I agree with this new amendment, because it is more precise, but there is not really any explanation of what the word "right" means now in the previous amendment, which is now deleted there, and what the word "exceptional" means in this new amendment. Thus, at the second stage, the court finds that, due to the misapplication of material law, the actual situation has not been fully established and that it alone cannot complete the proceedings or remedy the deficiencies mentioned above and, exceptionally, repeal the judgment of the first instance and refer the case to the Court of First Instance for a new trial. What does the word "except" mean here? If the Court of Second Instance finds that it cannot only determine the actual position or remedy the first stage error, why would it exceptionally annul this judgment and bring the matter back to trial at the first stage?Oh, my God! I think that there is a great confusion here before us, and more than perfectly in fact, it illustrates how superficial and inappropriate the proposaler of these changes is. We know, however, that following the proposal's direction, the previous parliamentary groups have tabled their previous amendments and probably, following the referral of the proposer, the same proposer, they are re- tabled a new amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Marolt, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. If you allow me, I would respond to this opinion from the distinguished Member of Mrs Darje Lovtišar Bebler. The fact is that, with this amendment to Article 89, when the word "rules" is deleted, it is clear that the compulsory courts must complete the procedure or remedy the shortcomings and decide on the case in the cases referred to in this paragraph, so that it is necessary for the correct or complete determination of the factual situation. Exceptionally, if, due to the misapplication of material law, the actual situation has not been fully established and if the Court assesses in a particular case, the only exception is if, in view of the misapplication of material law, the actual situation has not been fully established and if, in the light of the circumstances of the particular case, the Court considers that it cannot complete the proceedings or remedy those deficiencies, the annulment of the judgment of the Court of First Instance and the return to retrial could be exceptionally. It is indeed an exception to the possible exception or to the circumstances in which the court will assess that the case cannot be definitively decided at the second stage. However, I reiterate that only in cases where the misapplication of material law has led to the fact that the situation has not been fully established. This practically means that this does not apply to the situation itself or to the incompletely established actual situation, but only to the case that the misapplication of material law has led to the fact that the situation has not been fully established and that the court has assessed, in view of the nature of the matter and the circumstances of the case, that it cannot merely complete the procedure or remedy the shortcomings mentioned. It is therefore a nomotechnic and more precise regulation of this Article 89. If you would allow me here to explain only this when it was mentioned, why after one year the new amendment of the law on fair procedure. If you remember, indeed, last year you adopted a amendment to the Law on the Judicial Procedure, which concerned only a technical solution, the possibility of electronic commerce in fair matters and the possibility of establishing the conditions for the electronic operation of the Central Production Department on the basis of a authentic instrument. As for the time to prepare or enforce the law for the preparation of the courts, to prepare judges for the new legislation, I would only, if you allow, recall that it is clearly written in this law, in this amendment at the end, that this law enters into force on 1 October this year, so it is practically 5 months for the preparation of the entry into force and application of this law. However, as regards the delimitation of jurisdiction between district and district courts, when jurisdiction in district courts increases from EUR 8,300 to EUR 20,000, the application of these two articles in the amendment of the law is linked to 1 January 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I give the word again to Dara Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, by what you have just said, you have shown, not only that nomotechnics is causing you problems, but semantics and common logic, if you want, farming logic. See if the court finds, at the second stage, that it simply cannot remedy the first stage deficiencies, then, of course, it will annul the judgment. Not with exception. If he finds out he can't remedy the mistakes, he'll cancel. It can't be "exclusively annulled". What's it gonna do? What's the exception to this exception? So who's he going to put this case on, but if he's already found this court of appeal, he just can't fix the mistakes. Then who's going to make the mistakes? In this case, it is said that in any case, the Second Instance Court will have to annul the judgment and return it to its first stage. I'm saying that the word "exceptional" here is superfluous. And second of all, you're counting on cases like this to be extraordinary. Yeah, that's right. Just look at this sentence, and you will see, in every situation, when the Second Instance Court finds that it cannot only correct the first degree error and irregularity, it will annul the judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Comrade Zagorac, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the first stage, I must thank the distinguished President of the Government that, on behalf of the proposaler, who is not the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, he explained this amendment because I believe that there is no great interest on the part of the proposer, because they understand everything, at least to the extent that I look at the Chamber. But I'm interested in one thing, and it's already a colleague in front of me who asked you what the word "except" is stronger than the word "right". As a rule, however, it means under a certain rule, and it is said that if a court of second instance finds that there has been a misapplication of material law, to imperfect facts, it must, as was the case in the original text of the law, return the case to the Court of First Instance. But you wrote here that it must do this exceptionally. What's the big deal? If there is an error in the application of material law at the first stage, then it must be returned, unless the Second Instance Court is only able to determine this error and judge. But not exceptionally in Slovenia, but usually this is not possible and usually brings things back to the first stage. And here's the question. I'd be very happy to get the word "must" back, if only it wasn't capable, which is very difficult to admit if you're a judge, that you don't know how to judge yourself, but you have to go back then. What does it mean to return? What if it's not an exception? I don't know how to judge, but it's not. As a rule, or he must return, I think that the word relationship that was more appropriate in this amendment and I thank you in advance for your explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the floor. Mr. Marolt, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I would suggest that you read this amended article or amendment to Article 89 and the amended amendment in substance together. The fact is that the first sentence clearly states that not only in principle, but it will be mandatory for the appellate court to complete the procedure or to remedy the shortcomings mentioned and to rule on the case by judgment. That's the rule. That's the rule now. However, only in the event that the misapplication of material law has led to the fact that the actual situation has not been fully established and, in the light of the circumstances of a particular case, it is said that the judge will find or assess that it is not possible to complete these shortcomings in the proceedings or to remedy them, the judgment may exceptionally be annulled and return to the Court of First Instance for a retrial. This is only exceptional if it is cumulative [[...]] [[There's a group in the hall.]] Can I say to the end? Thus, two cumulative conditions will have to be met: for the first time, because of the misapplication of material law, the actual situation has not been fully established and if it is found or estimated that it is not possible to remedy this at the appeal stage, it will exceptionally be possible to return to the first stage. Otherwise it will have to do in this case. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u113	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u114	The Court of First Instance shall decide on the matter on a definitive basis. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. I can see more hands up. I'm opening the application procedure. Here you go, please. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u116	Thanks again for saying that. I fully understand the first part that somehow sets out the rule that he must, but the second part, if not, why not "must"? Even when there is an exception, it must annul the judgment of the first instance and return to judgment, but not "may exceptionally". It's an essential difference. I'm asking you again, what if a judge says because it says "may be exceptional" and there's no exception. I don't know, but there's no exception - he has to come back. Let us sharpen this story so that the judgments are correct. You know how many judgments have fallen in Slovenian courts because of the "sea", "may", "may be recommended", and how much this country pays to individuals, under the terms "suspect" money, and not just the state, including citizens and citizens, some suspects who are "may", "mora" or "recommend" or "exceptional" How many cases have fallen, how many billions of damages in individual cases are paid by citizens and citizens! [[...]] And let's be exact so that we don't have new cases happening when something "may" or "except" or "should be". Because if there should be something, then compensation by citizens and citizens should not be paid for the mistakes of the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Member Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. Here you go. Please, if you check if you have all your microphones turned off, colleague Ljublješek can't turn on his. Comrade Ljublješek, step to the next chair so that we do not unduly interrupt the meeting. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. Look, Comrade Ljublješek, he knows best for himself whether he works or doesn't work. He doesn't work for his colleague. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes. We'll resume the session at 2.30 p.m. Until then, say good-bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u118	I ask the Members present whether we can start a minute before the agreed time. No one's objecting. Good. Comrade Ljublješek, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I'm sorry this interruption came, but it really wasn't my fault. I didn't even intend to get involved in the debate while Mr State Secretary and Mrs Dara Lavtišar Bebler debated, because they were both lawyers and it was difficult to engage in their debate, but I listened to them very nicely. But then when my colleague Zagorac got involved in the debate, then I started reading, just as I understand. And I am pleased that Mrs Majda Potrate's master of celebrations has also come to the meeting, which will be the most able to judge whether the word is true or not. I mean it. I read it like this, the first part of the sentence: "If it was because of the misapplication of material law..." that I do not read to the end, "extremely annul". I understand that very well. Only in this case will the judgment be annulled. That is to say, if it is repealed, it already means that it must also be repealed. If it were to "rescind the judgment" it meant that it could follow that another case had to be annulled. However, since it reads "exceptionally", it is only for this case to annul the judgment. Which means he has to cancel, but only for this case. I would also like to hear Mrs Majde Potrat's expert opinion, because she is an expert in Slavicism. That's how I explain it to myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u120	In view of the fact that there are several applications, we will reopen the debater procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u121	First of all, I would say this, it is not always necessary to write down "must be repealed" in legal standards, but if it is written down "repealed", that is to say, it should essentially be repealed. So this "mora" is out. However, I am merely talking about if, because there is an exception to the general principle, the Second Court of First Instance finds that material law has been misused and that the Court of Second Instance alone cannot remedy this error, then, of course, annul the judgment and bring it back to the first stage. This "exceptional" here is superfluous. Because in any case, if only the court finds that it can't remedy this mistake - it brings the case back.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u122	Thank you. And a word or two more mags. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u123	Thank you. Well, this is going to have to be written in a magnetogram with gold letters, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that he took into account that I am a Slovenian and that I also have a clear position on this. For me, this is a vocabulary-taken conditioner because the sentence begins [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u124	Thank you very much. For the sake of the record, Members present, the microphone has been switched off for the duration of the meeting without my being able to exclude it. So I won't be guilty again. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Because of the passing of time, exactly, Comrade Bajc. Anyone else want a word besides the Secretary of State? The word is yours, Mr. Marolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you also very much for explaining to the honourable Mrs Majde Potrat. I would only point out that, with the word 'exceptionally', we just wanted to point out that the courts will only exceptionally bring matters back to a new trial if the conditions in this second sentence are cumulatively met. The fact is that the amendment of this Article or the amendment of the Court under the first sentence of Article 89 of the amendment or Article 355 of the Rules of Procedure will, as a rule, have to make a substantive decision in such a case as these circumstances are met. We just wanted to point out with this word except that the second sentence, so the second sentence, would not become a rule in practice. It is only out of caution that, in practice, when specific decisions are made, the Court of Appeal would not use this second sentence and automatically dismiss the judgments of the first-degree courts. However, the fact is that if you carefully read this amendment or this amended amendment to Article 89, it is practically a reverse sentence and a slightly clearer and more exact one, I simply stress, because it would not come in practice or be interpreted as a rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u126	Thank you very much. May I conclude the debate on the amendment and amendment? Thank you. So I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government for their participation. We're moving on to 19. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATION OF MEDICINAL PRODUCTS, EXTERNAL PROCEDURE. We have 2 hours and 55 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Council, and therefore by Mr Dark Žiberno, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, please submit an introductory presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! Please allow a brief introduction to the construction. With the proposal for a law, we contribute to the most urgent additions and amendments to the Medicinal Products Act, in particular with a view to better aligning procedural provisions for the pricing of medicinal products with Council Directive 89/105-EEC of 21 December 1988 concerning the transparency of measures governing the pricing of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in national health insurance systems. At the same time, it is also a matter of upgrading the scope of drug pricing. The draft law introduces and regulates the maximum permitted prices of medicines paid from public funds, while at the same time the possibility of an agreement between debtors and payers to achieve lower prices. In doing so, prices at national level are only subject to the maximum permitted prices, the determination mechanism of which is laid down by the provisions of the sub-legislative act. The validity of the price for products not financed by public funds is thus the maximum permitted price, which is designed in accordance with the criteria laid down in the sub-law, as well as a lower price than the maximum authorised price agreed between the health insurance undertaking or legal or natural persons engaged in health activities and financed by public funds and those liable to the pricing of medicinal products. There is also a legal basis for establishing an exceptional, higher price in exceptional cases, which is higher than the maximum authorised price, provided that this is determined by the authority responsible for the medicinal products. The draft law lays down the legal basis for issuing a sub-legislative regulation that will further regulate the field of direct sale of medicinal products to healthcare professionals and reduce the necessary years of working experience for a pharmacist. The law also regulates some minor corrections and regulates the conversion of fines from tolars to euro. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Mr Ivan Grill, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u129	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with colleagues! Dear Members and Members! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health is held at its 29th regular session. 4. 2008 addressed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Medicinal Products submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption and dealt with in a simplified manner. In an introductory explanation given to the committee by a representative of the proposed State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, he stressed that the amendments and additions to the draft law were in line with other laws and the legal order of the European Union. As mentioned, compliance with the provisions laid down in the Council Directive of 21. 12. 1988, with regard to the transparency of measures regulating the pricing of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in national health insurance systems. The Republic of Slovenia informed the European Commission that the area of pricing and pricing financed from public funds would be regulated by the end of June 2008. The proposed legislative text thus eliminates any irregularities identified under that Directive and also provides legal grounds for necessary amendments and supplements to the sub-legislative regulation, which further regulates the field of direct sale of medicinal products to healthcare professionals. And as a second part, this law reduces the necessary years of working experience for a pharmacist. Amendments to Article 8 were tabled by the SDS, SLS, NSI and DeSUS on the proposal. In most cases, they have taken into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that some articles need to be more precisely defined with a lack of clarity. In addition to the coalition, the Parliamentary Club of LDS also tabled amendments to the three articles. Following the discussion, the members of the Committee supported all the amendments tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. With the adoption of these amendments, the amendments of the LDS Club to Articles 5 and 6 have become irrelevant. The Committee also did not support the amendments of the LDS to Article 9, since, on the basis of an expert explanation by the Director of the Public Medicines and Medical Devices Agency, such a change would be unnecessary. The draft law was also given a positive opinion by a representative of the Council of State, who expressed the view that the amendment of the law introduces more order in the field of medicines and thus greater public financial savings, which could be usefully used for other purposes. The panel also took part in the debate and expressed satisfaction with the proposed amendments that the law actually brings a very important improvement in the Slovenian drug market, which already has over 3,000 medicines registered today. This enables our citizens or patients to have access to all the most vital medicines that are actually needed for successful treatment. However, financial resources, which will be saved under such legislation, will be able to purchase better and more expensive medicines that appear on the market every day. The Committee adopted the law and also submitted it for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the positions of the Group. The position of the SD Group Ambassador will be presented, presented, introduced to us by Comrade Bojan Kontič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The regulation of the prices of medicines financed from public funds is, as we know, within the competence of the Member State of the European Union and must take account of the provisions of the Directive. The European Commission has found a gap between our regulation and the provisions of the directive and has given us an official reminder. The field of medicines is always a matter of critical judgment, whether by profession or by the general public, whether it is the introduction of news or the price of individual medicines. On the basis of data, the cost of medicinal products has a trend of growth. The conclusion that the introduction of the current Regulation on the prices of medicinal products has mainly reduced the prices of so-called generic cheaper medicines is likely to be accurate and verifiable. We users of health services tend to think that new quality medicines are too small for us, and if not too small, their inclusion in our system is too slow. This is mostly about biological medicines. We can't go past without touching the availability of biological drugs. Access to biological medicines in Slovenia is not only slightly worse and comparable to European countries, as was said at the committee meeting, which is confirmed by concrete cases and also by research, Slovenia is lagging behind the European average in this area. This means that patients in Slovenia are given modern biological medicines at a time of delay and an even greater spread is seen when compared to how many patients are available. A significantly different view on accessibility to new therapies in Slovenia is shown by the European Health Care Consumer Index, which published and prepared the data. They say it is necessary to shorten the time needed to introduce new medicines into the public health system. This warning is known to everyone. At the end of last year we were able to see in one of the professional European magazines an article published by Slovenian experts from the Faculty of Pharmacy comparing the availability of target drugs in oncology in Slovenia and some selected countries. In conclusion, the use of oncological target drugs in Slovenia has been lower in most cases than in the compared countries. Let me also draw attention to biological medicines that are not associated with cancer. One of them is dituxima, and I apologize if an excuse is not correct, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] For rheumatoid arthritis, which has been registered in the EU and thus in Slovenia since July 2006, it has been for the past year and 9 months, or more than 600 days, and this medicine is still not available to Slovenian patients with rheumatoid arthritis, as it is not on the list of medicines that can be prescribed by rheumatologists in Slovenia, although it has also obtained the approval of the Health Council in 2007. [[...]] The bill introduces innovations in the national drug pricing model. The current objective is to regulate the maximum permitted prices and, at the same time, to agree between the debtors and the payers at the lowest prices. The fixing of the maximum permitted prices is an administrative matter, while the negotiation is subject to bond law. Unlike the current new national drug price management model, it introduces multiple prices for one medicine that are all valid at the same time. The national regulated maximum permitted price is valid as well as all agreed prices. By adopting the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the medicines law, the proposer has two main objectives in mind: to harmonise with the directive and to ensure adequate supply of medicines at a reasonable price and to monitor expenditure for medicinal products from public resources. The proposal states that the position of Slovenia as a country with stable and orderly placement of medicines in the public health system will be strengthened by the adoption of the proposal. These proposed objectives will certainly not be opposed by the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u133	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Members and members of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medicinal Products Act is intended to introduce transparency directives into Slovenia on the basis of the European Commission's 2007 official reminder. In the LDS, we find that this is done only formally with the amendments submitted, while the spirit of the directive is not fully taken into account. We are wondering, however, how it is possible that only now, as the basis on which the law is based, the 1988 directive, which regulates certain prices of medicinal products for human use, their inclusion in the field of national health insurance systems, since we have adopted the law in 2006, and the warnings of certain actors on the market with medicinal products for non-compliance with the Directive also go back to 2006. That the spirit of the directive, which provides for the procedures for the classification of medicinal products and the determination of the prices of medicinal products with the highest degree of transparency, is not fully taken into account, follows from the fact that it is only a matter for amending the medicines law, whereas the necessary sub-laws such as the Regulations on the Classification of Medicinal Products for Human Use have not yet been amended, and the Rules on the Prices of Medicinal Products for Human Use. Therefore, without any changes to the Regulation on the procedure for the classification of medicinal products into lists to be followed by the specific requirements of the Transparency Directive, the European Commission's warning will not be sufficient, although it might be considered as such. We have already noted at the meeting of the parent working body that the Regulation on the Prices of Medicinal Products regulates prices on a flat-rate basis and without evaluation the benefits of the medicine for Slovenian health care. The purpose of our proposed amendments has gone in the direction of the need to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of the medicinal product and its actual economic value. We therefore consider that the legislation, regulation in the field of drug price regulation, is still incomplete, as the area should be regulated in more detail, rather than allowing too much regulation by means of sub-legislative acts. At the same time, we can commend the proposer for withdrawing from the proposal the part of the law that spoke about medicinal products that were comparable to each other. In the LDS Club, amendments to Article 102 of the Basic Law, where the professional and working criteria for pharmacists are reduced, are assessed as a step back. The European Commission document published by the European Medicines Agency sets out certain requirements for the education, experience and education of the inspectors in question. That document shall require at least the same education and experience as laid down for the responsible person under Directives 2001/83 and 2001/82. By means of the proposed dictatorship and the postponement of the derogation from the provisions cited in the legislation on medicinal products, the Government wishes to proceed with the proposed amendment in contravention of the basic provisions of the EU acquis in the field of the inspection in question. In our view, it is not easy to allow lower standards for supervisors who decide on the supervisory procedure, on the suitability of the marketing product, on the appropriate conditions for the manufacture, storage and distribution of medicinal products. Where the inspector has inadequate education and experience, his decisions are easily contrary to the basic provisions and procedures for the handling of medicinal products. This may result in an inadequate drug that can endanger human health and life. Its lack of experience can therefore have certain consequences for the use of products of particular social importance, which are certainly medicines. At the same time, on behalf of the LDS Club, I would like to point out that only medical and pharmaceutical experts are now deciding on the financing of medicines at the expense of public funds. We can see this by looking at the composition of the healthcare board and the Committee for the Classification of Medicines. In our view, this is a weakness, as it is almost half a billion euro of public funds. It is necessary to include healthcare professionals in the process and to require applicants for public funding to analyse in detail the impact of such funding on both public treasury and the national economy in general. If we are to carry out economic savings fairly and rationally with economic resources, we could channel savings into new biological medicines and thus make them more accessible to these medicines. This objective, i.e. the most efficient use of public funds, has been aimed at all of our additions to the law. We therefore assess the claims that the public financial and economic aspects of the financing of medicines reduce the availability of medicines, such as fraud or demagogy. In our view, the opposite is true. It is necessary to take into account knowledge of the weaknesses of the current way and to speed up the introduction of changes that would allow additional savings to be made to introduce or increase the availability of new medicines. In the LDS Club, despite its shortcomings, we will not oppose the harmonisation of Slovenian legislation with the European legal order and the provision of transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Zupan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Last year, the European Commission issued an official reminder to Slovenia due to a discrepancy between the rules and practice in the field of the classification of medicinal products and the possible non-compliance with the provisions of the Directive, which contains essential requirements for regulating the price of medicinal products and their financing from public funds. We must take such a reminder seriously and as a requirement that the field of medicines should be regulated and aligned with the requirements of the European Commission Directive. As equal members of the European Union, we need to adopt and put into practice the implementation of standards governing the marketing of medicinal products and their pricing. The criteria for determining payments for medicinal products financed from public funds must be set in proportion and harmonised in all European Union countries, i.e. Slovenia. The law itself, with its solutions, brings to the field of medicines order, compliance with the European acquis and public financial effects in the form of revenue that can reasonably be earmarked for other health purposes, as this is of course necessary. Given that we have virtually all vital medicines on the market in Slovenia and can compare ourselves with other European countries in this segment, there is a real need to regulate transparent behaviour in determining the prices of these medicines on this market. The novelty also enables the public interest of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to receive a proportionate portion of the cake for their contribution to the national health treasury, while at the same time obtaining at a reasonable economically relevant and regulated price the medicine they need. By determining the maximum and also the lowest permitted price of the medicinal product, it will actually be possible to keep the money in the health sector. The drug regulation ensures an improvement in the conditions on the Slovenian market, and in particular increases access to medicines for all people. Finally, it saves access to better and more expensive medicines. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the novelty because we are convinced that it represents a positive solution that will allow the drug market to be regulated by European regulations and standards for home users of medicines, and in Slovenia it will increase access to medicines on a transparent path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the draft law as it complements the existing drug law with more detailed procedures for the pricing of medicinal products in accordance with the European Directive. At the same time, the self-price of medicines is being upgraded. The proposal introduces and regulates the maximum permitted prices of medicines paid from public funds and allows debtors and payers to agree on lower prices. The bill also reduces the minimum requirement for the number of years of work experience for pharmacists to two years and calls for the protection of experience in the field of medicines. The proposed arrangements are appropriate and comparable to those in other EU Member States. The subject matter of price regulation at national level is only the maximum permitted prices regulated by the provisions of the sub-legislative act. The valid price for medicines financed from public funds may thus be or may be the maximum authorised price established in accordance with the criteria laid down in the sub-law or a lower price than the maximum authorised price agreed between the health insurance undertaking or legal or natural persons engaged in health activities and other undertakings responsible for the pricing of medicinal products. Medicinal product price regulation is within the competence of the Member States which have developed different national pricing models over the past 20 years in the European Union. The prices of generic medicines are known to have fallen significantly in Slovenia on the basis of the new rules on the prices of medicinal products which entered into force in early 2007. The significant decrease in generic drug prices resulted in lower cost increases for medicinal products in 2007, allowing greater opportunities to cover new innovative medicines for patients in need. The generic drug market is well developed throughout Europe, for example in Germany 40%, except in Italy, where there are virtually no generic medicines on the market. The original medicine, which we also call innovative, is the one that comes to the market first or first to obtain a marketing authorisation. This product is produced as a result of years of very expensive research aimed at developing and offering the market a new cure for diseases for which we do not yet have the right medicines or for diseases in which they want to achieve a more optimal treatment effect, i.e. with less undesirable effects that mean raising the quality of life or a better way of taking the medicine. The patent protection of an innovative medicinal product lasts 11 years. During this time, the manufacturer of the innovative medicinal product receives the refund money he invested in development and research because he also made a profit. It is important to be aware that although there is a trend in very expensive biological products to narrow price corridors, the EU is still far from a single price. We are also aware of the opinion of the Chamber of Pharmacy of Slovenia, which has already proposed several times that, in view of the detailed guidelines on the pricing of pharmacy medicines, it is necessary to exempt them from the provision of medicines on the basis of invitations to tender. The question is whether this would mean the appreciation or encouragement of medicines for patients. In the parliamentary group, we support such changes as improving the system of pricing and price control, which allows for a reduction in prices and thus costs for patients and for medical bills. We also support an effective drug traffic control system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Ms Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u139	Nice hello to you all! In the Group of Members, we really estimate that we are not very successful in determining the model for the pricing of medicines in Slovenia. The fact is that medicines are financed from public funds. That is why it is also a field for high profits, as well as the growth of many anomalies, which we are constantly witnessing to and which we are in some ways merely horrifyingly observing. We therefore look forward to any additions and changes in this area in order to increase efficiency, up-to-dateness and, in particular, rationality in this area in order to save money and thus allow faster access to new, quality and effective medicines. The fact is that Slovenia has recently witnessed more and more negative assessments in the area of the fact that Slovenian medicines are not sufficiently accessible to patients in Slovenia. And the main criterion through which we assess this law in our parliamentary group is in particular the issue of the availability of medicines for patients and patients. We believe that despite the many assurances we have received on the Committee and where, unlike the position presented, many Members have also expressed concerns and doubts that we are weak in the availability of medicines in Slovenia and that everything is not as beautiful as it was shown to us. The whole range of areas is, in fact, constantly reminding us and reminding us of a number of problems when they are not actually able to access medicines or are not included in the Slovenian system or are waiting for long registration procedures or for inclusion in the Slovenian system. There are relatively few registered medicines in Slovenia, about 3,000. In this regard, our assessment is that we must be extremely careful about any matter, including the introduction and determination of a minimum price criterion, as I have said, a key criterion that can also cause difficulties in the way that the pharmaceutical industry can also withdraw from our market due to procedures. Therefore, I would also like to draw attention to such dilemmas in these amendments to the drug law before us. In fact, one of these dilemmas is very interesting for us, because if we read the law very carefully, then we see that the decisive and essential role in determining prices as low as possible, I will say, in the next stages, when the threshold is set, we will be given the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. That's interesting. In fact, it shows that it is the only institution currently in a position to enter into difficult negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry. But it is also true that the institution is primarily a mercenary and considers this issue mainly from an economic and financial point of view, which could also be a problem to some extent. Here we miss and are critical to the more active role of the Ministry of Health, which should represent it in this regard, because the Ministry of Health should nevertheless enter this story as those who care for the public interest for the interests of patients. And the Ministry withdraws and leaves it to others. It also seems to us that we need to be careful and ensure that price reductions do not lead to a situation where adequate choice of medicines will not be adapted to individual patients, given the side effects and the like. We also point to the situation where the same medicine can have different prices in Slovenia in different segments, hospitals or pharmacies. If I sum up, we're not against lowering prices - far from that. Clearly, we all know who we're dealing with and what the pharmaceutical industry means. However, we are in favour of lowering these prices to a level when the supply of medicines will not be reduced. The proposal for a law does not give this assurance, nor does any other act of the Ministry of Health. We do not agree that the quality of public health in the field of medicines is decreasing quietly, with the demagogic savings forecasts that are intended to benefit patients. In short, the proposer behaves, i.e. the Ministry of Health, particularly through the aspect of the payer of health services and not as the body responsible for public health. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] So they did not convince us that it was not just a matter of saving at the expense of human health. [[...]] And since it is still doing so after a rapid procedure, our doubts and concern that the applicant does not know exactly what he is doing and what the consequences will be are much greater.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u141	Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State! Dear Members and Members! In our parliamentary group, we are aware that the financing of medicines and the related public expenditure on medicines represent an extremely sensitive area in health care. This is due to the fact that medicines are extremely important for the protection of human health and that they are also the most sold market goods. The latter means that competition between producers or pharmacists is high. It is therefore right that this area is well regulated and that the basic trend in the development of legislation stems from the principle of public health protection, which is undoubtedly in the public interest of all developed countries, and it is also necessary to ensure that the development of the pharmaceutical and drug industries is not hampered. The Medicinal Products Act, which was adopted two years ago, has already satisfactorily regulated the area at the principal level. However, the reminder given by the European Commission made it clear that there are differences in the relationship between internal rules and the implementing level in our regulation and in relation to the provisions of binding European rules. The proposed amendments and additions to the government proposal therefore follow the necessary alignment with the sectoral European legal order, with regard to ensuring greater transparency of the measures governing the pricing of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in the field of national health insurance systems. As a subject of regulation of the prices of medicinal products at national level, the amendment of the law thus includes a system of setting maximum permitted prices, which in our view can positively reflect the continued sustainability of the financial state of the healthcare system. The maximum price model should be provided in addition to rational healthcare consumption, which will also be achieved by means of the proposed possibility of agreeing a lower price than the highest permitted price between the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance or other natural and legal persons engaged in public health activities, as well as by the providers of medicines, including the good supply of our market with medicines and the wide availability of medicines to all users. The proposed novelty also includes a safety guard for cases where, due to the highest possible price determined by the public agency, the product provider will not be interested in placing the product on our market at this price. In this way, exceptionally and for justified reasons of uninterrupted supply of certain medicinal products for the needs of patients, a higher price may be fixed for them than the maximum permitted price. In our Group of Members, we are confident that the amendment will not affect the rights of patients, so we will support it. However, healthcare providers are key actors who can and must, in accordance with legislation and ethical principles, ensure the well-being of our citizens and citizens. This means, after all, that in the system of original, interchangeable and comparable medicinal products, according to the specifics of the individual medical condition, medical personnel, as the primary responsibility for health, shall ensure that appropriate selection is made between the range of all available medicinal products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Member Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u143	Thank you very much. For a little while. I don't think the law has to be reintroduced, as was represented by all the speakers in front of me. Things are perfectly clear. It is a matter of regulating the maximum permitted prices of medicines and the law itself allows for greater transparency in the procurement of medicinal products. According to homework, there will also be more money left for the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, which is good. I think this law regulates its segment well enough to be confirmed. It might make sense to settle some minor matters, but let's leave this to the next term. In the next term, it will certainly be necessary to arrange for the easier or easier registration of new medicines that impede the entry of new medicines into the Slovenian market. I think that's actually all. There's no point in adding anything else. We'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u145	Please. Thank you so much for saying that. More or less everything has already been said today in the context of the amendment of the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Health. I'm going to say that at first sight everything really sounds nice and right. The government wants to change the way medicines are priced or to achieve lower consumption, as far as drug financing is concerned. It is therefore set the maximum price at which to sell the product in Slovenia. I will say that this "spar program" still leaves the door open to control, to control the system, which, according to the Lipa Group's assessment, is already taking place intransparency and also allows for abuse or abuse of the situation, which can be very well-funded. The Ministry of Health has repeatedly been alerted to the non-transparent use of public money available by the Committee for the Classification of Medicinal Products on Lists and also provided by the Regulation on the procedure for the classification of medicinal products on those lists. This Commission, which decides to spend between €350 million and €400 million annually, decides to introduce new medicines into closed-door lists with no official responsibility to anyone, even though it is a multi-million-dollar funding at annual level. But this marriage doesn't go into this area. I hope to say with certainty that this law does not constitute greater transparency, except for those who have the power to decide within a closed system. Several times it has proved within our system, the health system, that Slovenian patients are deprived of new medicines in the work called new medicines. We've heard about this before today. The analysis of the European Index of Health Services users last year, which ranked Slovenia from 12th place in 2006 to 21st place from 29 countries included in the analysis or measurement mentioned above, was last mentioned. Access to medicines is one of the hottest areas of Slovenian health care. Why - I believe we are rightly asking ourselves - why does he come to Slovenia one year or more later than, say, Austria? Slovenia is also a member of the European Union. On the other hand, because of the high price of medicines that are still available to us, the number of beneficiaries of the medicine is very limited. So, let's say it's happening, and I'll give you an example of 300 users or patients with the same chronic disease getting the same effective cure for only 30 patients. These are the numbers that come from practice, from society. These are the facts. I say the Ministry still has its eyes closed before this problem. Another example, which also speaks eloquently, is that the listing system is ineffective. The medicine that is useful in multiplesclerosis, in young people where the disease progresses very quickly and, say, in the case of other treatments, after so long and so long, the Health Council only approved December 2007. Today we are April 2008 and this medicine is still not listed and is still dependent on the financial capacity of the individual hospital, whether it will decide and the medicines with this medicine, which, according to the results from elsewhere, will only be effective in the cases I mentioned earlier. Today only two hospitals are treated with this medicine in Slovenia. If necessary or calculated, this medicine would require between 100 and 160 people in our country. But, as has already been said, the problems remain, and this law, which otherwise affects one segment, leaves the other open; and this segment, which Lip's assessment of the Group, is significantly more problematic. In the Lipa Group, we will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Bručan on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u147	Nice greeting, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary of State with co-workers. We will, of course, support the proposed amendment of the law in the SDS Group, so that there are no major problems on this side. This is the main objective of the proposed amendment of the law which is to comply with the acquis of the European Union, Council Directive 98/105-EC as regards the transparency of measures governing certain prices of medicinal products for human use and their inclusion in the field of national health insurance systems. This adoption of the law will allow, in accordance with the provisions of national rules under that Directive, and will reduce certain risks that exist for the exposure of Slovenia to the possible consequences of these official warnings from the European Commission. The current objective in Slovenia is to introduce and regulate the maximum permitted prices of medicines paid from public funds, there is no possibility of an agreement between debtors and payers to achieve lower prices. These lower prices can, of course, also be regulated under this proposal of the law by individual institutions and individual concessionaires for the part of the work that is intended to use medicines in the institutions themselves. This is very good, especially the point of this amendment, which will allow very large savings to the health system at this level, to the insurance undertaking and indirectly to the insurers, in my opinion. The drug law that we have adopted in this term of the National Assembly of the Year - I think - 2006 needs to be complemented in the part of determining the prices of medicines - this is clear - and the European Commission has issued this reminder. In this reminder, however, it also cited a possible discrepancy in the regulation of the price of medicinal products with the provisions of the abovementioned Directive. This occurred, of course, despite the fact that the Republic of Slovenia decided, in response to a reminder, that there was a clear discrepancy in price regulation by interpreting material and horizontal rules, but that there was still a need to develop further a model for regulating the prices of medicines and amending regulations. I would like to mention here today several times the rules on the prices of medicines adopted at the beginning of last year, which, together with the law adopted in 2006, contributed to a substantial reduction in the prices of medicines, especially generics, in the amount of data I have, in last year - not even throughout the year, but only by the end of last year - 47 million euros. This is more than half of the funds that have proved to be savings at the level of the health insurance company, even though some at the same time have of course tried to show with some addresses also in newspapers that the prices of medicines are flying into the sky. That's how such an interpretation was wrong. It is, of course, an important principle of primacy in this law, by which the current non-compliance with that Directive is eliminated as a major solution. The time limits within which the competent authority must fix the maximum price shall be determined and the time limit within which the application for an increase should be decided. And then, of course, the principle of economics. In addition to national regulated prices for all medicines financed from public funds, the law also provides for a major solution to be agreed upon for these medicinal products. It is undeniable that the principle of the transparency of the prices of medicinal products is important, so that the law obliges the institution of compulsory health insurance, that is, the Health Insurance Office, to keep records of the prices it has agreed on and at the beginning of their implementation. Finally: On the basis of the above, the SDS Group will support the proposal for amendments and additions to the Medicinal Products Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u148	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 23 4. 2008 We have two amendments to two articles. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the LDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello again. It is correct to present the amendment we tabled on behalf of the LDS. I would like to point out that the amendment to Article 5 is intended to introduce two amendments, two amendments relating to the third and fifth paragraphs. In the third paragraph, we would like to propose a change to the composition of the Committee on Medicinal Products, while in the fifth paragraph we are introducing a text which speaks of the fact that the procedures and criteria for determining the price of medicinal products must contain the evidence for public finances, and in particular the economic impact of financing medicinal products from public funds. Here we would like to point out once again that the system, the price management methodology is somehow within the competence of individual countries and here countries are also taking different paths. The amendments that we have tried to explain to the committee already have one substantive message. It is not just that we are trying to take into account price minimisation in price negotiations or in the process of determining the maximum price permit. We are not just following this objective, because we know that expenditure on medicines in individual countries is already a very high cost under public health expenditure. And the goals are how quickly these medicines will grow in individual years, the framework, how to minimise or minimise the burden of public medicines, because the prices of medicines, especially new medicines that appear on the market, are very high. And the purpose of our amendment is to draw attention to the fact that in Slovenia we want to achieve a 3% increase in expenditure on medicines, is the wrong approach or can be an integral part of a comprehensive approach. In our view, a comprehensive approach is one that takes account of the broader effects of the effects of the medicine, not only of its price. And here we would like to reiterate what has already been said today. The price of the product will somehow be considered by the institution when it negotiates with individual suppliers, while the effect of each medicinal product on the national economic effect may depend on the strategy, on the policy, on the national economic objectives. What do we mean by that? It is not necessary that the cheapest medicine or the cheaper medicine is the medicine that will have the best economic effects in the national economy. I'll use the case here, which was quoted here today. So one example of this is Tysabri, one of the medicines for multipleosclerosis, which has a double value in relation to the medicines currently used - at least so it is possible to read from an article published in Journal 10.4. But if the only criterion is the price, in this case it is to understand why this medicine is not listed, but if we follow the effect of this medicine, where the effect of the most commonly prescribed medicine is twice as high, then the question is, of course, whether it makes sense or not to put such a medicine on the list. For, if we just compare, let's say the cost, which means, say, a faster discharge from hospitalized treatment, of course, this means a significantly faster return, say, to the working environment, the family environment, a reduction or a reduction in the number of sick leave. In this case, of course, the effect may be completely different in relation if we only consider the price of this medicine. And today, various studies already show, even in Slovenia, studies show that our system - including the composition of the Commission - is the Commission for medicines that care for this area and in my opinion do its work very well, but this does not mean that this area cannot be improved and listened to to those who prove that there are still shortcomings, shortcomings in these procedures and that by introducing and introducing criteria, procedures, establishing individual procedures and criteria for certain prices - if this broader aspect is taken into account - savings could be significantly higher. And here is the intention of our amendment to write in this article that the Commission for Medicinal Products not only includes doctors and pharmacists, but also those involved in the health economy in the field of pharmaceuticals. And the second part of this amendment, once again, describes the content that speaks of procedures and criteria incorporating a broader dimension, not just the price aspect. And here comes the different role of individual actors. The Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance will, of course, be the one who will try to make the most of a bargain for the price. Of course, public interest in health cannot be only a price and the Ministry must play a key role here. Under this law, it has already been said today, the lack of how the ministry will play this broad role through the system of determining the maximum permitted price, which is essential for assessing the effects of a particular medicine, not only through the price aspect. Of course, it makes sense for us here to reach support for this amendment by both opposition and coalition Members, or to assess, through discussion, whether this text, which we have proposed in this amendment through this article, could be upgraded through this content, which is behind the amendment to this amendment. Of course, everything in order not only to minimize costs, but to optimise costs from different perspectives so that we can allow for a faster classification of medicines, better access to medicines in this way to ensure better health care for our citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. When we discussed this law and these articles, including those amendments on the Health Committee, the professional public - those involved in this work - also the Council of State and also the State Council had a very broad debate on these solutions on their committee. And I was very glad that both the professional public and the State Council had expressed a positive view of this law, seen these things as great progress. They also allow these savings to be saved, but this does not mean that access to medicines is impaired. The professional public has also expressed great satisfaction here, and I believe them. It was precisely in the area of the composition of this Commission that it was particularly pointed out that it was difficult for them to imagine that more than half of the members on the Commission would be members from economists or financial practitioners. Willingly or reluctantly, we know that every economist, everyone who deals with this, will look primarily at the cost aspect, the costs, the expenditure that comes from this title, of course. It is therefore right to look at the broader, interdisciplinary nature of the choice of medicines, and it is right that there is a particular area of medicine, of pharmaceuticals, which will focus on the effects and benefits of the patient. Then the price must follow. What does the optimal price mean? The optimal price means that you get as little money as possible for the highest quality price, and this law follows. This was very carefully explained by both the profession and all these debaters. And in this way, as we have now written in the law with these amendments, we will, of course, achieve this effect. Therefore, we cannot support this amendment, which has been proposed by the LDS Member Club, because it does not have the desired effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. He's a freshman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment shall in no way contribute to the content previously explained by the amendment's proposer. However, I agree with a great deal of this explanation, but this can, of course, be achieved in another way. These objectives can also be achieved by the Commission itself, as proposed here. As a result of this change, I do not think it is necessary for the Commission to introduce this amendment. Some of today's findings were very interesting, for example, about biological medicines, where there was no talk of, say, herceptin coming as the third in Europe in 2006, with this medicine to treat breast cancer and we were particularly commended by the European Union. At that time, we paid a considerable amount through the insurance company for the introduction of herceptin. Some other medicinal products in the field of biological medicinal products are relatively rapidly introduced into the system itself, while others are mostly unrealistic, it is true that many professional parties need to be scrutinized to see whether they are appropriate or not. If I just take the case of herceptin, we had to get a certain guarantee at the professional level before we introduced it, that this medicine is actually not, as it is called, in our jargon, cardiotoxic, it is said that it does not affect the heart muscle. This also applies to other medicines by talking about how some medicines, based on some of the recommendations of some companies, will lead quickly into the system itself, with payment from compulsory insurance, is not correct. It is necessary to have all the professional criteria, on the basis of the professional criteria, to introduce the product as quickly as possible for as many patients as possible for payment from the health insurance company. A few more words about comparators. I agree, as I said last time, that they are from this law at this stage - at this time, I will say, not a phase - at this time exempt comparable drugs as one option to come up with further savings in healthcare resources in the field of medicines with the cost of medicines. It's not a good time. But there will be a time that will lead to such a decision that we will also introduce comparable medicines into the legislation. This is what we wanted with the previous law, we withdrew that proposal because of arguments that do not withstand real criticism. The arguments which, while withdrawing that proposal and probably the current one, are in particular that insured persons should suffer in this situation and that it is not possible to have equal access to medicines for all insurers. That's not true. Comparable medicines do not reduce the availability of medicines but lead to savings. Here these societies in this case, which mainly fight for patients, stand for many other things, which, of course, has no direct connection with the patients themselves, and especially not with their benefits. Such cross-comparable medicinal products I think that in the future they will be subject to debate at a more appropriate time and will certainly be adopted into legislation alone. As far as the Commission is concerned and its transparency of action. At the time of my review of its operation, I must say that this transparency has been largely achieved and there have been virtually no more serious problems in this area at that time. Such "unfounded" opinions and statements, which sometimes occur here, would be good if someone sometimes documented them or gave them some real basis, and this has not yet happened for this committee. Another comment on 21st place in that ranking. When we were 12, we said that it depends on the data that comes in to the place where these data are then registered and evaluated. In some areas in 2007, I don't know, without the Ministry's knowledge, we've put some data there that has nothing to do with reality. And one of these is medicine.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, first of all, I'd like to clear the wrong line. Comrade Grill, it's not about changing the composition of the commission, it's about asking for more than half, but it's about at least half of the members of the commission being made up by experts. Which means that, of course, this article is also possible after a professional, on different salaries to evaluate and correct it in relation to what you say, of course, that this commission should be as interdisciplinary as possible. I agree with that. But if we bind our eyes with a way of saying that these effects are best known only by doctors and pharmacists, it seems to me that we may only be overestimating this interdisciplinaryness. Because now there are no profiles. All those on this committee, however, themselves, are of course assessing that they need this knowledge. It was said that the objectives could be achieved by the already proposed Commission. I think that we have already had enough messages in this mandate to make the changes large enough to reduce drug spending and rationalise. This means that we have significantly reduced the costs, i.e. for medicines, through certain measures of change. Which means that this proposal also does not necessarily have to be magnified and the only one acceptable, but can be different views, of course the different assessments of this text will improve. And here, my friend Bručan, we agree, of course. And our proposal goes in this direction to improve, which is already an integral part of the process in recent years, that is to say, the process of improvement, by further enhancing the inclusion of economic effects, which are wider than the price, in the context of product pricing processes and criteria. That's our proposal. And secondly, that the Commission should include economists, i.e. experts in the economic profession, who, for example, can, with all due respect for the members of the Commission, help or contribute from their point of view to the creation of these criteria. That, of course, is the point. We have written one, I would say, an arbitrary assessment - half; if we think that this is too much, then of course I expect that we can also talk about this and make a compromise, but not say that we want interdisciplinary, but at the same time that there is no interdisciplinary composition of this commission. Once again, I stress, with all due respect for the work of this Commission so far, with all due respect for the members of this Commission, but in my opinion and also in my opinion, I think that there are also various analyses that say that we can improve the system by certain measures not only by a few million euros, but by a few 10 million euros. And if that is the case, then we, as legislators, cannot look aside when certain professional institutions provide us with such assessments and positions. And if you can listen to these arguments and if you can complement them, of course, it is our initiative to accept this amendment and to upgrade it in the third reading by taking into account your concerns in the way that we are all discussing here in one direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u156	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 5 and the amendment. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the LDS Group. I find that no one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am concluding the debate on Article 6 and the amendment. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the amendment of the law on latent and invalidity insurance, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Ptræ. I give the floor to Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u157	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Of course, it would be correct that, first of all, the drafter of the law is equal to the fact that the Government or representatives of the Government are present when this law is being considered, but I will do my part. Well, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons first considered the law in question at its 35th regular session on 7.3. and then again at its 36th regular session on 4.4. A representative of the proposer with the first signed Mirano Potrče, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs Romana Tomc, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, Božo Strle. The Committee was informed of the written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspect and had no comments on the proposed text. The members of the Committee were also informed of the written opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the opinion of the Commission for Social, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons of the State Council. The Committee first considered the draft law, as it was said, at its 35th regular meeting on 7.3. The debate on the proposed amendment focused on the legal system's placement of the right in the legal framework. The government and some discussers felt that the solution should be sought or proposed in the Law on Rights from the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers. The debate also expressed the opposite view that the amendment to the Committee's proposal constitutes an appropriate solution which allows for an equal situation with other beneficiaries of widow's pensions or beneficiaries of widow's pension. In its opinion, the draft law was also supported by the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Persons with Disabilities of the State Council. The Committee came to a second reading of the draft law in the context of the reduced procedure. Taking into account the comments of the Government and the debate, the Committee decided on the proposal for an amendment of the Committee to Article 1 and did not adopt it. The vote was 8 for, 8 against. With the same outcome of the vote, the Committee has not adopted Article 1 and similarly does not conclude that the law in question is not a suitable basis for further consideration. In view of the fact that the Committee did not adopt that amendment or the proposal to rule that the bill was not suitable for further consideration, the Committee asked the Government to take a position on the Committee's amendment proposal. Pending the re-examination of the draft law to the proposed amendment, the Government has not identified or delivered a position. The Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities shall then meet at its 36th regular session on 4. 4. The proposal for a law has been re-examined. Without discussion, the Committee moved to a decision on the proposal for an amendment to the Committee and adopted it as its amendment. It also adopted Article 1. Thus amended Article 1 is also an integral part of the amended proposal for a law bearing this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mrs. Romana Tomc, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Messengers and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposed amendment to the law on pension and disability insurance is not appropriate from a legal point of view. With regard to the proposed amendment, it notes that the correct placement of the amendment would only be possible under the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers. The right to a pension is a fundamental human right. In the Republic of Slovenia, the basic public system is the provision of benefits for the age, disability and death system of compulsory pension and disability insurance. This means that only those who have been involved in insurance for a certain period can obtain rights and have fulfilled all other legal conditions. After his death, his family members may also gain rights after his death. The Slovenian pension system does not allow for the simultaneous receipt of two pensions. The right to receive part of a widow's pension is an exception. In the event of a spouse’s death, the surviving spouse is allowed to choose his pension, his spouse’s pension, or a combination of both. Such a choice and thus the receipt of a pension from two titles is justified by double contributions to the same pension scheme. The Republic of Slovenia has provided military insurers with suitable pensions by special law, which is the already mentioned law on rights from the pension and disability insurance of former military insurers, which also regulates rights for family members. Widows and widowers by military insurers shall be guaranteed the same basic rights as they would be subject to general rules. These are the rights to a deceased, an annual allowance, a protective allowance and an allowance for assistance and service. The means of ensuring these rights shall be drawn directly from the State budget and from unpaid contributions to the pension fund. If the Republic of Slovenia wished to grant a special right after receiving part of the widow's pension to widows after military insurers, it should also be regulated by a special law. Due to that Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance is not supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u160	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u161	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, it is clear that as co-signers we support the amendment of the law. The law regulates the issue of the payment of widow's pension. The question raised on the agenda of this national assembly and, of course, the bodies of the National Assembly several times. Several questions were also raised to ministers or ministers and ministers in this mandate. So it was clear that this would have to be settled once. The government hasn't responded to all these calls, so we've decided another way. Let me briefly describe, say, one example to make it more clear. The person was denied the right to a monthly payment of 15% of the amount of widow's pension per deceased husband. However, the reason for this refusal was that he was retired under the law on pension and invalidity insurance of former military insurers and not under the law on pension and disability insurance, as if this matter was very important, as if it were a personal account on which some money is deposited and then the blue state is noble and then arranges fine pensions. Of course, we know that the pension system is not regulated in such a way and that at a time when it is a matter of different alignments, it is considered that such a decision is discriminatory or that the law itself is discriminatory in this part, since a person’s right was denied only because the deceased was retired under another law. It's like a fourth or fifth pension pillar, not a basic matter. The Committee adopted an amendment covering or covering all possible combinations of age and disability pension recipients after Zpiz 1 and Zpiz 1 which means that it is necessary to regulate the recognition of work with widow's pensions to both those who have rights is said to be own and widowed, as well as to those who have the right to one pension recognised by Zpiz. And the right to a second pension after Zpiz. As it is said, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the law because of all that I have stated, but in particular because of the fact that we will eliminate this discrimination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Janez Petty Officer on behalf of the NSI Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u163	Nicely greeted! Dear colleagues, representatives of the government or representative of the Government! The New Slovenia Group will not support the bill submitted for the key two reasons. First, it is systematic to modify or supplement this legal substance with the law on pension and disability insurance, but it refers to former military insurers. In addition, there is a substantive reason why a group of individuals should also be granted a widow’s pension. Why only this category of persons of military insurance and why, therefore, other beneficiaries of state benefits, since it is, after all, a state benefit, also allow widow's pension under the principle of justice. In our country there are a number of other categories of persons who have also obtained the right under the law on pension and disability insurance and do not have a widow's pension - this is also happening. Finally, no contributions were paid to these insurers, and there is no logical and reasonable explanation as to why these beneficiaries or recipients of military insurance would also be entitled to a widow’s pension. That would have created an uneven position with the others. For these reasons, therefore, the Group of Members will not support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič you have the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u165	Thank you very much. With the proposal of this law, of which I am a co-signatory, we would like to eliminate the unequal treatment of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia on the issue of the recognition of the right to work on a widow's pension if it is more favourable for them than 70% of the pension of the pensioner, which was created on the basis of the amended Article 123 of the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, which in the same breath gave this right to all insured persons, no matter how high their pension income is, if that is more favourable for them. In the same breath, when we formed Article 123 so that everyone else got this right, we took away the rights of widows after former military insurers. It would be normal and moral for the Government itself, when it has done so, to come by itself with an amendment to the basic law on this issue, Article 3 of the Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Insurance of Former Military Insurers, due to the right to non-discriminatory treatment of citizens and citizens. However, as I stand here firmly for this time's ministry of work, at least for me, to have an immoral attitude towards the issues of former military insurers, often even contemptible, so this has not happened and therefore this discriminatory attitude has been established. Therefore, it is no harm if a group of Members and Members has decided, if nothing else, from a moral point of view, to correct this mistake. Such errors have unfortunately occurred too much in this time period. Not that it's part of the widow's pension exception - it's not true! Part of a widow's pension after the last amendment of Article 123 of the pension and disability insurance is the right of any insured person, if this is more favourable to him than 70% of the pension after the pensioner. And it would be correct for the representative of the Government to interpret this correctly. In any case, this represents such a small additional financial means that it is simply spiritistic for the Government to oppose it. It is true that I myself have advocated entering Article 3 of the Law on the Rights of the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers, but the amendment of the Committee has also been properly done in Article 123 and is perfectly legally and systematically acceptable for us to do so through this complementary proposal of the law. I will certainly support this bill, and I hope that, if nothing else, from a moral point of view to all citizens and citizens, my fellow Members will do the same. In any case, I firmly believe that the moral level of the next government will be much higher so that such matters will be resolved in the first laws. The basic principle of government and state authorities is to ensure equal treatment of citizens before laws. He also warned the President of the Republic this morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The word has magic. The Director, on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u167	Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As co-signers of the proposed amendment to Article 123 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, we will also fully support this well-intentioned amendment of the DeSUS legislation at this stage of the consideration of the law. We are convinced that the anomaly of the double-diverse regime concerning the right to widow's pension or its work under a military insured under general and special law governing this matter, which causes an unjustified distinction and unequal treatment of pensioners due to the existing dictatorship of its subsequent interpretation of the general law article, is necessary. It is quite clear that for the existing dictatorship of that article, which is interpreted by law by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, there will be a material reduction of all those pensions, widows by military insurers who would like to enforce a 15% difference in the amount of pension which they are subject to the general rule and which other widows may enforce in accordance with the law. Of course, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance itself sees no sense and no need to justify such discrimination, but legal provisions must be implemented such as, and as long as they apply, the institution can in fact do nothing. Given that there are no reasonable and appropriate legal grounds, and even less understandable reasons for such a distinction between widowers under general and special law, denial of equality and different treatment of widowers after former or deceased insured persons is unacceptable to the rule of law and raises the question of the constitutional judgment that we are not talking about ethical views on these issues. It is also interesting to compare the determination of the legal system's inadequacy of the proposed amendments by the Government with the positive opinion of our Legislative and Legal Service on the compatibility of the proposed amendment of the law with the legislative system and with the legislative technical aspect. The issue of which law should be introduced with the proposed amendment, which will eliminate the legal and actual unequal treatment and the unjustifiable disadvantage of a particular group of regional beneficiaries, is not considered by our assessment. It is also, as a consequence, more correctly carried out and it is appropriate to amend Article 123 of the General Pension Law, which is the general basis for the exercise of the right to this type of pension, in particular since the law on pension and disability benefits of former military insured persons after the death of the beneficiary does not solve this issue in the same way as the general rule. In the DeSUS Group, we stand in a firm position that there is an urgent need to eliminate double criteria that result in an unjustified distinction between widows who wish to enforce this part of the widow's pension after a military insured relative to those who are recognised by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act all the time. The government’s rejection would have maintained criticism if widows were given their pension under the law on military insured, but no, they received it under another law. And if the Government has maintained a government thought, which the Government has never realized that this problem should be resolved in a special law, but it has not done so, then in such a case, widows would be granted rights under two laws, which is pointless and therefore our proposal is better, more appropriate, "drinking water" also from a legal point of view and should therefore be resolved. But there is another issue: that of the law that dealt with the issue of retired soldiers in the former country, there is no longer, and that of the treasury is no longer. We have inherited only widows who are innocent and who are retired under our law, and then we have invented that from this cash register, by which someone is insured, we will recognize part of the widow’s pension of deceased spouses, without having to say then, if they were insured elsewhere, they will get nothing from the widow. Which, from the point of view of equality before the same law that saved this for one another and not for the other, is totally unacceptable. From this point of view, of course, this law needs to be supported, and the Government would have its own face to the point only if, at the time of discussion, it introduced a fast-track law, thus a reduced procedure with a view to resolving this matter in a special law, but it has not done so, nor do I believe that it intends to do so, so it is better to accept it with this law today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The bill amending the Pension and Disability Insurance Act makes sense and, of course, as co-proposers, we want these few 100 military widows who receive pensions from military insurers to obtain the same rights as the other widows. That's what this is all about. It is the principle of equality, it is the right to equality before the law, and I do not think there should be anyone in this Chamber today who opposes it. I am pleased that the government's morals are also being pointed out by government Members. This is something of a kind that is happening now in this last quarter of this term. It's also true that sometimes you say "mea culpa" and you mess with the ashes a little bit and you see that they're mistakes. But I don't really understand the Government's point of view when it says that this is not properly and systematically regulated, so it suggests to the National Assembly that it does not accept this amendment to the law. Look, it's 44,000 euros a month or half a million, about half a million euros a year. That's a negligible number if we look at where we're throwing all the money and who we're really not sorry about. We don't feel sorry for the collaborators, we don't feel sorry for the Roman Catholic Church, we don't feel sorry for the guns and guns that we'll never need, and we don't feel sorry for the fact that they split into private pockets and cover them. Here we want to be principled, principled; for 1617 widows, we will "split". Half the widows after military pensions are so much, according to our information, respected Mr Žnidaršič. It is a fundamental principle, a right before the law and a right before equality, including the constitutional norm and the first-signed Miran Potrč, which essentially provided a meaningful supplement to this law, so that I see no reason to take account of the decision of the committee which did not take the decision in order to make the law fit for further consideration. This is also, according to the Chairman of the Committee, who has a second opinion, thank God, unacceptable. And I would like to ask for a little principle and principle today, when we vote on this law, that you will not cause new injustices that you regularly cause in such meaningless votes as you have written on your reminders.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u171	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues once again. I hope, indeed, that you will attach to the law that we have drawn up with united forces, not only in the opposition, but also with the co-signature of representatives of the two coalition parties. I will try very briefly and very simplisticly to explain what a change this is. It's about giving or, if you want, extending the right to 15% of pension payments, including those women, those widows who are, I'll probably say not by their own fault, widows of former military commitments. This is what the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a respected colleague and colleague who speaks about equality before the law, which speaks or prohibits all discrimination. And what the government did in 2005 was exactly what it did: from one system it excluded the widows of former soldiers and deprived them of up to 15% of their pension payments. It is only a maximum of 15% - under certain conditions of course. That is, if you want in other words, respected colleagues and colleagues, some social adjustment. A social correction for those widows who have a miserablely low pension, I'm sorry for using that term. Once again, it is not a new right to a pension, but it is only a right to pay a 15% pension. If the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs on the home work body referred, when we first considered the law, to the system law, I will say, the inadequate regulation we are proposing, then we see very quickly when we look at the whole system, that this is not the case and that this has also been challenged on the home labour body by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. And then the ministry - Madam Secretary of State was at the meeting at the time, came up with a new idea that the law might not be well-adopted because the government had not examined the financial implications in this case. And Mrs Romana Tomc goes on to say, "so that once the government wants to define the financial implications, we will also do so on our side if the committee supports this proposal." Then, Mr President, Mr Brenčič, reminded her once again and asked that the members of the committee would also like to receive the opinion of the Government on the financial implications and, on the other hand, on the amendment adopted on the home labour body. The amendment is very clear. The amendment also removes the doubts raised at the outset by the distinguished Madam State Secretary on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. But we didn't get neither! Today is a meeting of the National Assembly, a meeting of the National Assembly, where we decide whether we will equalize and grant this right to, once again, a maximum of 15% of pension payments to widows who are insured or widowed by former military debtors. Today we decide on this, and by the Minister or Madam Secretary of State, we have heard at the outset once again a summary of the general findings made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the basic proposal of the law. I say it's a shame. It is a shame for the government coalition to hope in such a way to share people and also to share the right, I say again, of the right to social correction, according to my assessment. If anyone hopes to say out loud today in this country that pensions are high, if he hopes to claim that pensions grow according to wage increases - then something is honestly wrong with him. Data and life are pointing in a different direction. I'm sorry. Once again, I ask you, my fellow Members and colleagues, to support a bill that is well-intentioned and which, I believe, will not deprive anyone in our country, but will give a right which, after all, is also a constitutional right that all citizens and citizens before the laws of our country are equal and equal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Homan has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u173	Dear colleagues. Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Government. We will not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that the proposed amendment to the law on pension and disability insurance from a legal point of view is inadequate. With regard to the proposed amendment, it is noted that the correct placement of the amendment would only be possible in the Law on the Rights of the Pension and Disability Insurance of Former Military Insurers, the debtors, since the right to a widower's pension after a widower or widower after a military insurer is recognised under this law. A reasonable arrangement within a suitable legal framework is based on the definition of the circle of beneficiaries and on the determination of the rights recognised by the individual rules to certain categories of persons. The Republic of Slovenia has provided military insurers with suitable pensions under special law. This law also regulates all other rights arising from the right to a pension. Widows or widowers after deceased military prisoners acquire the right to a widow's pension and all other rights to which widows and widowers are entitled under the general rules. Although both laws regulate and define the same rights from pension and disability insurance, the range of insured persons according to law differs as contributions to pension and disability insurance for military debtors were paid to a special, separate fund in Belgrade. The introduction of the right to a widow's pension in 2000 has met the requirement to grant a greater right to the beneficiary, which would otherwise, by means of a transitional payment contribution for at least two rights, be entitled to both rights - own and widow's, which is not possible in accordance with the pension rules. The right to a widow's pension of military insurers shall be fully guaranteed from the State budget and not as other rights under the general rules guaranteed in full against the contributions paid by active insurers and distributed within the single system on the basis of reciprocity and solidarity and an intergenerational agreement. In 2005, and the current government, by proposing amendments to pension regulations, resolved the range of potential beneficiaries and raised the level of the recipient of the right to work on a widow's pension to eliminate the property price for recognised rights. We will not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I expected and hoped that, after all the discussions that we have had for at least two years within the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, today the complete unity would be that some 100 people affected by the information I have in writing, and perhaps even 100 citizens of Slovenia, pensioning after former military insurers, would be granted the same rights as all other insured or nationals and citizens of Slovenia. This is the right to a widow's pension of up to 15% to an average pension, which at this time is slightly less than €80 per month and throughout the year, if indeed there are 100, slightly less than €8,000 and perhaps €75,000 per year. This is, ladies and gentlemen, by those who object to this law, the problem that will make this country bankrupt. You rely on the system, let's think about people. Is it unacceptable for you to think about people when it is not about people you would like to give them some special rights? I'm not going to be irritating you and myself, talking about how you propose individual laws in order to get sympathy in public. Surely, where there are more voters and voters, it is more worth proposing a law. There are only a hundred or maybe more of them, but honest citizens and citizens of Slovenia, who are the same as all of those or all of those who have the right to widow's pension, have paid into the Slovenian pension fund and would have had the right to this widow's pension, and the change in this option has occurred in a way that was not known in this National Assembly, except perhaps except for the exception. In fact, by amending Article 123, which included an explicit reference to the system law in its provision. At the time, no one knew that the reference to a system law would mean that he could not obtain the right of those who received the pension and disability insurance of military pensioners under the law. Everything else today, ladies and gentlemen, is a fat move, is an unacceptable relationship that individual parliamentary groups and parties have towards the work of Slovenian citizens and citizens who have done the same fair work and paid into the fund, and have made this 'great mistake' - in narrations a mistake - in your opinion, to distinguish people from being insured or that they were women, and are now insured by former military insurers. Are we not able to forget after 20 years of independent Slovenia about citizens and citizens who are now 80 or less years old and who were long retired in 1990 and were no enemies of independent and independent Slovenia to deny them this right? That paragraph 123 is controversial, we have only found out when we asked the mother's working body at the meeting, but where is the reason for these rights to be given, and the representatives of the Government and the ZPIZ have told us that the reason in Article 123 is that this right is possible only if it is based on a system law. And then we agreed on changes, then we tried to betray everything, and there are not many who are ready to accept these changes. We were confident at some point that the government would understand. We have reached a substantive solution with the help of a parent working body, which is not at issue in any way, and also the Legal and Legislative Service has no dispute over the proposed solution. We have provided you with a notice that this is not a material problem, as the Government has specifically said in its views, so [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It's just the mood or the hatred of a small group of people. [[...]] Please, on their behalf, do not let this happen and support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u176	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, which is at 16.50. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 4:50 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u177	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. It used to be a note, please. Is it working now, Mr. Pache? Okay? Thank you. We continue with the 21st item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads - an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendments to Article 1, they are three amendments. First, under number 1 of the amendment of the Zares Group. Mr. Lakhovnik, please! On behalf of the European Parliament, we will just open the application list on behalf of the Group of Members. [[...]] Explanation. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. The first amendment, which speaks of the need for a fairer toll burden on all those who are even more damaging to the motorway network, is certainly the one that needs to be supported if we are to move closer to a more realistic toll system than we have today and the one we want to introduce or want to introduce through the admission of vignettes. But it is surprising that, as we are warning today, I think that almost all day now, the extent to which freight vehicles are causing damage, how many problems they cause in the flow of traffic, the Government today takes a decision on the price of services on the motorway network by adding even more discharges or more reliefs for freight vehicles. I can really ask myself where all this activity is going when we give leave to those who cause the most burden, the most damage and also cause and contribute to far-reaching transport emissions, of course freight traffic. And one of the reasons why this first amendment needs to be adopted is that, in fact, in the law, we write down what prices can be the lowest in this area and, of course, the Government does not have the opportunity to forgive freight traffic as easily as it is at this point. And of course I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Lakhovnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members. We tabled this amendment because the tolling system is unfair. It is unfair to all owners of passenger vehicles who pay substantially too much, depending on how much freight vehicles they pay. I have already mentioned today that on Slovenian roads it drives a million 250 000 trucks a year, but only 40% of all tolls are collected from trucks, 60% are still contributed by drivers of passenger vehicles. If the toll for freight vehicles, including 90% of foreign freight vehicles subsidised by Slovenian taxpayers, were to increase to 32 cents, as we suggest, they would only collect tolls from freight vehicles, including, once again, 90% of foreign carriers, 350 million euros. This is more than 50% more than we are now collecting from passenger cars and trucks together. This means that, theoretically, personal vehicles could be vignettes even for free and the financial system would be significantly more sustainable than it is now. But basically, we believe that if we accepted our amendment, we could significantly reduce annual vignettes. Even though trucks would pay only as much in Slovenia as in Austria, they would not nearly compensate for the damage they cause on Slovenian highways. The cargo vehicle causes tens of thousands more damage on the road than the passenger vehicle. And this rehabilitation of the motorway network is carried out by Slovenian taxpayers and, in the excessive part, also by drivers of passenger vehicles who pay more than they should according to freight vehicles. Not to mention that, in fact, all those who are being transported by motorways on a daily basis, we can see that, in fact, they are completely overwhelmed by foreign carriers, that traffic is already being hampered and that it is growing and that this measure that we are proposing is essentially how freight transport, in particular foreign freight transit transport, is to be diverted to railways. This is how we expect our amendment to be supported. Let me remind you in the coalition that the DARS has about EUR 3 billion in liabilities, and in this way, as we suggest, the financing of the motorway network could be sustainable. While most of this funding would be taken over by truck drivers, where I said 90% were foreign carriers in one way or another.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. It's bad luck. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. This brief analytical argument in support of the amendment is, of course, one side of the story, the other side of the story is that the rules in force in Europe must be respected. Of course, the intention and the long-term intention of the amendment is correct, but the correct charging of the costs incurred by freight vehicles and the impacts, environmental damage and energy they consume must be addressed and, of course, its benefits and consequences, financial and other, must also be assessed in accordance with the European directives, which say that there is no need to impose the euro on trucks up to the euro of five environmental damage. In this context, to charge not only on the basis of the weight of the cargo vehicles, the total mass, but also mainly on the quality and quality of the propulsion aggregates of these cargo vehicles or the environmental damage caused by them. We know that the greatest damage is caused by those trucks coming from remote countries with the worst and most outdated vehicles. The impact on the transit and benefits of the economy for these transport corridors is also one of the circumstances. These things need to be weighed down and gradually enforced. Amendment of the Law on Public Roads - introduction after 14 years of tolling in the way of unhindered driving and reduced driving costs, shorter driving costs, higher average speed, lower environmental burdens - due to the current tolling system, which is now being eliminated, will allow the introduction of satellite tolling for freight vehicles in the following year to apply some of these elements and also to charge some of these elements into the tolling system. Mainly for that part of the transport [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , this is heavy international transport, for which Slovenia has the highest percentage, which places the most burden on Slovenian roads. [[...]] Slovenia has almost 85% of heavy cargo traffic in transit, and in this work it is particularly necessary to collect and absorb the toll system, which I think will be applied in this way in the middle of the following year. We will not support this amendment in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party for the above reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič, on behalf of the delegation? [[You can't do this anymore.]] In your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Štebe explained the reasons for the vote in fact for this amendment. I agree with him that road traffic in Slovenia, as far as these large trucks are concerned, is tremendously increased and in relation to or compared to other countries, is much bigger than elsewhere. And that's why I think it makes sense to support this amendment. What Europe says and lays down rules, it is necessary to know that Europe lays down rules that France, England, does not usually adhere to, but not Italy, but Germany always finds one of its versions. That is why I think that, although Mr Stebe said he would not support this amendment, I think it makes sense that the amendment should be supported, because his argument went for it. And we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, for 25, for 40. [[It was voted for by 25.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the second amendment to the 1st Article of the Group of Social Democrats. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. With the amendment, we want to equalise the tolling of freight vehicles and passenger vehicles. In fact, freight vehicles will not be burdened by tolling on rails, on fast roads which then connect to the toll system after this proposal. Above all, we want to make it possible that at least part of the problem that will arise because the system of vignettes will be unfair, especially to those environments that do not have motorways, and all those drivers and drivers who will come to the city centres will be additionally burdened with at least 35 euros when they go either to the hospital or to school or to work. And there's a lot of these fast roads in the border area, where it's actually the only road you can get to either neighbouring Italy or work in an area connected by this fast road. So it is by no means all the fast road in Slovenia, as it was possible to understand in some controversy about this amendment, but we want to to toll only those roads which the applicant intends to to to toll for freight vehicles. And the same should apply to personal ones. In fact, this would eliminate the biggest difference in the practice of paying the toll by those who use the highways, but not of those who do not have the highway to the greatest extent and who will cover the outages and subsidies given by the applicant to those who are most destroyed by roads that are most used by the road body and which also cause the most emissions. So this amendment will certainly also help to make urban centres less burdened by traffic, not only because of the access of the surrounding settlements, but also because of the functioning of the city as such, it is extremely important and let all these users not be burdened with 35 euro vignettes for unnecessary reasons, because this will help us greatly to make the real road system more user-friendly than if we toll all roads and fast roads and road links to to the toll stations. Of course we'll support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Pache, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u188	Therefore, it is also the view of the Lipa Group that the status quo should be maintained. In other words, according to our firm belief, both the legislative branch and the executive branch of power, namely, the Government and Parliament, should not allow for the new taxation or financial burden of individuals living within a certain city, but should be the city of Maribor, which today has been repeatedly said to carry out its transit day-to-day migration through a two-story bridge. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I believe, through this means that there will be the necessary financial means, but in other words, ladies and gentlemen, this means that the circular route around Ljubljana will be blamed, following a new bill, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or, in the case of the city of Maribor, that the journey across the two-story bridge will require the vehicle to be equipped with a so-called sticker. That's just not right. If financial resources are needed to fill the gap under this law, which we have all come to realize is the case, then they should be acquired through the so-called interstate transit transport. By no means should we agree to the theory of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the journey from destination A to destination B within a particular town using a curb or other road will be subject to an application for the affixing of an individual vehicle with the name of the vineyard. This is wrong and from this address in the Lipa Group we support the proposal of the proposers for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, in his own name. Here you go. I'll open the application list. I can see more hands. Check-in is on. All I would ask is that we really discuss the proposed amendment, because the general debate was in the morning. The explanation of vote is actually. Mr. Milan Friday, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Vice President. So, I support this amendment myself. I believe that it is reasonable, appropriate and most illustrative is what we said earlier in the morning debate. So in this law there are so many stupidities and so many problems and inanimate solutions that the applicant probably did not judge on the ground at all, he did not realize them, and one of these is true, so in the middle of the city - over Drava you want to come to Maribor, but one of the bridges is this two-storey bridge and nation, the drivers will have to avoid this bridge because they are in the position of the road that demands payment. And because of this, it has been said earlier that marriage is unconsistency, brings some stupid consequences, and the case, as described now, is one of these solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u191	Mr. Mag. The damage, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. Motorways and fast roads are built to be used and to unload the rest of the road network. In view of the very cost-effective offer of road and fast roads, €55 and €35 for a half-year period, it is certainly beneficial and fair to start tolling, to pay for the use of motorways for the entire motorway network. Not like this. We're talking about cars and motors. A system is being introduced for freight vehicles, a new system will be introduced next year. This isn't about this law. Therefore, it is appropriate to retain, introduce a more fair toll system for passenger cars on the entire motorway network or on all fast roads in the Republic of Slovenia. I will therefore also vote in favour of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Bostian Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Madam President. First, I would like to thank the representatives of the Government, who were probably at lunch today and visiting the National Assembly, for their constructive cooperation and for all the answers that we have put in place to deal with the law. Furthermore, I would like to say that we will gladly support the amendment to Article 1 as has already been said in the Lipa Group. However, it was supported because I feel that anyone claims that the whole highway system in the Republic of Slovenia has to be paid for the use of the bypasses, that he simply does not know what he is saying. Someone who transports 600 metres of bypass daily in Maribor across a two-storey bridge will have to pay 35 euros per half year or 55 euros per year - I think it's stupid. We use these vehicles to get rid of traffic from the city center, not to hit people in the pocket. And here is also this lie that this government uses in explanation to make the use of the road system in cities cheaper. He won't. Those who have not yet had to pay will now have to pay and use or round up all motor vehicles in the Republic of Slovenia. And the one who says thank God he'll be ashamed. That's not true! That's not true, thank God! Yeah, I'm sorry, that's right. And the attitude toward this law is shown by the Government today, who is sitting here for lunch, visiting, and having little look, probably, at the National Assembly, but has said nothing and has not answered any questions that have been asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar has the floor. You raised your first hand, but you didn't press. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u196	I thought I pressed it, but maybe I didn't. I'm sorry. I'll support this amendment. At first, it seemed to me in this illogical, otherwise completely flawed law, which we are now introducing or introducing, seemed pointless to me, but I would say it made sense. In addition, it is necessary to say that, for example, the Ljubljana Motorway System is at the same time part of the motorway system and the Ljubljana Transportation System and, at the same time, Ljubljana was the only municipality that co-financed the construction of this transport system, the Eastern Railway. I wonder if the ministry or Dars will pay, so if the vineyard road will be that if you return to Ljubljana the money that has been invested in this highway for its citizens and citizens. And I am sure that you will do this, otherwise, with all the injustices and illogicalness that you are introducing today, another additional injustice and illogicality, and with all the blows that Ljubljana is experiencing in this House, another additional blow nonetheless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, for 23, for 41. [[It was voted for by 23.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the third amendment to Article 1 of the coalition groups. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Weber. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. We will not support the amendment for a simple reason because it shows the great duplicity of the ruling coalition when we talk about what the toll should be and what it should not be. See, the previous text states that for motor vehicles whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 3,500 kilograms or a group of vehicles whose maximum permissible mass does not exceed 4,250 kilograms, toll shall be paid for the use of toll roads for a certain period of time. Here, however, this amendment amends that for vehicles not exceeding 3,500 kilograms, irrespective of the maximum permissible mass of the trailer, tolls for a certain period of time or with vignettes. I believe that this actually opens up the tolling system for freight vehicles, which would otherwise be more burdensome after this proposal and some vehicles that will have a total mass of over 3,500 kilograms due to their trailer, will still be able to drive by means of vignettes rather than tolling, for example, under the electronic tolling system to be introduced for freight transport. So, the coalition allows itself at the same time, when it talks about how everything is nice and right with vignettes, to change this tolling system again into an account of major road damage and, of course, at the expense of poorer road safety. For surely a vehicle at the border of 3,500 kilograms will be loaded with its trailer so that it can carry more mass through the system of winches, not through an electronic toll system, which is supposed to be tolled according to the distance transported and according to the mass and load caused by such a vehicle on the road. In short, a truly double-minded approach to this law with this amendment. We will not support him in any way in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u199	Thank you very much. In your own name, Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will personally support this amendment, given that we also have the Road Safety Act, which defines what it can and how much it can drive either a passenger vehicle or an engine, or a freight vehicle up to 3,500 kilograms. The Road Safety Act states exactly how much, for example, a passenger vehicle that weighs 1,100 kilograms, what a trailer can drive with it, and I hope that a colleague who has previously discussed these provisions of the Road Safety Act knows.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I'm opening the application. Mr. Mag. It's bad luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. In addition to the Road Traffic Safety Act, which states that a towing vehicle must not carry more than the basic mass of a towing vehicle, it is also very important here that the system is visible and easily identifiable as to what is allowed and what is the limit. In fact, the towing vehicle shall bear in the documents the total mass. The identification of the different mass of the towing work, and the work behind this vehicle, however, is changing. And the matter would be very complicated and difficult to identify by supervisors when the total mass for the cargo vehicle border is exceeded or not. I think that the system must be as simple as possible in terms of favourable prices, and that is why it is also easily manageable and uncomplicated. Then it is very evident when the border is exceeded for trucks and when it is not. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u204	I would like to explain once again, on my behalf, that we are discussing the Law on Public Roads and the introduction of vignettes or the introduction of two separate tolling modes, separately for freight transport, by means of an electronic toll system and a vignette system for vehicles up to 3,500 kg. The text so far clearly stated where that limit should not exceed the mass of the trailer so that you can still pay the toll as a vignette. And this provision, which you are introducing with the amendment, is significantly more loose than what is now enshrined in the law. And it allows someone who will have 1,000 kg or even more - I agree - given the permissible mass that is recorded in the traffic permit, to drag a trailer and thereby load the road significantly more. I am sure that some vehicle will try this way or the driver will try to find that niche to avoid electronic tolling and will prove that this mass is still somewhere within the limits. But no one will control it because, as you say, it will be a simplification in control and will not go weighing that mass. So it's about allowing fraud, and there's no way I can support such solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I will not support the amendment, but I expect it to be supported. I expected to be on my turn first, and I would ask my colleagues who wrote this amendment to explain to us what a one-way and two-track vehicle means, given that I do not think that this term is appropriate for the amendment then to be corrected in the next reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u207	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 12. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to an amendment to Article 2 – coalition groups. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 47 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to an amendment to Article 2 of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Zmajgo Jelinčič has the floor of nobility.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am withdrawing the oral amendment to this amendment, so that we do not vote on the oral amendment, but only on the one mentioned in this review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Then this amendment would be read as follows: Vinjeta must contain the text of the Republic of Slovenia brand, "I feel Slovenia". Mr. Pece - in his own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u210	Thank you very much, on behalf of the Group of Members. So in the context of the Lipa Group we would be happy to accept the amendment if the addition were in the Slovenian language. Of course, in the Lipa Group, we are not embarrassed to use names or, rather, our native language. However, I estimate that this type of support should not go to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or to seek support for government proposals, i.e. "I feel Slovenia", within the framework of legislation. I am firmly convinced that if an amendment, if it were to carry a Slovenian language in its contents, would, of course, be acceptable, it would be proud of us. So proud of us who use Slovenian roads, and proud of us who built these roads, and not least proud of us who, of course, also pay for these roads. As it is written, in a foreign language, I stress: in a foreign language, he will not receive support from the Lip Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We're voting. There were 72 votes in favour, with 72 votes in favour, 6 against 59. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 59.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? No one wants to. I conclude the third hearing and give the representative of the Government a word. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u212	Thank you very much. As the third amendment to Article 1 and the first amendment to Article 2 were adopted, there was consequently a disagreement with the text of Article 1 and Article 2. The resulting non-compliance in the text of the law will be eliminated by the harmonisation amendment proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u213	Thank you very much. By saying this, I note that the Government is likely to draw up a harmonisation amendment by tomorrow and I will be informed and decided upon the conclusion of the vote at tomorrow's meeting. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Procedure within the framework of the formal procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to Article 89 of the SDS, NSI and SLS. We're voting. 69 Members and Members voted in favour of 50 votes against 10. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I give the floor to the drafter of the law if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u214	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third consideration of the draft law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There were 75 votes in favour, with 75 votes in favour, 51 against 21. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the draft law on Friday 25 April 2008, following the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the adoption of the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Medicinal Products after a reduced procedure. We'll proceed with the second reading. This is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 5. We're voting. There were 74 votes in favour and 74 votes in favour, 21 against 44. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. There were 73 votes in favour, with 73 votes in favour, 21 against 46. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded the vote on the amendments and thus conclude the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment to the amended second reading bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance following a reduced procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Miran Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats will vote in order to enable citizens and citizens of Slovenia, beneficiaries of the pension and disability insurance of the Republic of Slovenia to have the same rights as other citizens and citizens. That's the minimum we can do. I'm expecting some more understanding at the last minute, and that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Gnyardsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Government. In any case, I appeal to those present to support this law for two reasons. First of all, because it does not represent a financial asset, it is a symbolic asset. Secondly, in order to eliminate the inequality of insured persons under the same law on invalidity and pension insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. And I think it's a discriminatory provision that now makes it impossible for a very small number of widows after military insurers to realize that little piece of pension under the law that's paid under the same law as everyone else who gets it. I think that this intention, this proposal for a law is acceptable, especially in the fact that the Government has not resolved this matter in three and a half years, according to the special law, which today would have said otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I'm opening a list to explain my voice on my own behalf. It was. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As cosigners of this law, of course, we will uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Allow me, Mr President, to speak on behalf of the Lip Group of Members, who is also co-signatory to the proposed law. It is simply a matter of the fact that in 2005 this government created an unequal situation in our society between recipients and beneficiaries of a widow's pension by amending the law on pension and disability insurance. And this error or this discriminatoryness caused by the Government is eliminated by the law we are proposing. I must say that the law is not disputed from a systemic point of view, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia tried to warn, which was then denied by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In fact, the law would have so minimal financial implications for our country that it is shameful for all those who press the button against this bill. I ask you once again on behalf of the applicants and on behalf of the Lip Group of Ambassadors to support the law. Last but not least, I have already said today, for social adjustment to those beneficiaries of the widow's pension, especially widows, it is said that beneficiaries who have a pension so low that they deserve this 15% of the average pension that they would, I believe, improve the social situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Everyone else in their own name. I regret, however, that my word has not been fulfilled. Here you go, Mr. Aleš Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u224	Dear President! I speak on my own behalf, of course on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club, which we also co-signed this law; a law which, of course, should have been passed long ago or solved by widows who are insured under another law. We don't think it matters what law someone's insured under. This could now be regulated by the adoption of this bill and, of course, I appeal to all fellow Members and fellow Members, it is that beautiful benevolent human move, and I do not think it will cause any serious trauma to anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I will support the bill mainly on those ethical issues. Do I have the right to work or knowingly make a distinction between citizens or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and to treat them unevenly? If we, as amended by Article 123, gave the right to the work of the widow's pension to all Slovenian pensioners, so to speak, to the beneficiaries of the rights under the law, we are in the written - if it is more favourable for them - article 123, and this right was denied to some Slovenian citizens, widows after former military insurers. A large number of them benefited from 70% of the pension of their deceased spouse, if these were mainly senior officers or employees, and in a small part their income levels were so small that they were not paid. More or less the State budget provides for this than for a number of additional rights under Article 230 of the Law and also for this. But the order of magnitude is below 100,000 euros a year, and I have no moral image to deny them that right. These are our citizens who are and pay all their obligations to this country and will continue to do so. And that is why I also encourage my fellow Members of the Group to follow me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I am reopening my application that there will be no mistake, not on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Mag. A little something, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u228	Thank you so much for saying that. It is the exercise of the rights of those persons who have received not direct pensions after a specific provision, but special benefits. This is an exception and on the basis of this, this special exception, a widow's pension would now be upgraded - a special right. In our country we have a number of categories of persons, our citizens, who are much more entitled to be in the name of justice, equality and the avoidance of discrimination, so that they are entitled to a widow's pension. Yes, even to a widow's pension for which they are not entitled. These are the basics and grounds for why our beliefs and my beliefs are correct. Why would military insurers from the previous system be particularly stimulated?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u230	I will vote for this law. Especially because I had many conversations with widows after former military insurers who were at the time when their deceased husbands were still working and even after they retired, worked and were insured through our pension institution. And I don't think this is really going to work, as my colleague has already said, in fact for the amount of resources needed to do so, but it is mainly a fundamental equality between all citizens and citizens in this country. The excuses we hear that military insurers paid their pension in Belgrade - the first thing is, they are not entirely true, because for many years they paid pension insurance in Slovenia and only later, for a short time, in Belgrade. And secondly, if we compare widows who have decided to take their pension after their deceased spouse because of the more favourable result, it is illogical that even a widow's pension can be paid after a former military insurer, one who, like any other widower or widower, wants to enforce the right to 15% of the widow's allowance, and those who do not have that right. So not only are there differences between widows who could benefit from the widow's allowance after a deceased husband, but there are even differences between widows after military insurance and here I think this is a fundamental injustice that I think should be corrected today and I suggest it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u231	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 37. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 37.]] I understand that the law has not been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts in the framework of the ordinary procedure. Can I have your attention, please? We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I'm informing you that I haven't been warned by the Legal and Legal Service or the Government. [[...]] [[It's a little difficult to hold a meeting, I'll wait for the debate to pass.]] Thank you. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 12. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Subsidisation of Diagnostic Diet in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, for 46, against no one [[..]] [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on architectural and engineering activities in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for the Act on Architecture and Engineering is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, for 46, for 19. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Environment and Space as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Servants in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Servants is suitable for further "processing". If I've put you in a bit of a good mood, I'm happy, but it's the right treatment. Thank you. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 46 to 20. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice for a second reading as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Penal Code, within the framework of the regular procedure. On Tuesday 22 April 2008, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. In this regard, I inform you that the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, LDS and Lipa have announced obstruction to this point. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. The amendment of the coalition groups to Article 108 was tabled for third reading. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled to Article 108. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on this amendment. The vote is under way. There are 48 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 49 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture, within the framework of the regular procedure. On Tuesday 22 April 2008, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the drafter, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. Two amendments were tabled, namely Article 186 of the amendment of the coalition groups and Article 122 of the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. I am putting to the debate the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors to Article 122. Explanation on behalf of Pardon. [[...]] Mr. Victory Jelinčič The noble have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u232	Thank you very much. If I am not mistaken, the amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Parliamentary Group has already been rejected, and since we voted against it at that time, we will now vote against it in the SNS once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u234	On behalf of New Slovenia. In Novi Slovenija, we have tabled this amendment with one purpose: to allow farms to perform or maintain hydromeliorative works within a specific melioration community, and this is our purpose. We are convinced that certain farmers have this possibility, have machines, knowledge, the minister will lay down rules; and we are also convinced that these services would be much cheaper and, above all, more efficient. For this reason, we also ask other parliamentary groups to give this opportunity and that this be enshrined in the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will certainly vote against the amendment and really advise others to vote against this amendment. Indeed, this amendment effectively strikes strongly in accordance with the principle of integrated and integrated water management, which is also recorded in the Slovenian legal order and is, of course, transposed from the relevant water directives. This amendment, of course, makes it possible to operate and maintain these systems without actually taking care of the water balance, the water situation, the water supply and not the restoration of these stocks. If each of these were available, this option would soon run out of water, both superficial and underground. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to reject this amendment and I think that it is actually establishing an integrated water management system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on this amendment. [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, it's a debate. Can I help you? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 44. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 186. I find that there are no debaters, so I can end the debate that was not there and move on to the vote. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted would make the law inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group - Mr Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u238	Thank you for your word. Despite the harsh and beautiful words we have heard about how good the law is before us, it is important to stress, however, that many amendments have really been adopted to this law. Unfortunately, however, in my opinion and also in the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats, an amendment has not been adopted to enable the implementation of the agricultural law. Indeed, the Agriculture Act imposes the adoption of a national programme which is to be valid for at least 4 years and for a maximum of 7 years. Of course, the national programme is also the programme under which rural development can be implemented. The rural development measure concerns increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of the production and processing of agricultural crops and foodstuffs, environmentally friendly agricultural activities, restructuring and conservation of rural settlements and so on. In short, the national programme would identify key elements of agricultural policy and identify the resources for implementing this agricultural policy. Unfortunately, this law does not say when the Government will draw up a national programme when the National Assembly has to adopt it, which means that rural development measures that operators can introduce cannot be coordinated with the national programme because we do not have one, and that means that the Agriculture Act cannot be implemented in the most important content that this law is submitted to the National Assembly at all. Therefore, we do not have a deadline to be defined in the law and would be binding on how long the Government has to adopt the national programme and when it has to submit it to the National Assembly. This weakness has already been pointed out in the examination, unfortunately not successful, and even at the moment when it is necessary to vote on the Agriculture Act as a whole, I can say that we will not oppose the law, but I say that this law is useless, because it does not have a key document that will enable rural development to be implemented and that will determine the resources for implementing these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u239	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present for 57, against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyers, which is the third consideration under the shorter procedure. On Tuesday 22 April 2008, the National Assembly held a second reading of that draft law in the context of a reduced procedure. In this regard, I inform you that the LDS and Lipa Group have announced obstruction to this point. We have two amendments to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Third reading Law, namely the amendment to Article 12 and the amendment to Article 48 of the Coalition Group. Who wants to discuss the amendment to Article 12? No, no, no. That is why we are moving on to a decision on this amendment. There are 56 Members and Members present, for 42, for 9. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment to the 48th members of the same groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Let's move on to the decision. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 8. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. On behalf of the parliamentary group, Mrs Darja Lavtišar Bebler, explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u240	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats will oppose this bill for the reasons already stated. Now let me remind you of one thing. It is a shame that a law has come into this Parliament, which is contrary to the Constitution and an intervention in the judiciary, which as part of the judiciary is a self-serving and independent service. The bar is completely degraded in this law. And lawyers can joke, "We've been through a rough time, we've been through lead times. We've been through Bolshevism, and now that it's freedom, we're going very badly." We can't possibly support this marriage. We think it's embarrassing for the National Assembly and for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-24-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u241	Thank you very much. I find that no one wants to explain their vote anymore, so we are moving on to a decision. The vote is under way. There are 56 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 12. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 38th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Goodbye!
