ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u1	I begin the continuation of the 40th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed and inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Ambassador Dara Lavtijar Bebler, Anton Anderlič, Roberto Battelli, Franz Pukšič, Mitja Slavinec, Jakob Presečnik, from 15 hours forward, and colleague Jožef Školč. I also inform you that at 5 p.m., we will adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly for preparation for the festive session. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON AUTHORITIES AND COMMUNITY RIGHTS, SHORT-TERM PROCEDURE. I'd like to inform you that we have 3 hours and 18 minutes of time available for this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first signed by Mrs Majdo Širca. I give the floor to the representative of the bill's proposer, Mrs Majdi Shirca, for a further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u2	Good afternoon, nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry of Economy and everything! It will be complementary, but in certain forms I will also try to indicate what the amendment of the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which some members of the opposition parties, with our signatures, have forwarded to us for consideration and adoption. Clipping, all of you meet more or less in the morning or later with a summary of press reviews or a collection of media releases that are of interest to each individual either within political, economic, cultural or other types. This is a new practice, and certainly newer than the copyright law, which has somehow not included or absorbed these activities and has been overtaken by practice. That's why we're fixing the law today. It is necessary to change because in practice the Slovenian market has proved to be underdeveloped in this area and does not allow for the comprehensive and uniform regulation of these rights. Journalists' rights have been the subject of wide debate within the European Union for some time now. After all, the rights are also highlighted by the brochure, booklet or voice of civil society, which yesterday knocked on the conscience not only of political parties but also of others who wish to know how the media space in Slovenia should work optimally and in this case also mentions the right to copyright. Since this activity is not regulated by law, the authors of articles in individual media or journalists and journalists are not entitled by law, they are not entitled to compensation for the use of their texts for the purposes of video clipping. I'm using the term "clip" as a native term. In practice, the situation is now that the video clips of the agencies conclude a contract with media publishers, can be, but may not be, and this is individual contracts with each media in particular, if any, and if there is an agreement at all. It's not a very small business. There's a lot of money in this business. The authors of the texts, whether employed or part-time employees within the media, do not have a legally sound and legally sound remedy to this proportion, if I make it easier to say. And this novel establishes this right, so I appeal to your obedience, and it will satisfy those who have been the initiators of the legal supplementation, and it is intended to satisfy the publishers, that is, the real media that will be lending in the future, so to speak, their articles legally and in particular the journalists and journalists who will finally be entitled to the payment for the copyright work. And if in the grave and briefly summed up, the law does not now define reproduction of texts for the purposes of video clipping, paragraph 47 will now allow this, unless the author expressly prohibits it, which it has the right to. Only individual articles can be reproduced, that is to say, not whole scientific debates, essays and so on, general texts, so that there will be no embarrassment - it is not just reproduction from the press, but from the media in general, also electronic. The contracting authority - the issuing agency will have to pay the award provided for by the agreement and since you, through their will, have rejected the Ministry of Economy, or you, through their will, the possibility of negotiating one or the other with the conclusion of a joint agreement between the representative user associations and the collective organisation, will now be left to good will. Let's drop it. We kind of accepted it. I understand that you've all been under the influence of the bad experience of SAZAS, but you know, let me tell you that the video clip agencies are relatively small and these arrangements would certainly come to an end. The buyout from the video clip and from these fees will be distributed to the author in a ratio of 30% to journalists who are, say, already in some working or part-time relationship, and the rules of these conditions are very poorly solved within mutual contracts between authors. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and the publishers, and 70% to the publisher himself. [[...]] However, the author cannot give up his right to his share, which is very important. And this is particularly important for the participatives, who are sometimes forced by publishers to do so in many ways. I appeal to your support for the law because it is very important for the press, if I may say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u3	Thank you, too. The draft law was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee of Ferri Horvat to present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. At its 44th meeting, the Committee began to consider the proposal for a law, but discontinued the hearing because there was no opinion of the Government and then continued its consideration at the 45th meeting and also held it. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance. At the meeting, a letter was sent to the Committee from the Association of Journalists of Slovenia, which was sent by the company to the Office of Intellectual Property. Following consideration at the 45th meeting, the Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Government. In the debate, the representative of the Council of State expressed the view that the Government's proposal was an acceptable compromise. The Committee adopted the amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3 and are included in the amended draft law. The debate on the Committee and a number of suggestions and comments by both creators and users point out that there are a number of open issues and also different interests in this area. Therefore, a thorough assessment of the situation, the problems and possible better solutions will have to be made, which, given the reduced procedure, is not possible in dealing with this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u5	Thank you, too. The text is also given by the representative of the Government for the introductory explanation of the opinion. Mag. Tomaž Jeršič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! Let me briefly present the Government's position on this proposed law. Although the existing law has been slightly postponed and somewhat criticized, let me say that, in our view, the existing law already manages well enough the issue of the so-called Clipping. However, to make things more transparent, more exact, to make it easier for the authors to get their share of the compensation, the law that Mrs Shirca has tabled, we support. However, we have some concerns about these changes, certain points of view, certain corrections that we have considered on the Committee on the Economy and have also been adopted by the Committee on the Economy. Let me write them down for a second. We wanted to correct Article 1, nomotechnic correction. In particular, the proposal reduces the possibility of non-compliance with the European Directive. After a long debate on the Committee, we have even found a compromise solution, and I believe that, despite the easier form, it will not be inconsistent with the European Directive. In doing so, we had our doubts about Article 2 of the proposed amendment, which, if adopted, would introduce a mandatory collective body through which authors and publishers could exercise their rights. This seemed to us in conflict with Article 1 of the proposed law, as it reduces the set of rights that the author today has. Today, the author can exercise his rights by means of certain routes. If we accepted compulsory collective insurance, we could only do it through a collective body. With the proposed deletion of Article 2, we allow authors to decide whether to exercise their rights individually or to exercise their rights collectively. We're for a collective body, but not mandatory. However, we also wanted an amendment to Article 3 which was adopted by the Committee, as has been said. To keep the divisional relationship, we agree that the authors should get what they want. However, we wanted to - the proposal for the amendment did not show why it was necessary to establish a divisional relationship also for rightholders referred to in Article 47, paragraph 1, of the existing law. We stand in the position to join the proposal to share 30% in proportion to the other 70% in favour of the author and publisher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Ambassador Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Honorable representatives of the government! In the Slovenian National Party, we read the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. They're three signatories and we're not basically going to oppose the law. However, we stress the two concerns we have, which are probably also the reason for the rush. Firstly, in the Slovenian National Party we are convinced that the mandatory distribution of the collected compensation as one of the four solutions is not well established. 30% to the author and 70% to the publishers or copyright holders in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party is not a real division. Of course, you can ask yourself that question. And the second point we have in the Slovenian National Party is, in fact, the thought of Article 1 and, on the other hand, the content is essential. Reproducing in periodical print or in press reviews individual published articles on current economic, political or religious topics or other content of the same character, unless expressly prohibited by the author. According to my experience and my own judgment, there will be confusion here. Too large, too wide a range of rights and opportunities and, of course, at least in the political field, there will be chaos and in the subsequent periods of the National Assembly political evidence, whose media there is. There are no specific content on the question of reproduction. Secondly, reproduction of any content in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party would be necessary with the consent of the author. Of course you'll all give your opinion. Even though we have these concerns, as we have said, in the Slovenian National Party we will not interfere with the further adoption and procedure of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Mr Boztjan Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! Given that this will probably be one of the rare laws that comes from the opposition species and will receive the support of even government coalitions and governments, we will not oppose it in the Lip Group. As regards the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on copyright and related rights, this is primarily the issue of video clipping. This is the material that Members in principle get copied so that you can read how many times you have been published. In Slovenia, video clipping activities are largely carried out by 5 to 10 companies. The biggest problems arise when it comes to the rights of authors of articles. We know that these rights are protected, they are exclusive rights, which means that without express permission no one can use their works. The applicable law on copyright and related rights of clicks does not regulate its classical form. It is said that we are introducing almost a new subject into this law. The fundamental principles of the proposed law, respect for constitutional rights and freedoms, are, as our constitution says, freedom of expression. Ensure a fair balance between the interests of authors, rights holders and end-users, ensure the protection of the author as weaker customers. But if everything that's already written or what I believe you've all read here, in the explanations of the law, let's forget and try to touch the practice a little bit. Last but not least, we are all Members of the Chamber of Commerce, with which the Treaty of the National Assembly has been signed. I don't know how old you are to this clip, but once you look at it, you'll see there's a lot missing in it. I am in favour of this or in the Lipa Group that the video clip in Slovenia is also legal, because only then and in this way can it be required from an economic company that makes the video clip, that it is made up in an up-to-date and appropriate manner. But not like now that we have what maybe someone from the government coalition wants in a video clip, but even though it's not mentioned. Mr Zicherl, I will tell you the speech of Janša, who was a pure plagiarism of Tony Blair's speech, and we were unable to reach him in any way, despite the fact that the National Assembly has signed a contract for the implementation of this video. So much for "come on, come on, come on," but with the adoption of this law, we can also make this legal. In the Lipa Group, we will gladly support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u11	Thank you very much. My colleague Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable assembly, distinguished representatives of the government! The proposed amendment to the law in the original content proposed by the Group of Members introduces a new case of legal license in favour of press reviews of the field of video clipping. This means that organisations or individuals involved in media monitoring and for this purpose issuing press reviews should be entitled, under the law itself, to reproduce or publicly communicate certain current articles from the periodic press dealing with general issues, provided that the author has not expressly prohibited this, without the authorisation of copyright holders, the authors of this copyright should also be able to pay an appropriate compensation. Compulsory collective management is also proposed as it is not necessary for users to conclude contracts with individual copyright holders. Authors and rightholders would gain the possibility of effective control over the use of their works. The position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards this proposed novel with such content was also negative on the ground that the applicants did not carry out a preliminary analysis of the situation or a genuine serious debate in the professional and general public. We also agree with the Government's position in our parliamentary group because we believe that the law in force so far governs the relationship between the operation of video clips of organisations, publishers and authors of press contributions. However, certain matters, such as compensations to publishers and authors, journalists of selected works, are not implemented. The current law allows rightholders to authorise or prohibit the use of their works on the basis of an exclusive right, thereby also controlling the use. However, the proposal by the proposed amendment would reduce the standard of protection of authors and rightholders for the introduction of a legal license and the compulsory collective management of rights. This would also be inconsistent with the legal order of the European Union and international treaties, as shown in the presentation of arrangements in five selected countries where, with the exception of Germany, the scope of the click is not regulated in the way proposed by the applicants with the basic content. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights, but only with the additions proposed by the Government and adopted by the Committee on Economic Affairs, Enterprise and Crafts, as we fully agree with the Government's position. We believe that the improvement of individual legal provisions is particularly important for copyright holders who are expected to receive an appropriate payment for the use of their journalistic work, as well as for contracting authorities or agencies, to copy and choose press contributions. This is therefore a solution to the unregulated situation in which the most damaged journalists were creating press contributions without which there would be no video clips. This is the situation most exploited by media outlets. That is why our parliamentary group has already supported the amendments prepared by the Government on the home working body, and the amendments have also been supported by coalition parliamentary groups. In the parliamentary group, we do not support the proposed amendment to replace the word "similar character" in Article 1 with the word "social character" because such a dictatorship would be too broad and, above all, contrary to the directive of the European Union, which could lead to a new bill being challenged by the European Commission. In addition to the directive of the European Union, the proposed article on the Committee has been compromised by a broader definition of a similar character, which is already significantly broader than the original proposal of the Government, in order to define the diction of this nature as exceptions. We believe that the interpretation of a dictatorship of a similar nature will already come across different concepts in practice and thus some problems. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group of Members will be presented by Ambassador Majda Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Ambassadors and Members! The signature under the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights gives it to those who believe that the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposed amendment, which actually touches only three articles of the law. Whether changes are needed in the direction in which the opinions of the groups are now available, as well as in the opinion of the representative of the Government, is another issue. But first, something general about the relationship with copyright. The right to information and the desire to disseminate various works of copyright, which is increasing with new technical possibilities, has for the first time, in fact, allowed many to think when photocopying with the Copyright and Related Rights Act was limited and it was therefore necessary to obtain certain rights or to be more responsible for copyright rights. However, as Article 47 of the Law stipulated in paragraph 2 to reproduce in the periodic press the current articles in such a press, it is not possible to accept the claim that what the proposal is now trying to correct is sufficiently defined. The definition of periodical printing is completely clear in the section and the review of the press does not either judge or review media publications, as they like to be popularly called 'clipings' do not fall within the definition of periodical printing. Finally, due to media interference and also to the fact that the main publications or message bearers cover the review of media publications. What certainly needs to be highlighted as an advantage in this amendment and in the addition of the law is the relationship between the authors of the basic words. In the Group of Social Democrats, we do not believe that this is something that should be regulated primarily by the positions of the agencies involved in publishing and collecting various publications, given the client's expectations and wishes, but mainly the relationship with the author. Although the publisher's contract with the author usually states that the author is denied copyright once and for all by publishing. However, we understand the denial of copyright in order not to publish this same contribution on its own in another medium. But something completely different is what this means in relation to the production of media reviews. The relationship between the author and the publishers in the 30-70 ratio could, in our opinion, be regulated in half as well. However, the relationship that has now been set up is a proposal for a compromise agreement and we think it is much better to settle the matter in a way that is not regulated at all. If I touch Article 1, it is tautological to think of the articles on current economic, political, religious topics and then to add either the same content or content of the same character, and it means nothing. Therefore, the change in a similar character is better, but in the Group of Social Democrats we will support the amendment's proposal, which says that the word "similar" must be replaced by a "social" character, because it is impossible to say that European directives need to be understood so narrowly. Last but not least, the government could take such a narrow interpretation into account in vignettes, but it is very broad. We will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by colleague Aleš Gulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u16	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished presidents, representatives of the Ministry! A law or amendment of the Law on Copyright and Similar Rights was necessary. In other words, I can believe that the marriage we've been married has been good, but if it were so good, there wouldn't be any problems. Clipping itself is not such an old thing as to take into account the patterns from which the present law was made. And in fact, there's always been some way of stretching the lyrics so that they could go into that text. This is also evident from the discussions so far, since we have continued to hesitate between terms such as the review of the press, the review of media releases, to say the most appropriate syntagma, such as the collection of contributions. These are very different things, the review of the press are short summaries, the review of media releases are summaries of other media releases, not only printed, it is about records, magnetograms, what has been told in the electronic media, but in the collection of contributions it is really about what is then, in a word, with a foreigner, we call video clip. Certainly these matters are not regulated, and the video clippers are not always fully convinced of what they want and how they want to do it. Here is not so much about the abuse of usually copyright, but it is usually a feeling that at the moment the matter is published, everything is ours and is freely available, at least most of those who make their own clips think so. The authors are injured, injured several times. They are already very, very tight because of publishing rights, because of the rights of the media houses, and it is right that these matters have been settled. Whether the ratio of 30 to 70 is good or bad, this is likely to turn out in time. Above all, it seems to me that it is important that this matter is inseparable. It is said that even the author cannot give up on this, for if this were possible, there would soon be some persuaders who, of course, would be able to convince him that it is necessary to give up. Of course, such cases have already occurred. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the amendment of the law. However, we will also support the amendment mainly because it does have built-in what we like to forget that the authors are not only responsible or to a lesser extent responsible to the media owners, but are primarily responsible to the public. They still represent the public service at the final stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Member Martin Mikolič.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u18	Nicely greeted! Presidents, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! We usually hear from this place by the opposition when there is a government law on the agenda, and there is a good and, in fact, the opposition has no argument to oppose, they somehow conclude in their opinions: we will not oppose the law. Today there is a law before us that has been tabled in the procedure by a group of Members with the first signed by Mrs Majdo Shirca. However, I must say that in the New Slovenia Group, not only will we not oppose the law, but we will also support it. Why? The proposal, with its solutions and proposals, certainly presents solutions in an area that has not so far been best, once again I stress, best regulated. The area of media and video clipping has certainly become one of those who needs appropriate legislation during the period of the Internet explosion. Both individuals and organizations want to get as much information as possible and as much information as possible about what is said about it, what is reported on it, what the public wants to know about it. Clipping is thus becoming an important activity that takes care of such awareness. This raises the problem of the protection of copyright for journalists, authors who publish their articles in the media. In fact, agencies dealing with video clips should, after the current law of each author of an article they wish to copy, obtain permission to use the article in a video clip. This certainly means a major legal and bureaucratic obstacle, which is addressed by the amendment, as it provides a legal basis for the legal application of media content for the purpose of monitoring media, the so-called click. The Novela continues to allow collective management of copyright for these purposes, as well as individual exercise of copyright. The Novela also introduces fair distribution of collected compensation between authors and copyright holders. In Novi Slovenija we believe that the copyrights that are divided by 30% of the authors and 70% of the copyright holders are fair, saying that the division is in some fair proportion. We support the amendment of the law in the New Slovenia Group, as amendments to the coalition have also been adopted on the Committee, which have ensured compliance with the European legal order, with a more precise directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u19	Thank you very much. And colleague Kristijan Janc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honorable representatives of the government. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to begin by asking: Who among us here today in the hall or at least recently has not taken into his hands the extract of an article called the Clipping because of the abundance of work and occupation with many other things instead of the newspaper? I believe that there are not many people here who, in any case, do not regularly use this service, media monitoring activities through an external operator, i.e. the agency's video clipping. In carrying out this activity, when the video clipper chooses media publications of interest to the contracting authority and transmits them to it in such or other form, the video clip agency cannot avoid copying or reproduction of individual works of copyright. However, the right of an individual or an undertaking to information, the right to be informed, is not unlimited. In contrast, we also have an important and constitutionally protected copyright or related right. The rights of authors of articles and other journalistic contributions are exclusive rights, which means that without express permission no one can use their works. We agree with the proposaler that at a point where the interest of the agency's video clipping and the interest of the copyright holder also needs to be regulated by copyright law. The bill is also supported by the Association of Journalists of Slovenia, which is perfectly logical and also shows a consensus reached with the professional public, to which the law is also intended. The law also supports the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with some comments, amendments and additions, which were already included in the draft law. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will also support the proposed law because of the above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Zares will present the position of Ambassador Majda Shirca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I am pleased that most of the political parties present in implementation support this legal regime, which will benefit all users, those who provide these services, as well as journalists and journalists. I will particularly be happy if the support is also shown to change the article that remains open and which, in my opinion, will have a key impact on the solutions that will be good. Let me re-emphasize, and this needs to be reflected in consciousness. The issue of copyright or video clipping services is now not explicitly settled, and now there is a relaxed situation, or they should be making these gentle but important changes. Journalists have no legal assurance that they may be beneficiaries of copyright benefits. In practice, it now looks like a video clip agency has concluded an agreement on the commercial use of articles with an publisher, it is said, with the media and pays them to use the articles. However, if the authors want to or can, of course, recover compensation or the right to pay their own fees from the media and make an effort to do so themselves if they are trying at all. And as we know, we don't. Ratio 30:70, today it was said to be questionable. True, we have remained open here in many, by the way, not in any general and fast discussions at all. After all, the discussions in the past were also wide and long-lasting by the operators. We left this option open, especially because the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce or, if I may say so, Czecha, said "nothing to the authors, 100% to the media, only to the media," says what it already is. That's not right. Journalists said 50:50, "fifty-fifty", however, in the end there was no dispute over this ratio of 30%:70%, because after all the author, the journalist was already through a working relationship or through a fee paid to the media, working in the media, already in some way paid for this work. In summary, the Society of Journalists, not the new press association led by Mr Peter Jančič from these days, has not been defined until our proposal. But the Society of Journalists of Slovenia also welcomed our novel in the light of the fact that the overall position of copyright of journalists and journalists is increasingly subordinated to the capital interests of media houses. In contracts, journalists sometimes have to give up their own copyrights, especially those who are not employed. They also stressed, and I agree with this that journalists in practice do not have the right to click, and the media house has only recently exercised this right. And that is why I absolutely agree with society that this novel brings some kind of ray of hope. I'm glad you'll support her. Of course, I was surprised, but I am not alone in the State Council that this amendment and the addition of the copyright law were addressed by two committees, the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Culture. However, only the Committee on the Economy has considered this amendment within the National Assembly. I think that the Ministry of Culture should say something, especially because it is the guardian of the media or the guardian of copyright in general. Okay, well, that's just the way it is, and I understand that she doesn't or can't be different. I regret or regret the fact that we had to give up or that a solution to compulsory collective management of copyright had been introduced. It has been rejected, despite the fact that such a way of protection is sought by agencies involved in the video clipping activity and also by publishers, because every single agreement around [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] as problematic as possible. [[...]] What is crucial, and what is fatal, is that amendment that you have on the table and that wants and wants to follow less restrictively, less restrictively, less piously the European Union Directive, which is certainly a minimum, which means some starting point that is implemented in a country in a manner consistent with its tradition, its requirements and practice. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The world. [[...]] I will further explain why it is necessary to agree with our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u23	Thank you very much. And colleague Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everyone. And now it is clear that there is no need for a particularly bitter commitment to the proposal of this law, for everything shows that almost all of us will support it or that there was no need to hear against it. Not even the Government, although the Government has supported this proposal of law or amendments and additions after it has completely changed it. So nothing is left intact, except for an idea that is actually essential. In the DeSUS Group, of course, we will also support this bill and let me say that we also support the amendment proposal. We are aware of the importance of authorship, we are aware of the need to protect the rights of authors and those whom we refer to as rights holders, and we are also aware that in such laws, where this is a highly creative area, it is not possible to think and regulate everything in advance. Hence, there is likely to be some further need for change in the future, even as authorship itself will develop. The government supported the proposal after its amendments to the only three articles, I will say, have thoroughly improved it. Apart from the video clip, we can now talk about government elevators, but such a proposal is acceptable to us. Otherwise, we believe that, just as some others have estimated, less should be committed to what European directives and regulations provide. What we now have in front of us in terms of terminology, which, of course, is not just an external problem, this stiffness, the commitment of each comma and dots limits us. And in this case, it is probably not right to restrict us, as it is now envisaged, to limit ourselves to just three areas in which we allow ourselves activities that are intended to protect authors and rightholders. We will support this bill in the Member State of DeSUS, we will also support the amendment, because we hope that the rights of authors will be slightly more protected in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u25	Thank you very much. With your performance, we have also concluded by presenting the views of individual parliamentary groups that have expressed their wish for this. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled on 23.6. We have an amendment or amendment to Article 1. The proposal shall be submitted by the Zares Group of Members. Does anyone want to discuss the proposed amendment? Member Maja Shirtz has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Indeed, some of the proposals proposed by the Government will not be said to have been 'eat'. One of them made sense, the one about collective governance, I don't think so. This is not the same topic as the very bulky and very problematic topic that revolves around SAZUS. There's a completely different situation here. We wanted to facilitate this process by collective bargaining with representative bodies and not need to negotiate with each individual. But all right, I think they'll find a way, because the second basis of marriage will be good. However, it is crucial and crucial if this amendment, which we have tabled in the Really Group, is not accepted. Why? You say or what was achieved on the parental committee was followed by a diction or definition of video clip at your will. However, the government believes and advocates the definition of video clipping that this is in line with the directive, that individual published articles on current economic, current economic, no cap, political or religious topics or other content similar to what we have proposed are of a better similar character if the author does not explicitly prohibit it. Clipping by this definition, as directed by the Directive, is limited to policy questions and texts, current economic issues and religious issues. Therefore, I ask you now whether this is incompatible with the directive, which we have proposed so far, you say, let's say that the law does not have to be regulated at all, because it already allows this, then we have been in breach of the directive since 2001, when the directive referred to by the Government or the Office of Intellectual Property has been in breach. And I'm asking why we haven't changed yet. Such restrictive perception of directives and papal tracing is not wise. The end of the directive is not laws. Directives are the basis for providing some specific protection and a starting point for each country to adapt, depending on its position, to its development, to its needs and specificities. If the government refers to the directive, then I ask where it has been so far, when we have understood the video more widely and we have violated the directive for the past seven years. I ask whether in this life everything is really just about politics, the economy and the faith. That's not true. It also revolves around education, education, culture and other issues. And if you are interested, for example, in the public institute Drama, SNG, Maribor, Ljubljana, whatever, if you want to know what the media think of its activities, then their click will consist of three articles of those who will report on what has been happening in politics around culture, not about reviews of a certain theatre performance and more. If you think it is possible in the Government to explain that that dictatorship and other content of a similar character justify all the activities that I have just listed and which go beyond politics, economy and religion, a similar character or other substance of a similar character, in my understanding and certainly also after the understanding of others, and of lawyers in general, refer to a similar content, to a similar nature of the economy, politics and religion, once again. That's what they say. A reference to that. And let's see what the directive says. The Directive, which by the way mentions that Member States are specifically opting for exceptions, should allow Member States to provide for exemptions or restrictions on reproduction, exceptions to restrictions on use should not be hampered by specific contracts, licences, such exemptions and restrictions should not be applied in a way that affects the interests of the rightholder. It is always the interest of rightholders in the first place. And when the Directives are being weighed, they taught us this especially at a time when we have adapted and rushed with adaptations to European legislation, we have always had the issue of the directive before us. There are some bases that are then upgraded and adapted, of course not to jump out of them. No, it certainly doesn't. But it makes sense to use them always in the light that the holder is the one who protects himself from the principle that needs an answer. Does it mean improving the author's legal safety or not in this case? This response should be responded to by the Directive. If I am going closer to that principle of this directive, then I can look at the Article 5 on which you refer, it is true. It speaks of reproduction in the press, of making public or making available to the public the articles published, of current economic, political or religious topics or of works presented or of other content of the same character and so on. But don't make a dot here, this article goes on, this directive, which you really are following very, very papally. So loyally it is necessary to understand this world, that at the end of the clip it will look for some of these, and only the politicians will have one, and so on and so forth, clearly, in fact, if we are politicians, then we will read everything in order, at least by ourselves, left, right, middle and other wide media. Okay, I get it, but electronic media is hard to track and video clips come in handy. However, the directive does not make a point here, but it speaks of the need to state the source, including the author's name or, "or," the directive goes on to say that the use of parts or objects of similar rights in relation to reporting on current events is necessary. Here, however, it is no longer just political, religious and not just economic - current events. That is why I would like, and I am sure that Slovenia will not violate anything if it regulates this definition of video clipping - and this law stands here, otherwise its value is too small, too short, and I myself will be very unhappy with its solution. That "similar character" should be replaced by the word "social". Clipping will continue to be limited to the fact that exceptions are limited to short articles, we do not publish essays, scientific debates, but we do not just reduce this world to politics, faith and economy. This world is, thank God, made up of other content and if anyone, after all, should also benefit from information on what is happening within science, within education, within culture and within all those social, entertaining spheres of life that are important. But it's not the politics of the center of this world that the clip still has to be a priority. I mean, you're not going to break in front of Europe, you're not going to have to pour your ashes before Europe. Let the agencies, journalists and the media breathe normally and that we have the video clip as we have now, when we can also get the data or articles from these areas that the Government does not want to define now. And in that sense, I don't know, I'm wondering, let's say that some sports organization, some sports society or some, I don't know, a school, by the measure of man, what I know, there's a lot of these people who want to know, maybe they don't even have money for all the media or for other reasons that want to know what public opinion is about what they're doing. In this case, for example, sport will be mentioned either culture or ballet or entertainment only in the segment, if it has an economic character, political character and if it touches religious content. That's what you call selective. Then it doesn't make sense that we still have the video clip. And so it will be limited and so the agencies will be confused and constantly hit, whether the Intellectual Property Office will control the video clip and so on. That's how a lot of things are gonna be thrown out. Here, the Ministry of Culture, of course, should be the one defending copyright and related rights and regulating them, but there is another interest that should be resolved and answered more unanimously within the Government. The Minister of Culture should not remain silent on this subject, but he should say that the spectrum of life is wider. Clipping and press and press rights are bigger here. Thank you so much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The technical services went to check what happened to the speakers. You've probably noticed that, in the meantime, there has been a decrease, a hundred percent not due to content, Comrade Shirca. I'm asking, is sounding good enough right now? Can we move on, or can we wait? We can proceed. The word has been given by Ambassador Maja Potrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u28	Thank you. At the time of the presentation of the Group's position, I said that the Social Democrats would support the amendment to Article 1. However, let me say something else about Article 1. Even now in the existing law before this amendment, the author had this explicit right in paragraph 2 of paragraph 1 to prohibit reproduction in the periodic press. Thus, after this amendment, the law does not impose any new restrictive right and protects the author, who for any reason does not permit reproduction of his copyright, either in the periodic press or in the review of the press. I would like to point out again that I myself understand the need to correct or supplement this text precisely because it is necessary to define precisely the term of periodical printing, which is precisely defined in the professional literature, and the revision of the press is, in its own terminology, written here in a somewhat reduced form, because the examinations can also be made in other media, not only in printed texts. Everyone usually has a check or click in their hands, which also includes radio posts and publications on various television stations. In this way it is necessary to take the matter in such a narrower sense and to understand more broadly, as the term 'new news' of the conference replaces the term 'print' because other media representatives are present in addition to the representatives of the printed media. But it's written here as it is written. Now for the second part. I myself understand the matter as proposed by the amendment, i.e. that the term "similar content" can also be linked to the current, because this is a more precise definition of three content sets. This is where the economy, politics and religion are specifically mentioned. To me, these three areas are the narrowing of the interest of readers and other media escorts, if I go only through the different sections of the ordinary diary. The journal may also have a page dedicated to knowledge, a page dedicated to health, science, but it is not particularly about in-depth scientific contributions that find a place in a specialized periodical press, but it is about information about modern knowledge that interests a wider range of readers and also helps to popularise specific areas. Therefore, the review of the press is limited only to the economy, to politics and to the faith of the marriage of the interest of the contracting authority. This is because if, for example, I look from a point of view, for example, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is looking for a contribution in the video free of charge about the social work centre, because this will not be a contribution that concerns an economy that concerns politics or that concerns religion, but it concerns a social area, a social area. That is why I think the previous interpretation, which even said "the same thing", which means only economies, politics and religions, is a very bad solution. Well, she was better, she was better, but in particular, I stress, she's inappropriate in her "like" character. But if we say "social," then social coverage is also covered by education or education, it's covered, as we say, by health. These are all things that we are very interested in and that are essential to those who follow from a professional point of view. And here I do not see that it is necessary to act very restrictively because it would be ordered from the point of view of the directive. This is a matter of a different significance. The meaning of the word "similar" to me as a Slovenian is something other than "the same" and, again, something other than "social". And I advocate the idea that if we follow the regulation of the field of press review, we must follow what is seen in the periodic press as a possibility. Although I can embalm or judge fashion in economic activity or judge in some particular part perhaps even in art, but I still don't know if I should find it under that "similar". But I would probably like to see her as an escort and as a reader, and as a reader we might find such a border area, so of course I appeal to representatives, Members and Members of the coalition species who usually listen or listen, not rather, but listen to what the Government has to say in this case, so that they will listen to sound reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u29	Thank you. Member Miro Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u30	Here you go. Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! As I am here in Parliament, we have talked several times about copyright. Mostly about SAZAS and these tariffs, but less about authors, their rights, copyright protection and so on. I think it will be three years, which I have pointed out in this place to the problem of video clipping and soon I have also sent one question to the Ministry of Economy on the regulation of video clips in Slovenia. Look, 23. Ten. In 2006, I received an interesting reply, one part of which I will quote here: "At the Ministry of the Economy of the Republic of Slovenia, we believe that the current EU directives are harmonised legislation in this area, in which the current proposal of the novel does not affect, is appropriate and that there is no need to pay additional compensation to authors according to it. It is already considered as flat upon purchase of any device that allows photocopying and or scanning. We believe that the contracting authority pays the external examiner to monitor the media instead of him, collects the requested materials and arranges them, without prejudice to accessible works in public. Such an examination does not in itself have a specific economic value" - beware - "the examination itself does not have a specific economic value, as it is usually used in companies for archival purposes and even more so as to run as a leak in the presentation of activities. Since the review can be carried out on its own under the conditions laid down in Article 50 of the ZAS without further compensation by any independent entrepreneur, discrimination against otherwise established economic operators in our view would be unjustified. Last but not least, the preparation of the reviews in itself does not have a significant impact on the volume of sales of printed media," and so on. Now I don't know if this is really about ignorance on the Ministry's side, whether it's pure ignorance or cynicism. Then I made a proposal for a new law on video clipping. This is the case this year, the proposal is quite similar to what we have today on the table, and I have received a negative response from the Government. I thank the Government for giving a positive response today, and I congratulate my fellow Members on their success and, of course, I will absolutely support this law, along with this amendment, which we are also talking about now. Three years ago, I started talking about video clips because I worked for 20 years alone in journalism and talked to agency representatives. These are 5.6 and all the agencies had an interest in this matter being settled. They knew they were in an illegal position. The country is also in some way and everyone who uses this clip is on slippery ground. When public institutes sign contracts with video-clip agencies annually, they shall be protected in such a way that they say that the video-clips of the agencies must have regulated copyrights. Do the agency's video clips today have regulated copyrights with authors? They don't! These agencies have been talking to media outlets in recent years, but they have no relationship or connection with journalists and journalists can exercise all these rights only within the framework of their collective agreement or copyright contract. Why do I think that in some way it would be good to collectively regulate these rights? It's because now a particular media house is talking to a particular agency. Here, an interesting situation may arise that some of the agency's video clips will be in a privileged position to pay less for their services to media outlets than a competitive video clip agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u31	My friend Friday. Please understand me, too. My job is to respect the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say that we are talking only about the article and the amendment tabled. You're excused, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u32	That's exactly what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u33	You're in the general debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u34	This is not a general debate, because I was also talking about amendments [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u35	Amendment or amendment, I quote, as proposed by the proposer: 'In Article 1, the word'similar' is replaced by the word'social'. Please, let us not go from the frameworks set out in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u36	Mr President, I have mentioned that I really support the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. And if you won't let me explain it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u37	I just want us to stick to the Rules of Procedure. That's exactly what you and the Rules of Procedure are asking me to do, so I told you to consider that I'm in a difficult position. But I see the other 80 Members nod. The Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. As I have said in the introduction, there has been a broad debate on the working body of the mother and I think that a constructive debate has been held, as far as article 1 of the proposed law is concerned. The proposer says that the directive is to be implemented in each individual Member State as it would suit us, but I must oppose it. It is true that certain directives are put into a framework and can then be limited by each individual Member State itself. This directive, however, explicitly states - what was proposed on the committee - "of the same character", in English, "content off the same acter". I have already initially warned that, after this discussion that we had with you on the working body, somehow with the warning that we are risking additional comments, we have warned, however, the European Commission that we are agreeing to the word'similar character'. We think that this is much broader than "the same," but we are against replacing the word "similar" with the word "social", just in the title of the directive. However, I do not agree with the fact that we are more popes than the pope, because that is how certain directives are imposed on us, which we cannot and cannot do, and neither can you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u39	Thank you, too. So we are at Article 1 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Member Maja Shirtz has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u40	Mr President, I am sorry that you have limited the very constructive debate of a Member who seems to know what this is about because he was a journalist. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u41	Mrs. Shirca, but you know [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u42	I know, yeah, I know. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u43	As well as I do, the Rules of Procedure require one content from us. [[...]] I believe that the discussion is qualitative, but the Rules of Procedure adopted by the National Assembly, not Saša Pece, this is not my whim, requires that only the amendment be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u44	I agree that those who know the matter also see reservations and difficulties in such a conscientious nod in Brussels for each comma. But at the same time, let me point out for myself that there is a real issue of video clipping some new practices. Personally, years ago, I felt that the exceptions allowed by the directive, which, by the way, is not made up of three lines, but consists of a lot of "spy" and should be read in context, but not only in those three lines and you did not use this whole paragraph, but only half where it is as restrictive as possible. I did not think in the past that video clipping should also be regulated in copyright, because I thought it was regulated within our copyright and related rights law through reproduction, which we know from libraries and other quotations. And it is precisely Member Friday that warned me at one early session, and I am surprised to hear today that the Government has been very happy two years ago, that we have a wonderful set-up, and now it sees that the world will collapse because we have not followed the European directive, which has been since 2001 - by the way - and which no one has contested so far. In short, don't be - I mean, Slovenians and Slovenians will bury us with this "shake" and loyalty if we follow the letters consistently and avoid thinking about the context. The context is the one that matters. Now it's all subjugated - it's true, the biggest subscriber of the video is government services, they're ministries, they're all offices. This is the largest customer, because the media is in fact dependent on power to a large extent. That is why, of course, she is always so upset and has so many itchy fingers in the media. That'll do. But understand that the world is also made up of other interesting areas: leisure, entertainment, culture, science, medicine, sport and everything, and this is what we are trying to do within this word an innocent, which is called "social", "social character", to satisfy; and you will also be satisfied with your interests. You're going to be in a conflict again when someone asks you, "Why is there a performance evaluation in this video all of a sudden, I don't know, Bertolta Brecht in New Town?" Why, though, some who do not have an economic, political, and religious character? Not Brecht with faith at all! Well, either way! You may have to study Brecht and look into him for economic, political and religious character - but current content. Which means Brechtov's show from New Town shouldn't be on the air. However, it is important for, say, the allocation of cultural resources, which, of course, also refer to media criticisms, to assessments, comments and views on what has been done, which is in some ways also the basis for obtaining additional funds in the future. Of course, we are back in politics after the curves. I mean, if you've already limited this poor collective bargaining, where there are five, six, seven agencies, with a large economic flow, I think it's 3 million euros or half, maybe someone will fix me, the values that flow annually in this activity. If you are these six agencies now, perhaps more will be involved in this arrangement - I will immediately end up in this article - but unfair competition will be subject to it. Of course, when there is no collective bargaining, some will work at a price that some may, a little bit more, some little less, no doubt, and this is not in the spirit of caring for the economic interests that the Ministry of Economy is supposed to represent. In short, what I mean is that agencies will be here with every author, and there will be thousands, thousands of journalists, they have to follow and defend these copyrights somewhere. But let's just say that we've swallowed this misunderstanding, and let's eat up this narrow understanding of what the media is. That's it, your perception of what the media are. Oh, no! Look, my dears, the 5.c point that I'm saying is exempt from a bunch of materials called the directive. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u45	Mrs. Shirca, please, we're at Article 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u46	Yes, which spreads the video clipping or summaries of the press outside the policy, economy and religion, also to the reporting of current events within the scope of etc., as stated in Article 5c, second paragraph, of the said Directive, if we must follow it as well as the 'Fyakers' horses'. Europe isn't like that. Europe is not one to say: here, Slovenian, but you will now do as this directive says. This means to perceive the context, however, means to perceive the spirit that is being implemented. And since it says this in every directive, it is a common standard, a minimum, which, of course, does not involve excessive excesses and excesses and bends, but it fits into something meaningful and logical; please, logically - logic is still working for the Slovenians to be a little more flexible and a little less rigid and a little bit more, I think, unlimited when they get on a plane to Brussels, then it freezes. This is happening today! I mean, even in Belgrade, it was more relaxed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u47	Thank you, too. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendment today, half an hour after the end of the 36th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on takeovers. We have 50 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mag. Tomaž Jeršič, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! The proposal for a new takeover law aims at greater protection for all, especially minority shareholders. A key amendment to the proposed novel is to expand the range of non-disclosure companies subject to the takeover law. To those non-public shareholders that alternately meet one of the conditions, at least 250 shareholders or four million total capital. So far, in the current acquisition law, this condition is cumulative and speaks of 250 shareholders and billions of tolars of basic capital. The following amendment reads as follows: 'According to the definition of voting rights shares, the rights deriving from securities acquired under future contracts shall also be considered as new in addition to optional contracts or redemption rights.' The change is also in the work where we are talking about the final threshold, the threshold. The existing legislation already speaks of 75% of the share, but it is not explicitly written and after certain interpretations the last threshold ends at 66%. This is not written, however, in practice it is possible to interpret it this way because there is no exact record. A further amendment suggests that an obligation for non-disclosure companies to prepare and make available to the public an independent audit report on the eligibility of the acquisition price is also introduced during the mandatory contents of the prospectus. The purpose of the provision is primarily to provide small shareholders with a high-quality basis for an informed decision on the sale of their securities to that company. An amendment is also introduced that the rule already in force is that an authorised member representing the consignee must not make the opposite offer on his behalf, this shall be extended so as not to make the opposite offer nor as an authorising officer of a third party. This eliminates the possibility of misuse of confidential information by one acquirer for the benefit or harm of another. I believe that a transitional provision, which says that if adopted, is crucial or important, does not intervene retroactively in retroactively. This means that non-public shareholders not covered by the takeover law or who did not fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 4 have to make a takeover offer when they acquire the next share of that company. Thus, companies which, if adopted, will have more than 25% of voting rights at the time of entry into force of the law will not have to make a takeover offer unless they acquire the next share of the same company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u49	Thank you very much. However, the proposal for a law was treated by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. The word is given by the chairman of the board of Ferry Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! At its 45th meeting, on 4 June, the Committee considered the draft law as a working body of the mother. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. On the basis of this opinion, the coalition parliamentary groups tabled amendments adopted by the Committee and form an integral part of the amended draft law. The Committee was also informed of the opinion and comments of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders. In addition to the President of the Association, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and a representative of the Securities Market Agency also participated in the discussion. According to the representative of the Government, the All-Slovenian Association participated in the preparation of the amendment of the law. Comments that have not been taken into account will need to be examined and, where possible, taken into account in the next amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u52	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Like the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or like the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the next few days, it will come to the National Assembly with a single state social assistance for those who are socially or materially threatened within our country, thus not solving the long-term, not the short-term, not the medium-term situation. Slovenia needs systemic measures, not so-called electoral measures. The law before us today, i.e. the amendment of the Act on takeovers, is, in my firm belief, only a drop into the sea under the most predominant legislation, the protection of small shareholders or anything related to the transfer of individual ownership, the work of ownership. So, we can't talk, no one in this room, that the takeover law, like it is before us today, can solve the systemic matter of protecting small shareholders. If the National Assembly or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were serious about the big words all the way from the "pure shovel" forward, i.e. from the movement of capital from the beginning or the transparent movement of capital from the beginning of this year, then the Minister of Economy would follow the call of the Lip Group of Ambassadors of 4 February 2008. I quote a letter or a request from the Minister of Economy in the form of protection or in pursuit of the objective of protecting small shareholders, as defined by both laws, the Company Act and the Takeover Act. In the end, I'll tell you what the minister's answer was. I quote: "For this reason, Minister Vizjak, as representative of the executive branch of the economy, you are invited to prepare the Takeover Act, which will allow for appropriate cash withdrawals after three months of publication of the outcome of the takeover offer, not the cash withdrawals determined by the large owner, that is, 90% of the capital, but the price which, at least after our assessment, will be multiplied by the ratio of the classic cash deposit determined by the Bank of Slovenia or the European Central Bank." So, if only the National Assembly, if indeed the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and if indeed the Ministry of Economic Affairs were trying under this law, which is today, to protect the so-called minority shareholders. The bill before us today, once again, is a minimal, partial change that will not systematically introduce anything into the system of protection of small shareholders. Once again, article 384, which speaks of the expulsion of small shareholders, the Act on Economic Companies, is a law or article that should be supplemented by the content that I have read to you at this time, if you really want to pursue non-refoulement or better-quality offers that should be accepted by small shareholders in exchange for the fact that you do not want them to be on the market - the emphasis is on whether or not they want to be on the market from a certain shareholder company, exempted from future ownership of property, despite the fact that in the T-moment they have the securities of a particular shareholder company. So once again, to conclude, it is possible that it will be all a little bit less clear what solution we have proposed in the context of the Lip Group. A share company with 100 per cent of the capital allocated to securities. When someone collects 90% of their capital at some point, it can be nothing to you, the 10% of them with what's called an ejection. And this moment is controversial if we follow the protection of small shareholders, that is, those who have ten or whose joint ownership, that's a thousand, one hundred or ten thousand, not more than 10%, that one, so-called large, over 90%, can print them out. And that's the problem with small shareholders. And of course the acquisition price, which is determined by the existing legislation after three months by a large shareholder - and here is the basic apple of the dispute. And if we were to determine, revalue the ex post value or offer value with the European Bank's coefficient, then we would do something about it. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] in the direction of protection of small shareholders. [[...]] Otherwise, this kind of partial solution, as the Government offers us today, is about as a one-time help to those who do not come from day to day, only from month to month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Starman has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice hello to you all! The amendment extends the scope of the takeover law to those non-public shareholders with at least 250 shareholders or at least 4 million total capital. The current law provides that the law applies in addition to public companies also to non-public companies if they have at least 250 shareholders and at least one billion SITs of basic capital. This proposal significantly reduces these criteria, making it necessary to take into account the provisions of the Takeover Act significantly more public shareholders and non-disclosure companies, thus contributing to greater transparency in the acquisition of these companies and thereby increasing the protection of small shareholders. In some ways, this law is actually too late, like many others that we have accepted about acquisitions. We, I have said many times, have come in this stage of property transformation of our social property in those 10, 15 years practically - we have distributed it to all. We had a unique opportunity to ensure, in some way, that social-market capitalism by doing so and in a way that, of course, if we gave any kind of fuse, at least so that these certificates or those shares that we acquired by dividing should not be sold and marketed for at least 10 years. In this way, when this was not the case, we did not protect or inform these small new shareholders, who were never shareholders, who became the target of the Pidov chiefs, I would say that investment companies, which are mainly, instead of taking care of some kind and developing to invest in the restructuring of our economy, have practically taken care of the collection of shares, almost free of charge acquired these shares from all these small investors that they had in pids. The same work was done by leaders in companies, managers, and I think that the result is that all of our wealth, all of our assets, which were then valued for some value, went into the hands of a few thousand people. We're talking about tycoons, we're talking about whether that's right or wrong; unfortunately, we haven't been able to properly protect these small shareholders with legislation. Manager's ransoms should be limited, what I know, to a maximum of 10%. It's healthy here, but it's not healthy from here on out. This is not the kind of incentive that will accelerate the improvement of businesses. It would be better if ownership were more diversified and workers actually had the opportunity to manage, to participate in the profit from the ownership structure. And that would be one of those options. Also violent selling, we had a few sales to foreigners, I would mention Lek, the Ljubljana Bank, Tobacco. What did we do? They bought it, they shut it down, the KBC is leaving, we practically didn't achieve that goal as we could achieve it. And most of all, we find that this is not the right path. As an economist, he would normally welcome her as any capital, but in our specific circumstances this proved negative. Just like the managers. With the managers, we've talked a lot about this, we've even had a meeting on this subject, the fact is that all the control mechanisms have been kept secret here. And the fact is, it happened to the best of all in our state banks, which, citizens, in some way, have separated us that those who had information or were somewhere on the government and those who could get credit with the flag of certificates. We could all, we should give them to everyone, and we wouldn't get them, only those who had the privilege of doing so. And here the banks have made, and this is mainly the state bank, a big mistake, which I have repeatedly warned about, and this is the result of that. It will be very difficult for you to repay these loans now and this will result in [[...]] [[End warning sign]] , instead of investing in development, it will invest in repayment of loans. We're practically weakening ourselves. We will, of course, support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Secretary of State, Government representatives, Honourable Vice-President, colleague and colleague! I am sorry that Mr Starman was not heard in his Group of Members because I agree with his point of view. First, let me say that the Social Democrats will support this law. We think that the law is to some extent good, but we are absolutely convinced that it came too late. That's why I'd wish this government in some way "good morning!".. Today is the month of June 2008 and until the elections is less than a hundred days. Prior to this government's appearance, individual coalition parties committed themselves to address the problems of clientism, corruption, and that some values would be different from those of previous governments. As a key task, however, they predicted that policy would get out of the economy. And we saw how politics got out of the economy. The third period of privatisation has begun, for which we can read in the media that it is called "admission". If we look only at the area of management acquisitions, we can see that there were only two such management acquisitions in Slovenia before this government, the government of Janez Janša, and in this government or during this government, 26 management acquisitions were made. I must say that for most of the transactions accompanying the sale of state property, without bad news, they were made intransparency, not to say otherwise - they were made under the table. However, for Mercator's sale, Mr Janez Janša said that a mistake had been made - after he had quarreled with certain people. However, there was such a mistake that it cost us more than 200 million euros. Even worse, this mistake in Slovenia triggered capital appetites, and this reptile triggered by the Prime Minister himself, Janez Janša. It is interesting, however, that the coalition partners sought a solution in such a way that they called an extraordinary meeting and that we discussed the issue of concentration of capital in Slovenia, in companies, in "postboxes" and I do not know what else to list, but of course we know that before these sales they were "buying" themselves, they agreed and could also say "I am you - me". I must say, Your Honor, you've come too late with your solutions. Although the proposed amendments to the takeover law are welcome and we, the Social Democrats, support them, but once again I say that they have come very, very late and that unfortunately we will not have to remedy the mistakes you have made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by colleague Milan Petek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u58	Good afternoon, Vice President. Mr Secretary with his colleagues and colleagues. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we must say that we support the law or the aims of the law, which is aimed at greater protection of all shareholders, especially minority shareholders. The law reduces the threshold for which the takeover law applies to non-public companies. The LDS supports the resolution of the bill, which allows for the acquisition of major non-disclosure companies to be subject to the same rules as the shares companies included in the organised market. The LDS also supports the provision and respect of the principle of the protection of minority shareholders in major non-disclosure companies and thus guarantees them the rights already applicable to this group of shareholders in cases of acquisition of public shareholders. The imbalance in the availability of relevant information between different groups of shareholders is usually even greater in non-disclosure companies and smaller shareholders of non-disclosure companies so often do not have the necessary information to inform the decision or a firm decision to take the bid. However, we would like to point out once again that this law has been amended on 21. 6. 2006 and at that time, we tabled amendments to the LDS, which exactly what this takeover law now provides for, could have been done by then. However, the Government and Minister Vizjak, who is not here today, rejected our proposal, which, two years before this government, proposed protecting small shareholders in non-disclosure companies. Let's just look at the case of one non-public society and where the small shareholders were affected, because the government didn't want to quote our amendment at the time. Amendments to the takeover law, which are proposed so late, have allowed the sale of IBI Kranj, i.e. IBI Kranj, to be concluded without a takeover offer. If the Government had previously tabled this law or had adopted the LDS amendment at that time, it would have been possible for at least IBI shareholders to recover the takeover premium. It didn't happen, and they lost it, and they're damaged. This is why the issue of government is on the table, and what has changed in these two years to meet with this document today. Two years ago, there was no desire to protect small shareholders in non-disclosure companies or non-listed companies, now, at the end of our term, at the end of our term, that is, this century of work in the National Assembly - or if you want to, just before the elections and probably because of that - the law is changing again. What does this create? What opinion is made of this? Perhaps this change was not made so late that, at that time, it could be sold over Kad and Soda and sold out those companies that someone in this government obviously wanted to sell? It will be difficult to prove this to us, and it will be difficult to reject these findings and these doubts that arise. This is an emphasis on the adoption of this law, but not the content itself, i.e. the late decision or amendment, we believe that this is the way and this interim period was the transfer of this government and the Minister of Economy, who has made a number of bad decisions and injuries to some small shareholders. Nevertheless, in the LDS we do not intend to challenge the amendment of this law, although this issue could already be amended and settled two years ago, we will, with this delay, with the adoption of the law just before now, also supported this law in the LDS; once again, with criticism of the anaemic behaviour of the Government and its people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u59	Thank you very much. However, colleague Martin Mikolič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u60	Thank you for your word and welcome. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the new takeover proposal for the same reason as the amendment to the company law. The rule of law must provide equal opportunities for all capital owners, so in the New Slovenia Group we advocate the freedom of business and the acquisition of fair profits and not the kind we have seen in recent times in some business acquisition events and in all known tycunization. However, we must admit that management takes over the reality both in the developed world and in us. But they have many harmful consequences for righteousness, as we have seen for ourselves. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we believe that at least to the best of our ability, we will try to fight and, with similar proposals, the novels and certain measures that we have taken at the previous extraordinary meeting, at least ease them or eliminate them in the future. We are also working in the New Slovenia Group to establish a level playing field in the democratic process for all economic operators and to protect small shareholders, ensure effective operation and reduce risk capital. The law currently in force does not cover shareholders whose shares are not traded in an organised market if they had less than 250 shareholders on the last day of the year of their assessment and their capital stock was less than EUR 4 million. The amendment of the law reduces these criteria, which will contribute to greater transparency in the acquisition of non-disclosure companies. The high legal threshold for non-public companies has now led to the acquisition of companies in a manner and under conditions that did not provide adequate protection for small shareholders. Since the amendment of the law is a further step towards stabilising the economy and normalising the situation on the market, we will support the proposal of the law in the New Slovenia Group to remedy some shortcomings and, above all, protect small shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u61	Thank you very much. And colleague Willi Rezman will present his position. I'm sorry! [[...]] My colleague Kristijan Janc is still ahead of you and will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u62	Apologies, Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In addition to protecting market creditors and the transparency of the rules of the game, the protection of small shareholders is one of the essential purposes or objectives of the Takeover Act. The aim of this proposal on amendments to the law before us is to further protect them by narrowing the threshold for non-public shareholders to which the takeover law applies. We also agree with those who feel that this proposal has come too late for a number of Slovenian companies. Most Member States only have their own laws directed at public shareholders, but the specificities of the Slovenian environment require changes in the social and economic system to protect shareholders of companies whose shares are not included in the organised market in the same transparent way. It is therefore essential that the acquisition of major non-disclosure companies should also be subject to the same rules as the acquisitions of shares companies included in the organised market. This will ensure equal rights for a group of small shareholders of non-disclosure companies. Manager's ransoms, which, according to our assessment, are also morally controversial and ethically questionable, may even be in accordance with existing Slovenian legislation, as well as with European legislation, which we are responsible for both the Government and Members of the National Assembly. Obviously, the supervisory services have not carried out their mission in accordance with their respective responsibilities and in accordance with their expectations. Time may show after a number of possible affairs, such as the so-called "pure shovel" and the like, who did business legally in this part, who might not, and who will be responsible for any wrongdoing in their work. We will certainly support this bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u63	Thank you, too. He now has the floor of a colleague, Willi Rezman, who will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u64	Thank you very much again. Well, we don't need to repeat any anti-Tychoon debates now and find out who and what they took, more or less, sooner or later. We simply take this bill as something that is trying to improve legislation in this area and consider it worthy of support. It simply maintains that capital tends to tend to the power that capital tends to have a decision in its hands, in short, to be strengthened in various ways. And one way is this concentration that happens through acquisitions. In particular, when it comes to companies that are not in an organised market, there is much more chance of weaknesses happening. And it is right that those who are smaller, those who are less informed, those who do not have the first contact with new information, do not have the power to protect themselves in some way. This is what this proposal is trying to bring about, and that is why we support it. It is right to tighten some rules in order to ensure greater publicity, information, and, of course, behaviour and the possibility of making the right decisions of minority shareholders. And it is right that with audit instruments this better information, through the publication of reports, also make it possible for all those who do not have it, because they are already strong in reaching the deadline. It is estimated, however, that it was worth listening to what the Securities Market Agency has pointed out, which speaks of a few more costs, a few more administrations, and that they are not prepared at the moment, do not have all the data. And we estimate that it was also right to listen to the concerns expressed by the Chamber of Commerce, which are similar to those of the ATVP. Nevertheless, in the DeSUS Group, we assess that the proposed amendments and additions are correct so that they can be expected to provide better protection for minority shareholders, and that is why we will also support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Ambassador Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr Vice President, for the second word. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The addition of the takeover law is welcome, unfortunately he knows. It is important that the criterion in Article 4 be regulated, which has been set too low, to reduce the threshold for non-public companies, to protect all shareholders, in particular in this case smaller, minority shareholders, to align the rules of the game which will be established by this law among all shareholders, and to respect the principle of the protection of minority shareholders in two contexts. First of all, the content of Article 3 is very important, where the amended provision makes it clear that the obligation to make a takeover bid shall not be terminated until the final takeover threshold is exceeded by a successful takeover contract. However, Article 4 is also important, these discussions on the additional protection of minority shareholders by involving independent auditors who assess the appropriateness of the prices offered, draw up an appropriate report and give shareholders the opportunity to be informed. The content is so complete and in the Slovenian National Party we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the takeover Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with your presentation by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, which is expected to be half an hour after the end of the 36th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving on to 15. Point of the adopted agenda - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Economic Companies. We have 45 minutes of time available for this point. The draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the parliamentary procedure, and I therefore reiterate my word to the Secretary of State to present or further explain the draft law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The purpose of the amendment to the Company Act is mainly to implement European legislation or to implement the four directives that need to be implemented by September of this year. We did this in a package, and before us is a new law, which I will briefly present. The first two directives introduce innovations mainly in the balance sheet area. Let me give you a brief description of which: raising the criteria for grading companies by size requires the issuance of an annual statement on the management of companies in a business report or a special report. A larger innovation that will affect the business or business of shareholders has laid down the mandatory establishment of an audit committee in a public limited company. The members of the Commission shall be members of the Supervisory Board and one member shall be an accounting or audit expert. So far, this obligation has been limited to a single management system. The next directive refers to the definition of certain exceptions, and there is a need to simplify certain procedures. It is a matter of simplifying procedures that the establishment of a shareholder company with actual inputs must review one or more auditors. This will no longer be necessary with the amendment of the law, in cases where the value of papers, market securities or real deposits is very exact, clear on the market. This is the case in cases where the subject of an actual deposit is transferable securities or money market instruments and their value is defined as a weighted average of the exchange rate; where the subject of the actual deposit, other than securities and money market instruments, has already been evaluated by the auditor or where the fair value of the subject matter of the actual deposit is derived from the revised annual report. Thus, we simplify and reduce the costs of these procedures. Of course, each shareholder has the option, in accordance with the law, to re-order or evaluate these actual deposits. The novelty shall extend the period for which the Assembly of the Society may authorise the purchase of its own shares. This period is extended from 18 months to 36 months and the Directive allows this period to be 5 years, but we have not decided on a maximum period. It introduces additional protection of creditors into the Directive in the event of a reduction in the company’s subscribed capital. Creditors who have outstanding claims in the company prior to the publication of the entry decision on the reduction of basic capital may block the registration procedure with regard to the entry of this Decision. So, extra protection for creditors. However, the latter Directive is more formal and technical, since the law so far regulates simplifications in mergers and divisions of companies with the possibility of suspending a mandatory audit. Here are some other amendments that do not concern the Directives themselves. The amendment also amends the level of the auditor's liability for any damage it may cause in the performance of its work. Instead of one amount, which has so far been 150 000 euros, three amounts are being introduced for small companies, medium and large. The amounts are 150 000, 500 000 and the maximum amount for large companies - a million euros. In Article 75 of the Act, new reasons are added for the removal of the entrepreneur from the Business Register of Slovenia. More precisely, we have written, we have finalised the law in an article that allows the individual part of the company to be transferred to a new or acquired capital company. Although the existing legislation has already talked about this, it has been explicitly stated in the commentary, which is not binding. Let me just say that we've cleared up some void as to our own shares that are held by our own company in the portfolio. Article 250, or article of the law currently in force, speaks of the maximum allowance of the percentage of own shares that can be held by the company in the portfolio and, if it exceeds that 10%, which also remains with this amendment of the law, that the share must be withdrawn or withdrawn. However, a legal void arose if the management or the congregation or the supervisory council did not decide on it or did not take a decision, there was no sanction. Now with the novel, society is being punished for this offence. The proposed amendment also contains some minor corrections, which were necessary to comply with the law on the Registry of Justice, the law on the Business Register and the law on income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. The word is given by the chairman of the board of Ferry Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Committee on the Economy considered the draft law as a mother's working body in accordance with the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly following a reduced procedure. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and part of the comments was also taken into account in the amendments of the parliamentary coalition groups adopted by the Committee. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the State Council and of the opinion of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders. The representatives of the Government, the President of the All-Slovenia Association of Small Shareholders and the representative of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia participated in the debate. The discussion stressed that the Government should examine and take into account the comments and warnings of the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders in the next amendment to the Company Act. In fact, the representative of the Government said at the meeting, inter alia, that there was not enough time for a thorough examination of the many comments made at the last minute by the All-Slovenian Association. The amendments adopted are included in the amended bill and form an integral part of the report you have.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SDS Group will be given by Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u72	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Honourable Representatives of the Ministry! The aim of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Company Act, ZGD1-B, is to bring the Slovenian acquis into line with the European Union directives adopted in 2006 and 2007 and to amend the Directives in the field of company law, in particular in the balance sheet and accounting. The deadline for the implementation of those Directives shall be 2008 onwards. The draft law takes into account the principles of equal treatment of shareholders, the consistent protection of creditors, minority shareholders and shareholders, and the simplification and effectiveness of the procedures for organising and operating companies. The main solutions to the draft law relate to the implementation of the European directives into the Slovenian legal order, namely the simplification of certain institutions, the evaluation of real deposits, the acquisition and financing of own shares, the protection of creditors in the event of a reduction of the capital described. The criteria for classifying companies by size for small and medium-sized enterprises are increasing. Disclosure of off-balance sheet transactions, disclosure of transactions in which the company entered with related companies and persons. The collective responsibility of the members of the management, management and supervisory bodies of the company shall be determined with regard to the preparation and publication of the annual accounts and the annual report. The implementation of those Directives follows the objectives of the Coalition Treaty, which discuss the necessity of improving existing and new legal rules with a view to improving the competitiveness of the economy and eliminating unnecessary administrative burdens, while ensuring greater transparency and transparency of business. The proposed Act on amendments and additions to the Company Act, ZGD1-B, is in compliance with those objectives, and we will therefore support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u73	The position of the SD Group will be presented by colleague Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u74	Thank you very much again, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The novelty of the proposal for a company law, in the opinion of the proposer, namely the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, represents minor changes. The applicant has repeatedly stressed that important changes are only necessary for the transposition of the four European directives into the Slovenian legal order. It is true that the novelty amends or increases the criteria for grading companies by size, sets out mandatory reviews of actual inputs in the setting up of shareholders, amends the provisions on the maximum allowability of own shares of capital and several other changes. However, I cannot avoid more than the very contents of the political pattern of political behaviour itself. At the beginning of the term of office, the government of Janez Janša decided that the well-established system of dialogue would be terminated. The biggest evidence for this is in the area of discussion and agreement with the social partners, by rejecting the basis of the profession, not saying that after the referendums that we know are successful, and that we do not end up seeing a demonstration of workers and workers who want to search the street for the right to talk because the government was unable to talk at the table and these are just some of the evidence of wrong political patterns of behaviour. Wrong patterns of behaviour have also occurred in the adoption of this novel about companies. It is interesting how the coalition rejects proposals that do not come from the cabinet of the Prime Minister. The coalition did not want to trust the opinion of the profession that works in the Legislative and Legal Service. Of the 16 amendments proposed and the addition to the law that would make the law more consistent and professionally less controversial, only a handful of them were accepted. However, the proposed amendments to other specialised organisations have been even worse. The National Council made six amendments to the law and, as usual, rejected them without discussion and professional justification. More than 20 comments were made by the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders. At that time, the government and the coalition took a different tactic, advocated that there was too little time to study the proposals and that they could not examine all these proposals. In doing so, it is interesting that MEPs and Members of the Government have repeatedly forced us to set record in adopting laws, if I say so more domestically, to adopt important laws, strategic laws overnight. In short, the Social Democrats will not oppose the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law on Economic Companies. Nevertheless, we note that the law is not good enough, that it is not sufficient and that the Government should adopt better and excellent laws, such as citizens and citizens deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u75	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Martin Mikolič.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u76	Thanks again for saying that. In the New Slovenia Group, we see no reason not to support the proposal for a novel on companies, as we respect the acquis of the European Union and the transposition of directives into Slovenia, which facilitates the participation of companies in the European Economic Area and improves the competitiveness of the world. Slovenia has already fulfilled, to a greater extent, its obligations to comply with the legal order and its obligations with regard to the remuneration of managers imposed by the European Union. Recently, in the National Assembly and in the media, there have been a lot of talk about so-called tycoons, which are supposed to regulate the business environment, allow manipulation, concentrate capital and inadvertently rich people. We have already taken some measures that will in some way prevent certain individuals from doing so. Thus, in our view, the amendment of the novel on companies will also help to ensure consistent compliance with the laws and regulations. The novelty will provide for the mandatory disclosure of off-balance sheet transactions, transactions in which the company entered related companies, and for the collective responsibility of the management bodies of companies for financial statements and reports. Value criteria for classifying companies into small, medium and large are also increasing. In addition, in the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the innovations and improvements in areas that ensure the efficiency and competitiveness of companies and adapt them to market developments. Thus, under the new company law, "spin off" companies will also be defined, this is the separation of the company's work, assets and activities to the new company, which is wholly owned by the transmission company. In the New Slovenia Group, we also advocate and strive to establish equal conditions for all economic operators in the democratic process and to protect small shareholders, ensure their effective functioning and reduce risk capital. In order to protect creditors and prohibit any deterioration of the assets of shareholders or shareholders of companies, this amendment of the law in the New Slovenia Group will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by fellow Member Kristijan Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Say hello to everyone again! European company law is very dynamic, new regulations and directives are constantly being adopted, and even more so is the continuous amendment and complementarity of existing directives. The practice of the European Court of Justice is also very important. In 2008, the deadline for compliance with several European Union directives on company law, in particular those governing the issue of balance sheet or accounting law, will be renewed. At this same meeting, last Tuesday, we adopted a new revision law that touched on the substantive changes or implementation of directives into our legal order. Amendments to Directives or amendments proposed here do not significantly affect the concept of individual institutes, but some institutions and procedures are further defined with a view to improving the efficiency and protection of creditors and shareholders, on the one hand, and also facilitate the simplification of the implementation procedures in companies. The main solutions to the law therefore relate to the implementation of the European directives into the Slovenian legal order. In technical detail, we will not go into this presentation because there were no major concerns or difficulties on the Committee to adopt this amendment and to supplement the company law. We will therefore support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Yelen.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The fact is that economic legislation is extremely difficult and extensive and is therefore subject to several amendments when the market situation and the culture of behaviour of economic operators are constantly changing. The requirements for harmonisation of this area also come from the European Union, and it is our duty to implement them into the basic law. And so now we have this proposal for a novel. Most of the proposed provisions thus stem from the four European directives. It is not a matter of substantive substantive changes that may interfere with the basic principles of economic law, but they are equally important. It is a matter of amending several chapters of the basic law, for example, with regard to accounting, balance sheet items. The novelty is the introduction of a mandatory establishment of an audit commission in a public limited company, i.e. both in shares companies with a single and in shares companies with a two-tier management system. With regard to own shares exceeding the 10% threshold, in the current legislation it is the task of the company's management to withdraw or withdraw the surplus within three years. However, the law currently in force does not provide for sanctions for infringements of this duty, so this legal void must be filled and sanctioned. The proposal includes changes in the direction of the specific institutions and economic relations, such as the transfer of the individual part of the company of the entrepreneur to a new acquisition capital or capital company, has been specified only in the comments of the Company Act, which does not provide a legal basis for such conduct. Thus, it is now proposed to include this area in the legislative provisions, which we consider necessary by DeSUS Members to ensure the legal security of economic operators. The comments that we had in our parliamentary group in the original proposed text of the novel were saved in the context of the treatment on the home working body, and we will therefore unanimously support the amendment's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Mr Srečko Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is true that the Company Act is undergoing the reform required of us by the Directive and in some ways simplifies procedures, implements a number of EU directives, and it is also true that for such procedures Slovenia has a hearing, we are very quick to respond to the required rules of Europe and with almost none of the directives, not with this, we are not waiting or we are not longing. It is also true that the opposite side, namely the social partners, which are certainly crucial for the economy and for the new added value that is being created in Slovenia, do not have the same obedience to the Government, nor do they have the possibility that their ideas, their desires, their demands could be designed either in better production processes and thus contribute to the fair sharing of the added value that is being created; and it is also true that quite a few comments have been made on this issue on the Committee on the Economy. While some of these were taken into account by the Committee on the Economy, most of them refused to say that there was little time and that the Government could not, in fact, deepen sufficiently quickly. However, all laws that are important both for Europe and for Slovenia, according to the Government, are adopted in a fast procedure, some overnight, and it is not understandable that in fact they would not have been able to take into account the well-intentioned comments in this context. I have one general comment, and this amended law will not eliminate the possibility of abuse and will not prevent the actual greed of individuals in companies and prevent wealth. This tycunization, if we can call it that, despite the fact that this will complement the Law on Economic Companies, is likely to be adopted unanimously today, to continue with all the excitement, we are already witnessing that what is already happening in public proceedings and that no one is ashamed anymore if they own companies and so strange, I think, also the illegal way in which the state is holding its eyes, is particularly gaining personal benefit. Regrettably, the company law in some way in this context, as proposed today, is necessary, but does not complement the major shortcomings that occur in the economy. The Slovenian national party will not oppose these additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Sashi Pece will present the position of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u84	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! If anyone did, I hope that no one would blame me for asking me if any of the speakers before me knew the content of the bill that has now been drafted, all in turn, would be my answer: no. Gentlemen, not a single bill has been made! If spoken, it must not be, respectable, valued colleagues and colleagues, the aim of the bill of incorporation of EU law must not be, but must be the basic objective of improving matter. And if one of the content that talks about directives in the EU is also so-called securities financing, ladies and gentlemen, then we have - and I will have 20. 12th Last year - the only possible solution if we follow the three primary objectives of securities ownership in Slovenian companies. That's what I'm talking Firstly, we have been following or proposing to monitor the financing of business. Secondly, we followed the concept, which is so-called the most important and would prevent the exhaustion of then acquired businesses. I would like to say that the dividends that the new owners, which have reached through financial engineering, have, most often, decided to pay out abnormally high dividends for the next two, three years, depending on their contractual value with the financial sector, i.e. one of the banks that financed the case. Thirdly, in the same amendment proposal, which all Members present and Members of the National Assembly were able to vote, it was, of course, the mandate of the Securities Market Agency to prevent payment of the assumed liabilities of the acquirer on the basis of the dividends paid by the acquirer when the takeover offer was secured to pay the same securities. This amendment, under which I was signed at the time, supported 8 Members, opposed the 53 members of the National Assembly, although it pursued, ladies and gentlemen, this objective, which is now, because it is defined in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, is being pursued, and today you will all support it. So, from this address, I can say again whether you don't know today - and according to the explanations, given that you were all about this booth, you read about it, or whether you just didn't hear it at the time. But, of course, in December, it was too early to take over on the one hand, on the other hand, protection, on the third hand, the exhaustion of the acquisition of the company took place in the Slovenian space or to prevent it from being such a result as it was given - and once again, I will say, the result, the output of the vote that I specifically ordered today, the eight members of the 1990s who have the right to vote, supported by such an idea. Once again, I can say that financing, including its own shares in the title of the first, second, third or fourth Directive, is one of the consequences of this Directive in its content. But isn't it a little weird? When the government comes with a six-month delay, when we can approach a number of effective solutions, all the parliamentary groups that say "Oh, wonderful, the only mistake that is that it is so late." While we had at least one subject exposed - 20. 12. was the day of the vote, and MEPs and MPs say, "No." I think that we need to look at the first material at all, and the second time we blindly follow the government and the electoral campaign is not what people expect of us or my assessment that we should not give them - just electoral promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u85	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 39th item of the agenda. By doing so, I interrupt the agenda and I am handing it over again to Mr Pečet.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u86	Thank you to the President of the National Assembly. And we're moving on to 34. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ESTABLISHING THE SOLID HIGH SCHOOL COMPOSITION FOR INFORMATION STUDIES IN THE NEW PLACE We have 50 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft decree was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Member Ivan Grill. I give the text to the representative of the motion for a decision to further explain the bill. Mr. Grill, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u87	Mr President, Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members. The new city is today the economic centre of the south-eastern part of Slovenia and, of course, the regional centre of the future Dolenj-Belokran region. It falls into one of the more developed regions of Slovenia, as it has a very strong economic potential in many successful companies as well as in a small economy. Already in the past, and especially in this region today, we are facing a major shortage of higher education staff, especially in the field of science and technology, as well as the scientific and research work that the economy needs. This region has a very high potential for academically educated people who are employed in the economy and about 5,000 students who today are largely educated mainly at the University of Ljubljana and partly at the University of Maribor and the seaside. Unfortunately, after the completion of their studies, because of the online circumstances, many graduates do not return to this region, but work mainly where they studied. This is then reflected in staff deficits, mainly in pharmaceutical, automotive and information and natural science professions. For more than 10 years, Dolenjska or Novo mesto has been working to establish in this part of Slovenia such high schools and colleges as the economy needs and could eventually grow into a university. Unfortunately, in the past mandates, both the Government and the higher education policy have not responded to these needs and demands of the Downland municipalities and economies, and we do not have a state higher education institution in the New Town today. In 2006, the municipality of Novo mesto, as the largest municipality in this part of Slovenia, took the initiative again to launch even more intensive preparation of relevant higher education content, as well as preparation of documentation for the construction of the university campus. To this end, a university and research centre has been established, with the key task of preparing relevant higher education content and documentation that will enable the acquisition of funds for the construction of a campus where we will have a future university. All these efforts and activities are fully in line with the Resolution on National Development of Higher Education and the Resolution on National Development Programmes of the Republic of Slovenia by 2023. At the end of 2007, in cooperation with our university research centre, the Faculty of Information Studies study programme, which received positive credits from the Higher Education Council, was prepared. This programme was, of course, also the basis for Members from this part of Slovenia to submit this motion for a decree to parliamentary treatment. In addition to me, this motion was tabled by colleague Marjetka Uhan, colleague Franz Žnidaršič and colleague Kristijan Janc. All Members from this part of Slovenia have been actively involved in these efforts all the time, and we are now also the initiators for the establishment of this State Faculty. We are pleased that this proposal is also supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has given a positive opinion on this subject, so we sincerely thank her for her support on behalf of the candidates and all future students of this college. The fact that the university also has great support in the economy shows the fact that the establishment of this university is supported by the Chamber of Commerce of Dolenjska and Bela Krajina, the Regional Chamber of Commerce of Novo mesto, the Society of New Mesto students and the academic initiative, which brings together over 100 doctors of science and academics from this area. In recent years they have been the initiators of many initiatives, proposals to come from quality higher education institutions in this part of Slovenia, which will later be able to grow into a university. The objective of the economy, and of course of all of us coming from Dolenjska, is that everyone on the newly established higher education institutions will be based primarily on high quality, which will provide our graduates with employment and a high level of knowledge. I therefore, on behalf of the proposaler, assess that this motion for a decision is justified to support and we thank everyone in advance for their support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. Mr Rudolf Moge, President, has the floor to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u89	Dear Vice-President, Minister with a companion, colleague and colleague, a very nice greeting! The Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development has considered the proposal for a decree establishing an independent higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in Novi Grad, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with a first-signed Member Ivan Grill. At the meeting of the Committee, representatives of the proposed decrees, the Legislative and Legal Service and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology were present. Mr Ivan Grill, representative of the motion for a decree, said in his presentation of the decision that there is a great need for highly educated staff in Dolenjska, particularly in the technical field. For more than ten years, efforts have been made in this part of Slovenia to establish higher education institutions, which are expected to eventually grow into a university. Therefore, in 2006 the Municipality of Novo mesto took the initiative to launch intensive preparation of higher education content and to build or prepare documentation for the university campus. To this end, it has also established a university research centre, which has the task of preparing higher education content as well as documentation that will enable the acquisition of funds for the construction of a campus where a future university can be established. In 2007 a programme was prepared in cooperation with the University and Research Centre, which received positive accreditation from the Higher Education Council. This programme was also the basis for Members from Dolenjska to submit a proposal for a decree establishing the Faculty of Information Studies in New Town. The Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology said that the Government is committed to opening up higher education and making it open, which will primarily serve students as well as the needs of local communities and the development of regions. This will bring students closer to the environment and prevent brain drains and make studies more accessible and interesting to a wider number of students. From the government's visits to the regions, however, it was in the Dolenj-Belokran region that the lack of top experts could solve the most challenging problems related to the increasingly evolving economy, where the information knowledge is a daily constant both in the automotive industry and in the pharmaceutical industry, as well as in the present industry. In the debate, the members and members of the committee supported efforts to open a new college in New Town. Some, however, had doubts about the way this university was established, which is contrary to current practice, both in terms of setting up and financing it. It also raises a question as to the applicant's assessment that the establishment of this college will not require any additional financial resources, and the Government in its opinion denies this and states that there will be a reallocation within the budget for these purposes. It was also pointed out that the Government still does not have a defined network of colleges and universities in Slovenia, on the basis of which the proposed faculty would also be placed in the lower province. In this way, it would be easier to decide where new faculties or universities are to be established and what programmes are to be implemented. The Committee adopted the amendments of the Group of Members with the first-signed Mr Ivan Grill and two of its amendments. These amendments were merely a result of comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. Thus, by adopting these amendments, the decree became such that it did not need any more amendments in the current procedure. All these amendments were included in the amended proposal for a decree. The Committee therefore proposes to the National Assembly that such an amended decision be adopted by consensus, as the Committee has done. At the same time, I congratulate the students on their first public higher education organisation!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. With us is the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u91	Well-welcome, honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, in particular the proponents of this Decision! Since the beginning, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been stressing its commitment to the opening of higher education and therefore wants to make space more competitive, in particular serving the needs of the economy and local communities, of course in the interest of students. This decision brought together all these guidelines, namely, the initiative to establish an independent higher education institution, the faculty, born out of the needs of the economy, the local community, but also means progress in the development of this region, and such initiatives will not, of course, be hindered by the Government. The aim of the IT study programme in modern society is, according to the initiators, to educate graduates in basic knowledge who will not only be qualified to carry out professional but relatively routine tasks, but will systematically develop competences for dealing with more complex problems arising from specific technological operations, both economies and individuals. The second direction that I would like to highlight here is the approximation of the environment to students and thus the prevention of brain drain. In this way, studies also become more accessible and interesting to the wider class of students. As I have already pointed out at the meeting of the competent committee, from the visits of the Government across the regions, we were able to face the lack of top-notch experts in the Dolenj-Belkan region, which could solve the most challenging problems related to an ever growing economy in this region. In the end, in particular, let me express my joy at the fact that the Members of this region have joined themselves, that local initiatives, the congregation, are behind this, and that the Members, we can say, have also taken on part of the responsibility for this process that is under way in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u92	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group of Members. The position of the LDS Group is to be presented by colleague Aleš Gulič. He's not here. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Ambassador Marjetka Uhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that. A well-welcome minister with a co-worker, MPs and MPs! Let me begin by saying that the idea of establishing a university in Dolenjska is more than two decades old. For example, two new universities in Primorska have been established since this idea and desire first appeared. The reasons why higher education has not opened up to the valley region are certainly multilayered, and we all agree that so far there has never been real political will and support. In the south-eastern part of Slovenia have the headquarters of some of our most successful companies, here I have in mind mainly the pharmaceutical and automotive industry, which shows the need for highly educated personnel. Dolenjska is certainly one of the most successful economic regions with many experts, doctors of science, who teach their knowledge in Slovenian universities outside the region. Students who are educated in higher education institutions in Slovenia are no longer returning to the local region after completion of the study. Both the economy and the local environment are in harm's way here, as there are no suitable experts for highly demanding work. With the establishment of the Faculty of Information Studies, we hope to try to keep at least some quality staff in the home environment or attract prospective students from other regions. In this way, students will have the opportunity to learn in their home town, while at the same time having their rich knowledge and experience to provide professors with expertise from the home environment. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that a college with a quality study programme will use the staff from Dolenjska, is also open to others, while at the same time it will educate the staff they will employ that the economy needs. The confirmation that the programme is appropriate has also been given by the Accreditation Senate of the Higher Education Council, which was the basis for the decision to establish a university in the procedure of the four Members of the Lower House. We are aware that the adoption of this decision is a case-by-case case, but it is not only the wishes of our Members, but we are also supported by regional associations, the local community and the economy. This project was particularly supported by the Municipality of Novo mesto, which in 2006 established a public institution, the University and Research Centre, which played a key role both in the preparation of documentation for the accreditation of programmes and documentation for infrastructure works. In the New Slovenia Group, we would like to stress once again that we are not establishing colleges because of the college itself, but because of the needs of the economy and the local environment and students. This is also followed by the objective of opening up and after the competitiveness of higher education. After all, the establishment of a university also means progress in the development of the Lower Region. We hope that the adoption of this decree will be an indicator of good practice and that ideas about the University of Dolenje will already be implemented by our children as students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez Kramberger will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! Nicely greeted! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the establishment of the Faculty of Information Studies in New Town, because we believe that the development of higher education and scientific research activities is one of the more important directions of this region. The new city is already defined as a regional centre of national importance in the spatial development strategy of Slovenia. We want this to remain, so it is necessary to prevent the brain from escaping from this end of Slovenia. There are several large and medium-sized enterprises in the region, which are important economic operators. They need quality staff and highly developed research services to develop and improve their competitiveness. We believe that the establishment of a university will have a positive impact on the growth and immigration of perspective. This will give students the opportunity to stay in the region and create quality jobs, where they can later be employed as graduates. The establishment of a university in our opinion also means the arrival of various experts, which would also have a positive impact on the development of the South East region. The educational structure in this area in south-eastern Slovenia is lagging behind the Slovenian average. The average share of researchers among employees is also lagging behind. That is why we also understand and support the proposal of Members from this region and also all others who are working to set up an information study college in the New City. Our Group of Members will support this motion for a decree. Mr Vice-President, let me also express my support for the following two amendments to the resolutions, i.e. the amendments and amendments to the decision establishing the University of Primorska and also the amendment of the decision establishing and recasting the University of Maribor. This will also be supported by us in our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u96	Thank you very much. This means that you are withdrawing from the discussion at the following points. From the presentation? Your wish will be respected. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u97	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister! The National Higher Education Programme, in the context of economic and social reforms and other national strategic development documents, as well as acts such as the Lisbon Strategy, the Bologna Declaration, define the basic development objectives of the education area, which can be confirmed to be achieved through this project, which we are considering today. Demographic and economic indicators for this South-Eastern Slovenian region still show the need to establish and strengthen regional higher education innovation centres. Education institutions must be open to all interested users, so they must also approach generations of students. In short, the link between the economic environment and the academic educational system. The key role and purpose of the newly established higher education institution or the Faculty of Information Studies in Novi Grad and other existing and future local colleges and universities is to address the developmental imbalances between individual social areas and between regions. It is important to accelerate the internal flow of knowledge, competence and expertise and to ensure that this knowledge remains at home and contributes positively to the social cohesion of the region. By decentralising higher education to distribute the network of higher education institutions outside the main universities across Slovenia, we see the positiveness and advantage in the development directions of the links between the local economy and the population at the regional level. Our Group of Members will support this motion for a decree. Allow me, Mr Vice-President, because I must now conduct the meeting further to say, on behalf of the Group of Members, that it will also support both the other proposals on the University of Maribor and the University of Primorska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by the Member of the Victory Jelinčič noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. Dolenjci, Belokranjci, Suhokranjci will get their university center, which is right, right and actually last minute. In this part of Slovenia, they have long tried to reach a similar institution where they could study at a higher education institution and the proposal of four Members is appropriate, good and I think it will be difficult to find one in the National Assembly who will vote against this proposal. I think the people of Dolenjska, even more in detail than I said before, the dry landscapes and the white landscapes need this matter. Many times, the study programme was more connected to Zagreb than to Ljubljana. Thank God this stopped by the creation of a independent Slovenia, but there was no much substitute for it in Dolenjska. That is why I think for a short time: this is a matter that needs to be supported and I want this higher education institution for good, for good prosperity and for as many successful students and good experts as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u100	The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Nice greetings for me, too! The fact that there is no objection to such proposals or proposals is in fact an issue. I believe that all of us in our society want to have a knowledge-based society, and certainly every such contribution is welcome, and that is why we will certainly support it in the Lipa Group. But what's interesting in the whole story is to be mentioned. A colleague in front of me said it was actually a case of precedent. Yes, it is, I say anything is possible under this government. The Government, which has made a visit to individual regions, has three, four Members, signed a decree establishing a higher education institution, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will come to Parliament, which will support it, of course, because it is a matter of government Members. But, you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, this bill has no defined financial implications. In the motion for a decree, you wrote that this decree will have no financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, gave an opinion, which states, irrespective of the financial assessment of the applicants, which foresees that there will be no additional financial implications for the budget, we note that the financial implications will be. If the opposition had tabled such a motion for a decree, a bill, Mr Plevelj, who would normally have solicited the leadership of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, would have rejected it and withdrawn it from the parliamentary procedure. However, since this is a government proposal for a decree, it is also possible under this Government. If you allow me to conclude, there is no doubt that the establishment of a higher education institution in the New City is an important achievement, an important achievement for this government, including this Parliament. I hope and wish that the government of Janez Janša will become aware of the importance of knowledge, the importance of education and also of its own creativity in ideas. Finally, it is unacceptable that the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has allowed himself to steal intellectual property at national celebrations. This decree, or such decrees, may also help to end such behaviour by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u102	Thank you. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Grill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u103	Thank you again very much for your word. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we are pleased to see every initiative that creates new, particularly state higher education institutions in Slovenia, regardless of whether they are being submitted by the coalition MPs or by the opposition, as this allows our students to study free of charge, and in particular costs them their stay, as this brings the place of study closer to them, and this is also a key objective. With the establishment of a college that has such broad support in the economy, we will educate students who will be able to get a job immediately after completion of their studies and thus contribute to the faster development of the economy. The Faculty of Information Studies, which we adopt today, is the first university to be founded by the State. This, after all, proves that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is endeavouring to start decentralisation in the area of higher education as well, but in a way that allows the establishment of new higher education institutions where conditions are created for this purpose. This is the support of the economy, local communities, students and also appropriate infrastructure. All these conditions are in line with the proposal to set up a college for information studies, and the Group of Members will also support this proposal. We are also pleased to hear from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that a new initiative, or new proposals for accreditation, is coming from New City, two more colleges, namely the Faculty of Industrial Engineering and the Faculty of Rural Management. The creation of two more colleges will also create conditions for the establishment of a university that has been so long wanted in New Town. At the same time, we want graduates to come from these new educational institutions, colleges, universities, and universities, who will contribute with their knowledge to the development of Dolenjska and, finally, the whole of Slovenia. As I have already mentioned, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will also support the proposal for a decree establishing the first faculty in the New City. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u104	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the groups of Members, and since the amendments to the amended draft decision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the proposed act. The vote on the motion for a decree will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 36th item of the agenda. And with that, I'm breaking this point. We're moving on to 35. On the day-to-day basis, this is to be considered a proposal for a decision on amendments and amendments to the decision establishing the University of Primorska. We have 37 minutes reported for this point. The draft decree was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I give the floor to Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology Mojci Kucler Dolinar for the opening explanation of the motion for a decree. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u105	Thanks again for the word. The decree amending the decree establishing the University of Primorska proposes the transformation of Tourism - High School for Tourism Portorož University of Primorska to the Faculty of Tourism Studies Portorož - Tourism University of Primorska. The Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education also identified the fulfilment of the conditions for its transformation and adopted a positive opinion at its December 2007 meeting. In addition to this amendment, two minor amendments are proposed: the address of the head office of the Koper Faculty of Humanities Studies and the address of the head office of the Koper Institute for Natural and Technical Sciences. In accordance with the new Standard Classification Regulation, certain activities of the University of Primorsk have also been amended or harmonised, and we therefore propose that, honourable Members and Members of Parliament take the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. And President Rudolf Moge will present to us the position of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'll be brief. The Committee considered this amendment to the decree. At the same time, because this is a bilingual area, some members asked whether the blue name Turistica - written tourist, spoken tourism - would be written with the letter K. When we went to look at the Dictionary of Slovenian Book Language later, we saw that the word defines something completely different than what the university was supposed to do. As a result, it remained on behalf of the government. Another issue that we have also discussed was that the university has now transformed into a university and there have been no changes in its decision in relation to the boards of directors, since the management boards of higher schools are drawn up differently from the management boards of the faculty, so the committee has adopted a certain amendment which is included in the amended proposal for a decree and I propose that you adopt the amended proposal for a decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u108	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Member Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u109	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. A respected minister with a co-worker! It's a short content, so we'll be done with this point fast. According to the Rules of Procedure, however, the position of the groups of Members must be expressed. We will, if you will allow me, both the two decrees, both the decree on the University of Primorska and the decree on the University of Maribor, but, as regards the transformation of Tourism - the current Higher School of Tourism in Portorož, after the new Faculty of Tourism Studies, which we understand in New Slovenia, is a somewhat higher ranking - I would like to point out that the success of this school, these colleges and diplomats who will finish their studies in this university, is in the hands of those who will teach there. I think they're going to be trying to create a good cadre, students who will then be able to actually do what the college is set up to do with their diploma. Why am I saying this? For the last time we were here by Dr. Mencinger, former rector of the University, we were able to hear that diplomas can be obtained online today. So, if our universities, our colleges do this, then they do a bear service to all those who allow them to get diplomas in this way. For there are many times today that see not the paper which is written down, but, above all, that which is known and able to do. That's how today's economy works. And two more words about the decree of the University of Maribor. So we support the fact that the Faculty, on its own behalf from agriculture, also extends its programme to biosystem sciences because it is a necessity, is in line with the Bologna process. However, we are very pleased, as we are aware, that the opening of the Faculty of Agriculture in Maribor on a new location will take place on 15 September and that this problem has been resolved during this government, together with the resolution of the problem in Vrbantski, and that the procedures for the construction of the Faculty of Medicine are proceeding as planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u111	Thank you. In the Group of Members, we really do not have problems with the above-mentioned decisions - I am talking about all three of them and we will support them. It is true that it would be grateful if the higher education network had been developed somewhere before and that it would have been gradually followed by various initiatives, so that only after these initiatives were presented in one way or another would they have made accounts without a previous budget. What is important, and what is important, is what programmes will be like, what will be the study, what will be the staff, and how quality programmes will be designed. In this sense, of course, it seems positive to us that in Maribor biosystemic sciences are also being applied or agriculture in the future, information studies in New Town and the future, as I hear from other industrial studies of engineering and rural management, as we have heard today, that it will also happen in the New Town; and, of course, also through the introduction of a high-level study on tourism in Portorož. Because in this sense there will be less movement of Slovenian students into the neighbouring country, especially Italy, which has actually stimulated the development of their education, as a lot of students went to Trieste or Videm, where the studies have increased so much, even with the arrival of others. But allow me to express my support for a study, which is becoming less present in Slovenia, more and more deficient. Slovenia is in the field of artistic higher education studies on the tail of European countries. There is no new study here, but there are no new renewed programmes here, and there are also no initiatives or initiatives by Members or by the Government. Among the 27 countries there are art studies, both in music, visual arts, film and audiovisual studies on the tail, and only Romania, Poland and Hungary are behind us. Let me provide you with data: the average of students enrolled in art courses in Slovenia is 1.5% of all students, the average in Europe is 4%, in Croatia they have 2.7% of students enrolled in art colleges, in Italy 5.6%, in Ireland 10%, in Malta 10% and more. In short, it might be possible to consider in Slovenia that certain creative thinking studies that stimulate creative thinking, that even thinking that after you finish the art academy, you will not have any place to get a job is already exceeded, because other professions, as they were recently understood in terms of these very traditional and rigid forms, are emerging. In addition, our Slovenian students and students are going out to study the game, camera, screenplay, editing, jazz, in Graz, so to speak, for many years, while there is no modification of the study in Slovenia at humanist, social or artistic academics. This is obviously not enough for Slovenes and Slovenes. Moreover, a study understood by the State or the University as being very expensive, because it is indeed slightly different and emerges from this mathematical thinking, for a student of directing it takes slightly more resources than for a student of mathematics, it costs us so much that we are at the previously mentioned lowest percentage almost in the European Union. In short, if I ever wanted to support a speaker here, there would be a decree like that, and this time, of course, these three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. The decision on amendments and amendments to the decision establishing the University of Primorsk will, of course, be supported. The fact is that it is mainly about changing the name, which is actually the most important thing here and what I would like to talk about. In the Slovenian name of the Faculty of Tourism Studies Portorož we have "tourist". I want to know what "tourist" is, because we do not know that word in Slovenian. And I think it would make sense, if a college is already called that, then the Slovenian name should be used, not "tourist". So one would question the fact that ladies and gentlemen in this university really do speak Slovenian. To this end, the Italian title of this school is also used with the greatest pleasure and, on the other hand, we have in the formerly largest Slovenian city of Trsu a university where no one can think of naming that university with the Slovenian name. Go ask the Italians, see their diplomas, not even with a word of Slovenian language, but it is a Slovenian ethnic area and it is a Slovenian city! And the thing is, if nothing else, the government should take care of reciprocity on the one hand and on the other. We write "tourist," I don't know what's going to happen next, and at least "tourist" would write. This word has a meaning in the Slovenian book language and we can justify this title. But no, it looks like someone was so smart, he thought she was a tourist. It's funny why he hasn't written "turistiqa" yet, like, instead of "c" writing "q" below, he'd look even smarter. In short, it's fucking sad that, I'd say, highly educated, top-educated academic circles write such nonsense. But this is the result of probably Slovenian slapping here, there, left, right, up, down below, we must always have some master, at least some, thank God not and fight it, but others can with a nod, with a look at the ground, with a slight blush on our faces landing on all such nonsense and on the slaps that we share and stick to: if he hits you on the left face, he sets the right one. And here again comes to my mind that Cankar's "back whip is used and desired." As long as he's used to it, he still goes, 'cause then one day you burst out and you burn the one that beats you back. But the whip is willing, and that's pathology. Here is a more dangerous matter and in such matters, when we write "tourist", it also appears that some are "willed" to beat them again, a sadomasochistic note is in all of this together. Unfortunately, there's not much to change here. But maybe those who wrote this over time will ask the government to change the "c" to "k" by a new decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u114	Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u115	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This decree was drafted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And it's not true that it's just a change in name. This is an important substantive change. I believe that Members and Members, at least those who are members of the parent working body, know what is behind the letters on this paper, at least the first page of the decision. This is an important change that is reflected in the content. And as a result of this change, the university or the new university in the framework of the University of the Sea is given weight, and this weight is undoubtedly referred to as scientific research activity. This is from that period, and it may be easier for someone to remember when colleges, universities, or so - called colleges changed in our higher education area. That is why I say that this is an important substantive change, which I believe will also have positive effects on the quality of education processes and, above all, on the quality of the knowledge acquired by those students and students who will decide on new programmes or programmes that have a new faculty weight within the framework of the University of Primorsk. There is no doubt that we support the proposed amendment or the proposed decree in the Lipa Group. I have already said before, if we want to be a knowledge-based society, then we must not afford the degradation of knowledge, but the need to give knowledge a special weight and a special place. We support the proposed decree of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the Lipa Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Ms Eva Irgl has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u117	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will certainly support these proposed solutions or additions within the decision establishing the University of Primorska. Anyway, I'll be back a little bit. During this term of office, the coalition Members coming from Primorska introduced a law on the guarantee of the University of Primorska in particular because it was necessary to allow both students on the one hand and professors on the other under such conditions as they would be able to work in a good and quality manner. Especially today, when we are actively involved in the process of creating a common higher education space. And why did I mention in the beginning the guarantee of the University of Primorska. Because this increase in funding, which was approved at the time, can also result in the adoption of this decree before us today. In connection with the University of Primorsk, we also supported the proposal for a decree on the transformation of the University of Primorsk. At that time, this university was also given a university for mathematics and science and information technology. This was certainly a big step forward, since until this change, the University of Primorsk was mainly concerned with the one that covered the social and humanities fields until then. The fact is that the increase in these natural sciences, which has also taken place through this confirmation of this decree, is certainly important in the Slovenian space, as the proportion of graduates in the field of science and technology in relation to the European Union is, above all, lower than the European average. However, there are positive developments today within these issues. In Slovenia, too, the Government, even under the former Minister of Higher Education, paid particular attention to this, when students also began to be diverted more in the natural and technical direction. Today's decree, which we are dealing with here, allows for the first time that the High School for Tourism in Portorož is being transformed into the Faculty of Tourism Studies or Tourism - here I also agree with Mr Jelinčič's preface on the "tourism" part. The second amendment to this Decision is that the Faculty of Humanities Studies and the Maritime Institute for Natural and Technical Conduct are subject to a change in its seat and the last amendment within the decree is that the members of the Administrative Committee are determined to be entitled to reimbursement of the costs. These are changes and additions related to the decree of the University of Primorsk and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, and we will definitely support this decree or amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As the amendments to the amended motion for a decision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft decree. The vote on the bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 36th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 36. Point - Defence Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision reshapeing the University of Maribor. The motion for a ruling was put forward by the government in a defensive speech. I give the speech to the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology Mojci Kucler Dolinar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. The proposed decree amending the decree on the transformation of the University of Maribor proposes a change of name, namely, the Faculty of Agriculture of the University of Maribor. The new name is the Faculty of Agriculture and Biosystemic Sciences of the University of Maribor. Here too, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Higher Education identified the fulfilment of the conditions for transformation and adopted a positive opinion at its meeting last December. In accordance with the new Standard Classification Regulation, however, the activities of the University of Maribor have been amended or coordinated. We therefore propose, honourable Members and Members, that this decree be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. Mr Rudolf Moge, Chairman of the Committee, has the floor to forward the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u121	Mr. Vice President, Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Following the introduction of the Minister's presentation at the Committee's meeting, there was no hearing and we unanimously confirmed this decision without consideration, as we also propose to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. We will no doubt support this decision. However, not only supported, but I believe that the change in name is, in particular, an important step forward. The Faculty of Agriculture and Biosystem Science means that the diapason of learning subjects and the width of the curriculum will be significantly expanded. In biosystem science, everything is possible and, above all, ecology. And environmental issues today are one of the most important and hottest not only in Slovenia, Europe, but in the whole world. In this context, sonar agriculture will also be addressed. This is a sector that is expanding, which is gaining an ever-increasing number of supporters and actually adding one in science, not in knowledge, some additional knowledge and additional breadth. I hope that within the framework of biosystem sciences, the harmfulness of pesticides, insecticides, repellents and everything else will also be addressed, because we have too many of these issues, especially in Slovenia. Very nonshallantly, these toxic substances are treated, not only directly to poison organisms, but also to act on the genetic structure. The change in the environment already affects the genetic structure. However, the change caused by these toxic substances is even worse. And they usually don't even notice at the beginning, or the pharmaceutical companies and other chemical companies that produce it don't want to say the real results because of the huge profits they make in this area. Here we can also include cleaning water with biosystems. The University of Maribor has already made experiments with this and very successful attempts and it is high time that this continues. I hope that the Government has not only given this decree to change its name and that in Article 6 it will change and extend that paragraph, which is talking about what this college is doing, but will also contribute more financial resources to this area. In fact, water treatment with biosystems is actually one of the "shagger" seasons that Slovenia can use with great appeal and sell its knowledge across Europe and the world. That is why I believe that this decree urgently needs to be supported, we will support it, and not only that - I also welcome those who have proposed it, and I look forward to finding out what results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u125	Respectable present. In the parliamentary group, we are one of the few who believe that such acts, which are before us today, despite taking very little time, help us to harmonize regional development or to develop an individual, in terms of course, the "region", of a particular area much more than the current referendums and division of Slovenia into micro-units or units that are comparable to municipalities elsewhere in Slovenia. Personally, I am also one of those who believes that educational institutions, educational institutions can be as good or, most likely, much better than an economic operator, mean a long-term vision and, in the long term, the ability to integrate a particular city, a wider environment or, more recently, a whole area of the country into what makes sense or in what it makes sense to strive for, that is, knowledge, society-friendly knowledge or, in other words, a society-enhancing knowledge-enhancing society. Knowledge is one that is definitely undervalued in our country, at least in the form of a relationship between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and those who are trying to acquire knowledge. Like any one of you, you could probably talk about the impact of the material capacity of each individual or his parents to bring him closer to knowledge. The fact is that, with the above-mentioned decrees such as this today, namely the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decree recasting the University of Maribor, we contribute to new content, to new knowledge. I don't think it's important that we enrich the university or, in other words, a new redesigned university for agriculture and biosystemic science. Above all, it is important that knowledge, at least we who are the legislator, in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, allow those who are under such knowledge to receive it for the first time, at least, or to show interest, and the secondly, to try to bring it as close as possible to their stationary or narrowly remote area. So that it will not go for knowledge either abroad or in the form of day migration 100 and a few kilometers ahead. I also believe that it was in the decrees that followed us before or within the last hour and a half. But allow me to conclude. In addition to the so-called Article 6 of the Higher Education, Other Education, Complementation and Training of Scientific Research Activities, and finally of artistic activities, that value is the same as that which will or must be shown in the rise of the level, not only of the city and its surroundings in the coming period. Of course, in the Lipa Group, the decree before us today, as all Members and Members here are likely to do, will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill, on behalf of the SDS Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u127	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Maribor. In doing so, we are pleased that, in essence, the reason for amending this decree on behalf of which it actually adds, given the new content that the Faculty of Agriculture is also implementing, since this is evidence that science in this area is also increasing or that the educational process in this area is improving, which is a guarantee that we will also be getting people from this important area to gain new knowledge. We are so pleased that this decision or this proposal has taken place, and as I have already mentioned, we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Expenditure on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u129	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, Madam Minister with co-worker! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decree on the Conversion of the University of Maribor. Of course, let me say that this change that we are witnessing to now is one of those smaller and easier changes in the decision that the Faculty of Agriculture and, after a new one, for biosystemic sciences in a longer period of time has had to travel to achieve what is now important in its environment. The Faculty of Biotechnical Technology, later the Faculty of Agriculture, had to change its location, grow from a rich tradition of fruit and wine growing in the environment in which it operates. Recently or in recent decades, however, it has become more and more an important teacher of human resources for agriculture and agriculture. In the environment in which such a college works, there are many such individuals and also institutions that understand the importance of organic and integrated food production. And this area also comes from experts working at this university, trained farmers who offer the environment in which they live healthy food. And this environment also stems from institutions for certification and standardisation of integrated and organic food. All of this, therefore, is an upgrade to what the environment is supposed to provide as a substrate for the successful development of both the profession and, in particular, the science that helps to absorb new ways. As we say, we will be happy to support this decree in the Group of Social Democrats. In recent times, it has always been said that there must be joy in addition to our support for a decision. But there are two other amendments in this decree, which others in the parliamentary groups did not talk about, but they seem to me to be, or to the Social Democrats, as well as in small things, which are important in their own way. The Maribor University Library and student homes receive a new definition of activity and activity, which will be determined by the founder's consent. When we talk about the Maribor University Library, this is especially important because we discussed a lot in the Library Act in the National Assembly about the function of the University Library in Maribor as an important member of the University. Let me also point out a small but important correction in Article 4, where members of the Management Board are entitled only to reimbursement of costs and no meetings. It would be nice if, in all other activities, we could follow the example of the austerity and modesty of the highest-skilled people who run Slovenian universities. And speaking of funds, let it be said that we will also support the Social Democrats both the previous decree establishing the Faculty of New Town and the decision on the University of Primorska. How does this relate to funds? Not only the coalition, but also the opposition Members, we had our fingers in the guarantee law for the University of Primorska, because, finally, with the amendment, we introduced the right amount into the law. With regard to the Faculty of New Town, it is only right to point out that the Social Democrats, with due care for a balanced development and a network of higher education institutions, would be happy, once again, if all founders were always subject to the same conditions. We will support all three decrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body on the motion for a decree, I conclude the hearing. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, which is at 13.05. With this, I interrupt this agenda item, and I also interrupt the meeting of the National Assembly, which we will continue in half an hour, at 1:05 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u131	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the copyright law, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 1. Please explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Mrs Majda Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I would like to address at this time more Members than we have argued in the morning, even in the light of the necessity and necessity of this amendment. Some members of the coalition parties yourself have found that an amendment is necessary, and this action was reasonable. It is especially needed in the light of the fact that the video clip, it is said, is not limited to the strictly translated directive, as the Government has tried to interpret it. In fact, the government says that only those news gathered in the field of politics, current economic issues and religious issues should be limited to the clipping. You know we are also interested in other questions: science, education, culture, leisure, sports and so on. All these publications fall within the rules relating to video clipping, so to speak, short notices, media reference and so on. But if we listen to such a drastic and narrow interpretation of the directive, which always means some ceiling of the widest consensus, which is then implemented in each country according to its own taste, tradition, use and so on, then you will narrow the clippings only into policy, economy and religion. It does not make sense for this to happen, users of video clips are also public institutions, societies in the fields of culture, science, education and so on. In short, I want you to listen to this amendment. Many of you have listened to him today, it was right, and we too, in some way, the proponents, have given in to a provision that we do not like, is the right collective management of copyright. But we have given up on this because if this change is adopted - and I hope it will - then it is only for journalists and journalists who will finally get paid for their copyright. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We're voting on the amendment. There were 65 votes in favour and 65 votes in favour, 32 against 32. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There were 67 votes in favour, with 67 votes in favour, 63 against 4. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on takeovers following a reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 66 Members and Members voted 64 against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 15th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the company law after a reduced procedure. Since the Government had warned that, due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, the proposal of the law was inconsistent, the Government had prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 20, which you received at the bench. He wants to talk about the harmonisation amendment? No, no, no. Which of the Members, on behalf of the Group of Members, to discuss? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I am closing the debate, we are moving on to a decision on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 20. We're voting. 66 Members and Members voted for 60 against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 68 Members and Members voted for 63 against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 34th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision establishing an independent higher education institution of the Faculty of Information Studies in Novi Grad. As the amendments have not been tabled in the supplementary motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree. In doing so, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the draft decree would be inconsistent. We're voting. 68 Members and Members voted for 66 against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 35th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision establishing the University of Primorsk. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amendment, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decree. In doing so, I would like to inform you once again that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that the amendment proposed by the amendment would be amended as a result of the labour force. We're voting. 69 Members and Members, all in favour, against no one. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 36th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision on the Conversion of the University of Maribor. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 37th item of the agenda - this is by examining the Report of the Investigation Commission on the determination and assessment of the actual situation, which can be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme State Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the exercise of control under the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office (Official Gazette of the RS, No. 110/02 - Officially purified text), to amend legislation and other decisions in accordance with the constitutional powers of the National Assembly, by means of a proposal for a decision. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision proposed by the Council by the Commission of Inquiry. Anyone want a word on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the draft conclusions in the Group of Social Democrats. The Commission of Inquiry did not carry out its tasks in accordance with the decision to be adopted. The Commission of Inquiry has exceeded the powers which, in accordance with the work of the Commissions of Inquiry in accordance with the Law and the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation, should exercise and which interfered with the division of powers and powers between the law, the executive and the judicial branch of the Authority. Some of its conclusions, which we will not vote on, because we only vote on the proposal for conclusions, are twisted from the vine. In its report, the Commission does not provide them with any substantive basis and it is clear that they are intended solely for political account, either with the previous authority or with the previous prosecutor, which is not worthy of the work of such an important investigative commission, nor for the National Assembly. However, as regards the content of the proposed decisions, whether we adopt them or not, it totally does not matter. However, if they were worthy of the reputation of the National Assembly, they would not be accepted, not because they would all be wrong, but because they are totally unnecessary and this task can be managed by the National Assembly and Slovenian policy without these conclusions. Look, "the prosecutions need to be strengthened professionally"; we probably agree, but that's why we don't need a special decision. "According to the relevant amendments to the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code" - we do not understand whether these two, which we have just adopted, or an old one, and then the decision is meaningless and, irrespective of when the commission has finished its work, should have noted this. "Criminal policy needs to be changed" - if the proposed change is what this commission thinks it is, then I have to be against it, or else I don't know how to change it because it doesn't say anything here. And not to mention that I will run out of time, but to stress in particular that without arguments we cannot and will not support the proposal for a decision to equalise immunity, which in fact means contradiction with the Commission's requirements, because it strengthens their position with prosecutors and judges if it is levelled with Members - I don't know why, I don't understand, such a proposal is a decision - and to abolish a permanent mandate, which we also oppose.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Someone else on behalf of the Emissary Group. Yes, please, Mr Kovacic, on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President! We will support the report in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The report is based on a real basis, is objective, is balanced and, of course, we cannot agree with the position of the forerunner who argued that this is not the case. On the contrary, as President myself, I have strongly insisted that everything that has been found, either on the basis of the facts and evidence presented, also used in the report itself and nothing else, is invented, as opposed to another commission led by a representative of the parliamentary group, which was represented by my predecessor, where the commission was used to fabricate facts, for sensational statements for political purposes, and this is a report that we are considering or voting on today, is exactly the position that can serve as a model for what the commission of inquiry is supposed to look like. And, of course, if a fellow Member of my forerunner did the same, then I would [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u137	Mr Kovačič, please, on the report of this Commission [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u138	was also significantly more credible or their work. [[...]] The fact is that the work of the prosecutions after Slovenia was difficult. The fact is that a number of irregularities, shortcomings, were identified during the period 2000-2004. This is precisely what the report points out, and on this basis it also proposes conclusions resulting from this situation which indicate solutions and indicate how to avoid such a situation and, above all, political pressures and the pressure of capital on the work of the prosecution. We therefore consider the report, as well as the proposed decision, to be worthy of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Earlier, I asked if anyone else on behalf of the Group of Members, now I asked if anyone else in their own name. Before this, I ask you kindly, I warn you, it is an explanation of the voice and not of the debate. The point is perfectly clear, and we know what the commission is about. Check-in is on. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, in this case it is indeed the commission of Comrade Kovacic. As power has usurped in this committee, although I am not on other commissions, I have been critical of this work since the beginning, and of course I will not change this opinion, so I have also written a separate opinion. This thank you, the Slovenian river, is rolling under the table - what colleague Kovacic is saying today, what the commission has done. The fundamental message which should have, as in the evidence decision, and which is not ultimately defined in the conclusions, not in the conclusions, nor in the positions and conclusions, is to define in this committee, if it is already investigative, the political responsibility of the holders of individual functions, and to specify the individual indications of the holders of public functions and the facts. Tell me one point of view, one conclusion, where this public function is defined by name and surname and along with, of course, facts and evidence why we are politically burdened! And this is the fundamental and key task of these working groups, or investigative groups, resulting from the evidence. But the Commission acted the exact opposite, and I think it has even violated legislation regarding the independence of prosecutors and so on and so forth, not to mention. And she did it for two and a half years. I cannot support this report by the majority of this committee, which is from the SDS, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Before I give the next word, one more time. Please don't argue. There is no possibility of replicas in these applications, so please, explanation of vote is a fundamental issue in the application for your participation in the debate. Here you go, Mr. Aleš Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u142	Mr President! Dear fellows and fellows! We are talking about the report of the Commission of Inquiry on the findings and assessment of the actual situation, which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the Ministry of Justice and the Office of the Supreme Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, as regards the exercise of control under the law of the State Prosecutor for amending legislation and other decisions in accordance with the constitutional competences of the National Assembly by means of a proposal for a decision. Of course, this report did not bring what it wanted. Maybe Mr. Kovacic is a sample, but he must be somebody. Of course, we have not heard what positive things we have heard. Of course, there are a lot of insinuations, mudslides in the report, but there are no answers to the questions that the Commission has asked itself. In short, negative assessment; negative voice for negative assessment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u143	Thank you very much. I'm warning you again. At the end of the report, which we do not accept, but we accept the conclusions is nine indents of the conclusions. We are discussing this and there is an explanation for the vote. Mr Kovacic has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I will also support the report and the proposed decision. The fact is that the Commission of Inquiry is an investigative body which is not looking for some rather beautifying circumstances and therefore cannot, of course, be based on the position as defined in a separate opinion submitted by Mr Kumer. This position advocates the thesis as if in this 2000 - 2004 period, the prosecutions were in the best order. And that doesn't hold up the actual reality. It wasn't all right. On the contrary! The Commission has identified quite a number of shortcomings, irregularities, which are also recorded in its report and, of course, stems from this situation as it has found. This is also the very purpose of the commission of inquiry. The National Assembly was obliged to set up an investigative commission. He could not choose whether to do so or not, and I must also say that most of the conclusions adopted by the Commission were adopted unanimously. Wait a minute. A few conclusions were adopted by the committee by a vote. And even at the time of the work of this commission, no one left this commission. All members were members of the commission until the end. They acted constructively, discussed, debated, adopted conclusions, and, of course, I see no reason and no concern about the report itself and the proposed conclusions, and, of course, I will be happy to support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your effort to warn your colleagues that we are discussing and voting on conclusions and not on the report has not produced fruit. The last time we discussed the irregularity report that we are talking about today, we did not actually get any arguments at the end of the day, which is why we should support these conclusions today. We had a television show or a confrontation where Comrade Kovacič could not list one argument where the prosecution would then do something wrong, which he would not have been aware of. And today the story has come back to us; no argument, no reason is given in relation to irregularities or as an argument that any of today's conclusions could be supported. Many and enough reasons not to support these conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Aurelio Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Even if I did not follow the debate without reading the report and not knowing the background, I would still refer to or act solely on the basis of today's explanations of vote, I think that the biggest advocate of this report is the President of the Commission, Mr Kovacic, of course, does not perform his tasks. So unconvincing, so unconvincing, he was so fearful when he represented the position of the Group of Members that I think that even the one who has barely entered this Chamber cannot be persuaded. On the one hand, he praises this report, praises his work, and on the other hand, he is unable to provide one concrete proof. That's how my voice will be negative, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u149	Thank you very much. I see one hand, and Mr. Jelinčič the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support all the conclusions of this report. The basic and fundamental message of all conclusions is that the prosecution is in vain; and the fact is that it sucks. We may wonder whether the prosecution has opened or begun any proceedings against any tycoon - nothing! Have they opened any cases of fraud, which are full of them in Slovenia, under official responsibility, which should be triggered? They're not! For example, they opened a case concerning general navigation where there was an eccentric violation of a lot and abuse of the prosecution's position and so on. They didn't do anything, please! However, you demand that names and surnames be mentioned here, but you forget that Members have significantly less immunity than prosecutors. The Member may not speak by name about anyone here in the National Assembly, because we had a colleague of Praise who spoke the truth in the National Assembly and could not be held liable, but he was civilly responsible and accused by the gentleman in question, and of course the prosecution accepted the charge and the court convicted him of defaming his name. That's what can't happen to some prosecutor because he has immunity for prosecution and for the civil sphere. The MPs don't have that. Then how do you expect us to say our names here? Do you want the commission then to be on the pranger and also to be processed and punished? I think - I'd be happy to support all these conclusions!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, for 40, for 25. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 28th item of the agenda - first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Food Subsidisation in Primary Schools. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Food Subsidisation Act in Primary Schools, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration." Mr Happy Friend has applied on behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. As early as February, we had pointed to an open void when we adopted the Law on the Subsidisation of Student Nutrition, which was not systematically regulated for the primary population. At that time, in our oral speech, when presenting the views of the parliamentary group, we talked the Government into correcting this mistake. Later, the Government was also invited in writing to do so, and on 6 February, we also tabled a written parliamentary initiative. The government has a deadline. This deadline expired on 6 March and no response was given and we have waited three weeks. On March 21st, as we say, we passed this law. What's this all about? It's an emergency and an injustice that needs to be rectified. This should cost taxpayers 79 million euros, but these are interest rates, for example, for Mr Shrote, if we look more closely at his feeding book. Or, more than 600 million euros, which we spend on compensation for war victims, will be better said to locals somewhere in Argentina, which can easily be pinched off. Of course, if you confirm this, children will be left to equality in essence and the primary school world will no longer decide who is poor enough and who is not able to receive this subsidy. And remember that we have put many families in a poor social situation; that today the basket of living expenses is significantly more expensive than it was before the start of this term; and that we have as many as 250 000 on the edge of the living Slovenes and Slovenes. Thus, according to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, this law is necessary, and thus equality before the law is ensured for all those who are educated in a free manner under the Constitution of the Body, which we do not claim to be so. Administrative and technical conditions exist, since all the kitchens already have plants or all schools today, and this is no excuse. Money, as has already been said, can be found, I have said two cases and this is supposed to start being respected in 2010, so the time for appropriate budget receipts is enough. Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. 67 Members and Members, 24 in favour, 36 in favour. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the mining law, the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 2. We're voting. There were 63 votes in favour and 26 in favour. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the proposed amendment is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to the new Article 10.a. We're voting. There were 64 votes in favour and 54 against 5. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the Second reading assembly adopted the amendment or adopted the amendment to the new Article 10a of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates, do they intend to make further amendments to this article? No, no, no. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on changes and additions to the energy law - the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 17. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 20. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS-Slovak National Party to Article 23. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 38. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS to Article 23. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Zares Group to Article 23. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 42. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS, DeSUS to Article 50. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 17, 20, 23, 42 and 50 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? Excuse me, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm predicting an amendment for the third hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-24-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I'm breaking up with that point. We will continue on Thursday after the final vote. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the Fund for the financing of the decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krška Nuclear Power Plant, following an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 1. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 50. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on criminal procedure, in the framework of the regular procedure. On Tuesday 17 June 2008, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted would make the law inconsistent, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There were 64 votes in favour and 44 in favour against 16. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Dear Members and Members, two more notifications. Tuesday, 24.6.2008, he will be in the sitting room [[cage]] at 2 p.m. or 5 minutes after the conclusion of the meeting of the National Assembly of the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. And another notice. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to remove all material from the Chamber for preparation for the festive session. Thank you.
