ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today: only Bevk, Ljubo Germič, Ferry Horvat, Aurelio Juri, Dr Marko Pavliha, Miro Petek, Alojz Sok, Villa Trofenik and Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY - FIRST REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A PENALTARY LAW, IN THE FIELD OF THE Regular PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this bill, the Group of 13 and 10 Members and the first-signed Mr Mirano Potrč and Mr Jožet Tank were asked to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Minister, Dr. Lovro Sturm, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today you have a proposal for a new penal code. The proposal is based on findings and proposals from more than a decade of long debates on various judicial and other professional consultations, as well as on publications in professional literature. An important contribution in this area is also a research project on the modern direction of criminal substantive law, which has been drawn up by the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana for the Ministry of Justice. At the request of the Committee of the National Parliament for Internal Policy, a public presentation of the opinions on the proposal for a code was also made. Of these, a large majority, 70%, partly or fully supported the proposal of the Code. More importantly, the words of support have also come from practitioners who use the criminal code every day in practice. Thus, in whole or in part, the proposal was supported by representatives from a number of judges, lawyers, a representative of the prosecution and a representative of the penological profession. The proposal was also supported by representatives of the professional public, for example, representatives of the Department of Criminal Law at the Faculty of Labour of Maribor, representatives of the European Faculty of Law, as well as the Faculty of Security Sciences. A regular professor of the Faculty of Law, a member of the Department of Criminal Law, also supported the proposal. The opponents of the proposed Penal Code come mainly from the Department of Criminal Law at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana and from the Institute of Criminology. I would like to briefly present some of the innovations in the proposal for a new criminal code. In general work, I will mention only three important news. The new criminal code will allow for a greater adjustment of sanctions to the perpetrators of crimes. This will also enable a more favourable position for convicts. It is possible to end the prison sentence in prison by working for the benefit of humanitarian organisations or local communities. There is also a provision for the replacement sentence of house imprisonment for sentences imposed up to 6 months. The proposal for a new penal code provides for the imposition of a life sentence as an exceptional possibility. The Rome Statute for the Crime of Genocide, Crime against Humanity, War of Crime and Aggression provides for the penalty of life imprisonment if it is justified by the exceptional gravity of the crime and the personal circumstances of the perpetrator. We believe that this is a matter of such extreme action that Slovenia cannot fall behind the 24 countries from Europe that know such a punishment. With regard to the record of perpetrators of crimes against the sexual inviolability of children, pedophiles, paragraph 84 of the proposal provides for the possibility of providing data on deleted sentences for so-called pedophilia offences to institutions or societies entrusted to children or minors with education, education, protection or care. In this way, these institutions will be able to find out whether someone who has been convicted of such a crime has applied as a job seeker for them. However, with regard to the news in the special work, I would like to mention the following. In the case of crimes against humanity, there are three basic offences of this nature: genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, which are designed in accordance with the ratified Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court in Rome. In the case of crimes against employment and social security, the proposal specifically stresses the protection of workers' rights, with the need to mention a new crime if the employer prevents the worker from becoming pregnant at the time of employment. As a special crime, bullying in the workplace, so-called mobbing, is also sanctioned. In the case of offences against the economy, cases of abuse of the monopoly are particularly incriminating. In the case of environmental offences, the proposal covers all forms of environmental burden and destruction. Finally, let me say that we will listen very carefully to all the proposals from the public debate. The Government is prepared to listen to all proposals for any improvement or addition and to support any amendments aimed at this direction in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u4	Respectable present. Good morning or good morning. Allow me to begin with the Minister's final words. The government is ready to listen. The Minister concluded his speech with very nice words that they would listen very nicely or thoroughly to the comments of Members and Members during today's first hearing. All those who have dealt with this law in the past year, during some kind of pre-parliamentary debate, I believe that under this law we have encountered a number of shortcomings, which on the one hand is logical and possibly an excuse for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, given that it has touched on very broad topics. I would like to point out that, in the context of the Lipa Group of Members, we have addressed a letter to the Minister twice with a proposal for amendments. Not that the amendments were not taken into account or even added under the law, they were not submitted to it, i.e. to changes or to an answer. From this title, I am very pleased that the Minister has taken seriously his conclusion that they will give very careful consideration to all the proposals and comments made by Members and Members of the National Assembly, who are undoubtedly the ones who are making the content of this law and who are also law-abiding it. But all too often we go through this right as something self-evident past us, and we feel that it is only good that the Government prepares and thus gives us the power that the Constitution gives us, and in fact the direct election to the National Assembly. I would like to point out in the opening presentation some of those views of the Lipa Group on this law, which, according to our assessment, would make sense during the parliamentary debate to improve. Firstly, in the context of the proposal for the ninth chapter of the said Act, concerning the deletion of the sentence itself. I would like to point out hereafter the specific dictatorship of Article 84, i.e. the provision of data before being deleted from the criminal record. The Minister or Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I believe that this will also be the content of almost every presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups today, has repeatedly or repeatedly highlighted the so-called register, whether it be sex offenders or pedophiles in any form. According to the assessment of the Lipa Group of Members, this article or this chapter leaves out that essential question and does not answer it, namely access to this register. In Slovenia, unfortunately, we have often had cases of sexual aggression or violence committed against young people in the educational process, i.e. by individual teachers. On the other hand, given that the Minister has avoided parental insight or otherwise said that the beneficiaries would be in the register of parents, ask how much we have actually done with the government proposal. In the context of the Lipa Group, we have been following or following for years the objective of general accessibility to that register. In the first place and in the main line they have the right or should have the right to have a look at the above-mentioned register of parents of children. So the parents of children who put their children in trust or in education should be, at the time of school obligations or day-long obligations to individuals, within the framework of this process, either the school process or, more recently, the religious process. But as long as the Minister's present mentality, or within the framework of the current government, is not justified by the parents of the children, so long as, according to our assessment, this content is not relevant and represents only 30% of the successful legal struggle against this type of criminality, and in fact the most repugnant acts within our country. From this place, I have to predict that if only the Ministry does not propose to supplement that article in the form of accessibility or eligibility to criminal records, we will do so within the context of the Lip Group. From this place today and here, I ask you to help to effectively stop or approach to reduce the number of such acts, and to make such acts or at least their perpetrators as transparently as possible to society, surroundings, and finally to our country of Slovenia. I would also like to point out the shortcomings of chapter 11 in the context of the statute of limitation, chapter 12 in the context of the former amnesty in that criminal code. From this address, the question to the Minister is what prompted your decision to change the content of the said Articles 96 and 97. At the same time, I would also like to stress the right of an individual to make a decision in relation to that matter. Before doing so, allow me to point out the flaw in our assessment of Chapter 15 in the form or definition of the detour and the prescribed criminal sanctions. In the end, I will also touch chapter 19 the most, in relation to chapter 32, actions against the environment, space and animals in the context of an article on animal torture. According to our assessment, that is to say, according to the opinion of the Lip Group, they appear under the criminal code to be excessively different from each other's penal policy when the question of our crimes will be against material goods, crimes against man, crimes of regret and so on, and on the other hand, crimes of animal torture. Everyone who looked at chapter 32 and stopped at the article on animal torture and the minimum penalty at stake, as foreseen by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, was appalled by my assessment. Such a minimum proposed penalty, which even the Minister gives as an option of punishment or fine, i.e. either-or, is deemed totally unacceptable by the Group of Members. And when we talk about minimum punishment, it's set at such an altitude that it's even embarrassing to tell me from this place. I would like to touch the so-called 19th chapter, a crime against sexual inviolability. In the context of the Lip Group, in the past, whether within the mandate of 2000-2004 or not, in the current mandate, 2004-2008, we have tried twice to regulate the issue of Chapter 19 of the Penal Code, i.e. crimes against sexual inviolability. At the same time, allow me first to raise the basic question of what and in the interest of whom Members and Members should work, whether in the interest of every current government or in the interest of citizens and citizens. The answer to this question is still important at a time when there is reasonable doubt as to whether the Government of the Republic of Slovenia works in the interests of citizens and citizens. Why am I saying this? Because I would like to reinforce the content of Chapter 19 where the professional public, where the lay-out public has not been disgusted many times since 2000, and has been determined to amend Chapter 19 of the existing Penal Code. In the Lipa Group, we have twice offered you, Members and Members, to adopt amendments to the law on crimes against sexual inviolability. We have always come from a simple theory that a prison sentence must be raised for the perpetrators of crimes, whether the perpetrators of crimes against an adult, against a weak person, a sick person or, God forbid, even against a child. At some declaration level, the National Assembly, outside the debate during the parliamentary session, has repeatedly stressed that such solutions are welcome in the context of changes in the regime. However, when Members and Members met with a decision on the actual pressure on the button, whether changes would be supported or changes would be rejected, you decided, unfortunately, always Members and Members of Parliament, that you do not want harsh criminal policies against such perpetrators of crimes. Unfortunately, in the framework of the parliamentary group, which I represent, we have been re-examined or given an opinion or belief that the Government is following the content of the amendments to that law only under the European Union's tactics. When we acceded to the amendment of the Penal Code in 2000, the then Government replied that, for the first time, raising penalties for crimes against sexual inviolability would violate the system of penalties within our country and, secondly, that such a harsh criminal policy against sex offenders would be contrary to the content of the provisions prescribed or imposed on us by European Union law. We also received the same two responses to the amendment in 2006, when Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš had the authority over the above-mentioned bill. Even then, the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia rejected the law from two aspects or because of two governmental beliefs. So, for the first time - that the law of amendments that we have offered for admission would undermine the concept of a system of penalties, and for the second time - that this would be contrary to European comparable legislation. This time, however, we see that the Minister has joined the change, but I regret to point out, unfortunately, once again a change that will not in practice come about with a positive implementation of this bill. Therefore, in this context, I must say that it would be even more reasonable to raise the penalties prescribed below. Because the fact is that the case law against perpetrators of crimes within our country shows, no matter how many years ago, the trend and content that sex offenders or pedophiles are punished at the lower level of the prescribed or threatened penalty, that is to say, ranges. From this address in the Lipa Group, we are announcing another proposed amendment if the proposal does not include the Minister himself in the proposal, namely raising the lower limit. However, I would like to point out that, according to my assessment of painful knowledge or the fact that we have such a very subjective government and a ruling majority, it is only for two moments that domestic legislation in a particular area can be tackled. The first moment is the directive of the European Union, that is to say that we are changing the laws of the European Union directives, and secondly that we are transforming the legal matter in a positive direction only after the elections. I think that both procedures or both paths are wrong and not Europe, not the moment of elections should lead. When we are talking about Europe, allow the Minister, who is familiar with chapter 19, with the crime against sexual inviolability, to be in one of the European countries, that is, the Member States of the European Union, which, as a rule, when we talk to them about obligations, tax or other obligations towards our citizens, we always get under the nose in terms of argument, if this country is called France, they have introduced this in France and this is positive, so let us give it. The most frequently spoken country in addition to Germany under Slovenian law in the form of a dictatorship is France. From this title, let me tell you that for the area of sexual offences, the worst species, especially when talking about pedophiles, have also been introduced or enacted by so-called chemical castration. I believe that a number of people may be appalled at the threat of punishment, but it should be stressed that it would make sense to endanger the work of such people or pedophiles. From this title, I predict that if the Minister does not specify the 19th Chapter of the Penal Code in this area, we will also propose an amendment to you, honourable Members and Members, in the form of mandatory chemical castration for those worst offenders in Chapter 19 or pedophiles. I ask you from this city to support all three proposed changes that I have specifically mentioned in the past 16 minutes, and we have already informed the Minister twice in writing with them, but the Minister has not even responded to the above-mentioned initiatives, let alone to define the positive or negative content. As far as the bill itself, which I am stressing or repeating the Minister's words, is an extensive intervention in criminal law within our country. We have never, and will never, claim that the work done by the Ministry has not been extensive, but we can raise the issue of the quality of this work. But clearly, the minister has embarked on a major project, but a large project should not only be because of its scope, but this great work should be supported primarily by the quality of the bill's proposal. Therefore, from this title, Mr Minister or co-workers within the framework of the Minister who prepared the said law, if you follow the instructions or, otherwise, the wishes of the Lipa Group, in particular after the amendment of Chapter 19, you can also count on the support of the votes of Members of the Group, which I belong to. But the fact is, unless you do something for the next parliamentary hearing, we will try to convince Members and Members of Parliament in the form of amendments. Unfortunately, we all know, and so many of us have been taught by the legal or parliamentary practice of working in this National Assembly, that almost the only guarantor to change the individual legal provision or the legal text in its entirety is to be signed under it by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And given that we have been trained especially in the past period by the indigenous and until years ago by the government's unreceptive changes to the procedure, we can therefore expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do something in this area to protect victims of pedophilia or sexual violence. This is all too much within our country, and it is therefore right that, today, at a time when we are changing criminal law, when we are changing the role of the country in the social process or social events, we should approach this change in a radical way. Therefore, from this city, Mr Minister or government co-workers, I ask you to reflect on the changes that I have made, and above all I ask you, in addition to considering the legislative process, to approach these changes, otherwise we will have to put the amendments on our own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitrij Kovacic has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister of Cooperation! Is it true that the majority of the legal profession opposes the proposed criminal code, which we listen to many times, even this morning during this meeting? A few weeks ago, we had a public presentation of our opinions in the National Assembly. And interestingly, in this public presentation of the opinions when they were invited and had the opportunity to participate all experts and also all others interested in such a problem, the relationship was quite the opposite. A minority, a large minority of the legal profession opposed, a large majority of the professional public supported the proposed law. Of the 38 participating discussers, only 11 opposed to the proposed criminal law legislation. 26 debaters were supported by a new criminal code. One of them was kind of indefinable. So this is not true, which is constantly being tried by the opposition to launch that most of the legal profession opposes it. That's not true. On the other hand, whether the criminal code that we are talking about today is changing too quickly, which is also repeated all the time. It's hard to pin it on. The current criminal code was adopted in 1994, when the former SFRJ Criminal Law and the Republic Criminal Law of the SRS ceased to apply. So it has been more difficult since the adoption of the previous law and it is more fitting to say that we are late in the new penal law, but not premature. It is therefore time to finally prepare and adopt a new code. We support the proposed code in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. In doing so, I should mention that it is totally irrelevant whether these changes are adopted by the novel or by a new law. What's more important is the content. And I think it is better to talk about content than it is always one of the more important arguments that it would be better if we accepted the novel, not the new code. It doesn't matter. The content is important. Whether it's written in the new code or it's written in the novel. At the time of the adoption of this 1994 Penal Code, it was more or less clear that it was a transitional legislation that would need to be updated and adapted to modern democratic criminal law concepts in the world. We must be aware that the 1994 penal code was not entirely or significantly different in its concept than the existing legislation from the former Yugoslavia. It has been repeatedly said that this code has been some kind of fraud of previous criminal provisions and adapted to the fact that Slovenia has become an independent and independent state. However, the spirit and concept of this legislation from the former country, from the former socialist country and from this ideology were still preserved in this 1994 law. It is therefore time for Slovenia to become a comparable European country in the field of criminal law, which does not take on other ideological burdens. Of course, it is not about changing legislation overnight, as we often hear. Years and years, virtually since the adoption of the current Code of Criminal Procedure, are within the professional rounds of discussion on how to regulate and adapt to the current state or current situation and current criminal legislation. And that was already known when the law in force was now passed in 1994. There is also no shortage of experience in other European and non-European countries with a long-standing democratic tradition in this area. And all of this is certainly a sufficient basis for finally preparing and adopting a new penal code that will contain the necessary modern knowledge and will primarily protect the interests of all those people who do not participate in the drafting and adoption of the code, but are of the greatest public interest. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are convinced that this public interest also applies the code under consideration. And in this sense, one would expect that whether we need a new code or not, it should not be. The interest of all, including those who are critical of some of the proposed solutions, should be to adopt the Code as soon as possible. However, the adoption process should of course face opinions, different views, and thus find the best solutions. Today we are at first reading and, of course, this process is going on. And so, of course, all those critical views are worth considering. No one's ever denied it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we understand and respectfully accept the comments and proposals of individual solutions, and we do not simply reject them when it comes to concrete proposals. We can talk about them and confront them with other alternatives. For us, this is a constructive way of working and a condition for finding the best possible options in concrete matters. However, there is no way that we can accept some of the aspirations of maintaining an existing survivor if you want a socialist criminal law concept that is still largely present in the current criminal code. You know, when we talk about the profession, it's hard to say that a certain part of this profession has more weight than some other part of the profession. If this critical part of the profession relies on the concepts of Prof. Bavcon and Prof. Sheliho's circle, this is difficult to compare with the area of equity companies, when some, due to the increased capital invested, also have greater decision-making power due to multiple shares or have priority shares. It's probably not right here for this circle of criminal law experts who used to have, when I went to Law School myself, a monopoly in this area. Today, there are probably different views and it is right to face all views, and we reject monopolies in this area. And this dogmatic insistence on keeping some in Europe alive long ago really bothers us. We do not mind the criticism of individual proposed definitions, as I have already mentioned, because this is possible to continue in the discussion, to face the process further and to find the best possible solution in the final stage. Don't you agree, Mr. Potts? No, no, no. You insist on a monopolistic solution to this problem. In the course of the discussions so far, it has been repeated that Slovenia is not obliged to incorporate the provisions of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court into its legal order. These concerns have mainly arisen with regard to the issue of life imprisonment. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are of the view that it does not matter whether, as an integral part of the European Union, you are obliged to include the International Criminal Court as an integral part of the European Union, or not. It is essential that you are obliged to respect, use and implement international acts of the European Union, whether or not you have laid down their provisions in your legislation. And since that is the case, we believe that it is right to write things that we, as a country, are obliged to respect and implement in any way, into our own legislation. Although we probably should not have to do this, we would be obliged to implement European rules, but if this is the case, why not be included in our legislation. Some argument, why not, is probably not significant. This is more a matter of legislative transparency than anything else. And when we face a specific penalty for life imprisonment, as enshrined in the Rome Statute, and we ask ourselves whether we should still write this sanction in our penal code, it is totally inappropriate and misleading to talk about increasing repression. Especially if the possibility of imposing such sanctions is linked to the most serious, extreme and extreme forms of crimes committed. It's kind of an exception to an exception. And no more. Finally, I would like to point out once again that when we discuss what criminal legislation we want to have in Slovenia, let us face the fact that human security is one of the greatest values people want. And for their own safety, they expect from the country such laws as will ensure this security. And the Penal Code is one of the fundamental laws on which it depends to a large extent, and especially on its implementation, whether people feel safe or not. And let us keep this in mind in particular when we discuss and decide on this important law. We will therefore support the proposed code in the parliamentary group and thus allow the legislative process to continue as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! We are Members and Members before a very difficult and responsible task. In the relevant legislative procedure, the proposal for a new criminal code is to be evaluated, in the light of a serious consideration, based on criminal law, the lack of any of the articles with amendments would be supplemented and improved and the proposed new criminal code finally adopted. That's how it's supposed to be. But it is one of the most important laws of every democratic state, it is a law over laws. This is why democratic countries tend to be subject to gradual changes in criminal law. Any change before doing so shall be thoroughly examined, reviewed in advance in the professional public, evaluated in detail the possible consequences, in the in-depth and widest possible public debate, achieved as wide a public consensus as possible on the proposed amendments and, once adopted by law, established a reasonable "vacatio legis", a reasonable period to the date of implementation of the law, in which all competent and involved in the criminal procedure, including the judiciary, the prosecution, the prosecution, the police and the institutions empowered to carry out the criminal sanctions, could be adequately prepared and trained to implement and enforce the legal amendments adopted. Last but not least, citizens and citizens, potential perpetrators, suspects, defendants and convicts must have the time and opportunity to learn about what acts may be newly criminalized, what are the elements of these crimes and what acts or omissions they must be particularly careful to avoid in the future in order not to enter into an area prohibited, illegal and criminal. And how did the current Government and the Ministry of Justice directly address these proposed changes? A special research task commissioned and paid by the Ministry of Justice in order to determine what has been proven to be unnecessary in practice in the current criminal law, what may have been time-consuming, what, due to the changed circumstances, ratified international treaties and so on, needs to be amended, replaced, re-arranged, once this research project has not been completed, the Ministry of Justice has already ordered the three authors to prepare a completely new criminal code. Two of these were members of this special section at the Institute of Criminology of the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. The group worked in strict secrecy, even under the obligation of silence, of course for a rich fee paid out of tax money. It will be difficult to convince us that this is a reasonable waste of budgetary resources. Why should a new penal code be adopted? The applicant submits that in order to comply with the ratified conventions. This is not true, as it is possible to achieve this alignment by introducing some new crimes or by changing [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and therefore there is no need for such a radical change that we are witnessing. [[..]] Even more unusual is the argument that a new law is needed to break with the past, because of European comparability or because of compliance with the principle of legality. The current criminal code does not contain elements of totalitarian criminal law, nor does the applicant state any such. It's just an ideological word of beauty. Let us not forget that with the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Constitution and the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter, we have established new rules on the application until then of the current Yugoslav criminal law, and then, by adopting the Penal Code in 1994, we have cleared this legislation in view of its inadmissibility to the changed social order and the new legal order in Slovenia. They are also without adequate justification for the claim of non-compliance with the principle of legality. In particular, the criminal law profession, which is focused at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, is very critical of the proposed changes. If you follow at least a little more closely the professional periodicity, for example, the legal practice that is an expert magazine open to all professional dialogue, it is clear to you that a whole number of authors have come together with a number of debates on the new criminal code and that there has been only an exceptionally positive assessment of the new code, and this in relation to those individual proposals that have never been disputed. Therefore, the very imprecise and misleading statements made by the Minister of Justice, who also, on the basis of a public presentation of opinions in the National Assembly, as requested by the Group of Social Democrats, estimates that a large number of experts have supported the proposed amendments, with the Minister silently saying that these experts were individual ministers, who are covering the criminal legal aspects of these departments and who have apparently come to the public presentation of opinions to carry out their homework and orderly praise the proposed new criminal code. This could be the rest of some other past times. Only greeting telegrams were missing with thanks and thanks from working groups and local communities; this is more so, by the way. It is also misleading to point out that some colleges which have been created in recent years and which do not generally deal with criminal law have praised the proposal of this code. Not to mention that these colleges are really inadequately equipped to make credible and relevant assessments of the appropriateness of the proposed criminal legislation; this is not what they are doing. Let me point out that in the Group of Social Democrats, we do not object to this priority and to all the proposed changes. On the contrary, we would support a number of them, especially with a convincing assurance that they do not actually introduce unacceptable incoherence and nonconsistence into the criminal code or if they were at least more appropriate and justified. It is quite different, however, the question of the acceptability of amendments to the general part of the Penal Code. The general part lays down general principles and rules for the handling of all criminal cases for all types of criminal offences. Here, the applicant intervened in the basic institutes of criminal law without the necessary justification, which could in practice mean that the application of such new provisions could be problematic and uneven. It is precisely because of such changes and a number of new incriminations that the prosecutions and the courts will be faced with a higher profile, which they are not organisationally prepared for, and this will result in new judicial backlogs in the criminal court. The Minister responds to these warnings: "We estimate that the greater belongs and there will be no further backlogs." Without any argument, without specifying any specific analysis or assessment. The criminal justice profession has so far largely not supported the proposed amendments to the general part of the penal code or is quite uneven. And it is not true that they would stand against each other on the one hand of the academic profession and on the other hand the profession that uses criminal law in practice, i.e. judges, prosecutors and lawyers. There are also many objections and objections among the latter, as they have also publicly warned that there have been insufficient and in-depth debates in their professional associations and that they do not approve such hand-to-hand and radical interventions into criminal law. And if the profession is not uniform, if the Minister despises all serious and serious warnings and observations, whether we, Members and Members, will be here, who will be able to decide responsibly whether, for example, an amended institute of criminal responsibility is going to be able to accept the abolition of relative limitation periods, even though it is clear that these relative limitation deadlines force the competent authorities to deal intensively. Will Members and Members be able to decide responsibly on the abolition of an institution called 'acting of small importance', which now allows prosecutors and judges to exclude the most significant cases from judicial proceedings? This has so far made it possible to significantly relieve the courts. It interferes with the system of criminal sanctions, all safety measures of a medical nature are excluded. Is that a good solution? The profession warns that a number of traps are hidden in eliminating the treatment of unappreciative perpetrators. Much has been said so far about the introduction of life imprisonment. There are several reasons that, in our opinion, speak against the imposition of such drastic and disproportionate criminal sanctions. While the expert group, which worked under the auspices of the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, noted that it shows that it shows that we should consider the abolition of the maximum possible sanctions of 30 years in prison, a group of three at the Ministry proposed the introduction of a life sentence, even if it is misleadingly justified that this is directly directed by the Rome Statute, which later proved to be unrealistic. There are many unresolved issues regarding the rehabilitation of convicts. Although the issues of criminal record entry and the use of the data contained in this record are important issues of criminal law and should be precisely regulated in the criminal code, the applicant provides that the issue of filing data from the records will be regulated by a specific law, since it is only for the Ministry of Justice, for provisions of a procedural and administrative nature. Of course, that's not true. The profession has so far pointed out also open issues and inadequate explanations regarding the intended criminal liability of road traffic operators for infringements of road traffic regulations. This is much more than just the introduction of a criminal offence of reckless road traffic. They could also indicate what is not consistently carried out in the proposed criminal code, which is not justified, necessary or not sufficiently justified and justified. One thing's over. This is a school example of how a democratic and modern country based on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and on the rule of law of such fundamental changes in criminal law should not be caught up. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are therefore not prepared to take responsibility for such an unfortunate and harmful marriage project and therefore will not receive our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u10	Mr Vice-President, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Mr Minister and Guests from the Ministry! At the Liberal Democracy Club, we made the proposal of the law exactly. We found a number of interlocutors explaining and clarifying matters. And from the very beginning, we have also proposed that public debate be held with others on this law. There's a lot of reasons for that. One of them was that it seems to us that it is still here that the ancient religious proverb, the festival tape, is fasting slowly. This is a very important law, and the law, which concerns all citizens as well as other people who can be covered by this law or the consequences of this law, will be on the part of the perpetrators or the victims. However, it is something that we can call social return, social revenge, and at the same time the preventive effect of this law. With this team, which was preparing the text of the law, the Minister was able to say all about it nicely and always nicely, and on the other hand it proved to be in the public debate as much as it was, it is about ten years old that the 'larifari' could be discussed even further, and we are probably talking about the next one now, if we look at it this way. But everything that has been done in recent times can be considered a public debate, and it has proved to be, however, that, above all, the professional public is the one who is very receptive to the novelty of the law. The main reason is that there is no need, however, for the old law to be exemplary, even to be commended with it, is that, of course, even in the new times, they have brought some needs for change, but not in such a form as to break things up and set things new. But with Minister Sturm, it is such a habit that he actually knows, and here I will give him all the credit, he will be able to make these moves, but he will offer something acceptable to the public, and he will also lay down a number of things that are not so glamorous with lights and observations. However, the public debate revealed a lot of this, and if we go so little statistically through all these debaters, we see that in the public debate there were 23 debaters who gave out written texts, five of whom were touched by certain individual articles, that is to say 18, of which 11 were extremely critical, we can say that against such a word, the other 7 were somehow brought in from the Ministry of Justice. If we look at those who discussed and did not make contributions, there were 12 from the Ministry of Justice and they were, for example, opposed to the prominent names that represented their products, as well as the trainees. So it's a planned action, sometimes we call it a bus revolution -- it's impossible that they came on foot because it's close enough. All of this in the Liberal Democracy itself makes us believe that it is actually a work of some kind that is not very honorable. On the other hand, I am sure, given what we are getting from the Minister and from the Ministry of Justice, that it is already very difficult if a judge decides "abirato", it is said, out of some anger. Worse yet, the law itself is written out of anger, anger, hatred, and indignation. At that time, however, we need to ask ourselves whether it still makes sense to continue talking about such a text. And in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are convinced that talking about this text makes no sense. However, it still makes sense to talk about any changes to the existing criminal code. Colleagues and colleagues, thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren has the floor, on behalf of the NSI Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good day to the Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Have a nice day on your behalf and on behalf of New Slovenia! After two very negative views, you will now hear one slightly more positive attitude towards the new penal code. I think that at least in this we are united that the criminal code can be considered as one of the fundamental laws of Slovenian law. Therefore, it is not surprising to see all the responses that change so important and also sensitive topics. The Penal Code is certainly the most important pillar of the entire legal system. In a public presentation of the opinions we had a good month ago, we heard a nice number of debaters and I believe that it is difficult to find ourselves in the maze of different opinions. At the same time, in New Slovenia we were surprised that so many advocates of the new code had appeared at this presentation, and in fact few who opposed it. We also find it interesting that only a part of the academic sphere opposes the code, while those who use it most in their work, including judges, lawyers, and prosecutors, support it to a greater extent. The red thread that is drawn across the entire code is certainly the protection of human rights. Criminal law highlights the guarantee function that governs the protection of human rights and the relationship between an individual and an authority, but in addition to these rules, the rights of those who are being harmed against whom someone has done something are also the rights of those who have been harmed. Criminal law is a very sensitive field because of the forced nature of the relationship between an individual and a country, and it is difficult to tolerate frequent changes, whether in material or procedural law. On the one hand, material law is a good indicator of the values and opinions of society, and on the other, it also points to a degree of commitment to respect the principles of the rule of law. The current criminal code in some segments still contains the concept of old Yugoslav criminal law, where we know that the rule of law has not worked, at least not in the sense that we understand it today. This is at least one of the reasons why we should break tradition in Slovenia and reform material as important as criminal law. With the proposed criminal code, a new concept of criminal law will be introduced for the first time in Slovenia alone, which will focus more on the European environment than in the past. The adoption of the First Penal Code took place in the stings of three years after the adoption of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Already there have been disagreements about the regulation of the general part of the penal code that is still alive. I can say that everything in the professional public has been appearing and debated since then, and also the need to amend the code. As we have been able to understand from the media the idea of reforming the penal code did not arise once, but was gradually formed in a number of professional legal advices. The solutions reached by the distinguished experts in this area and the obligations of the International Law Treaties on the uniform regulation of criminal and legal matters were included in the proposal for a new code after a thorough analysis. In the New Slovenia Group, we have repeatedly stressed support for the reform of criminal law, because we believe that it brings a certain freshness, but in particular it clearly defines certain crimes and allows a greater possibility of adapting sanctions to perpetrators of crimes. The new penal code introduces a new concept of criminal law and is more focused on the European environment. The reform could not be implemented by amending the existing code for nomotechnical reasons, as more than two thirds of the existing articles are being amended. Certain criminal offences are being introduced that are not currently known by the current criminal code and are being updated and revised in accordance with development. Welcome news is being introduced in the field of working conditions and social security. The Penal Code specifically stresses the protection of workers' rights. The protection of workers is already offered by labour law to a large extent and the Penal Code further sanctions the most serious infringements in the field of fundamental rights, such as the failure to pay personal benefits and contributions. There is also a crime of bullying in the workplace. Mainly because of the spread of sexual care, eviction and violence in the workplace, which is referred to as mobile. However, it is also very important that a criminal offence in the field of infringements of workers' rights prevents employers from becoming pregnant and giving birth to a child at the time of their employment. Today, we are witnessing a number of cases where workers have to sign statements that they will not become pregnant during the duration of their employment. Such interventions are unacceptable interventions into human dignity and freedom. That is why we are even more supportive of the amendment of the Penal Code, which will characterize such acts as crimes. In recent times, we have also witnessed worsening traffic accidents, the cause of which is mostly too fast and unadapted driving, and alcohol. The Penal Code has, in my opinion, taken a step in the right direction with an article on reckless driving in road traffic, which I think most of you also agree here. We all feel that something has to be done. What is essential in this article is that there really is a threat to life or body. A person will be punished who, by his act which must be more serious in violation of road safety rules, would cause a dangerous situation that could lead to a traffic accident and would be life-threatening and would not have occurred due to the timely action of the other participants. We therefore welcome the new policy of the Code, which defines many forms of adversarial driving, alcoholised driving and driving under the influence of other psychoactive substances as offences in the field of public transport. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that we have already received answers to a number of open questions in the public presentation of opinions. The expert arguments were valid and they were weighty about the dilemmas exposed, and now it is the responsibility of our Members to speak soberly and thoughtfully about them. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposed text is appropriate for further use. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u14	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Members of Parliament, young visitors to the gallery are warmly welcomed! When considering and evaluating the amendment of the Criminal Code, we in the Slovenian People's Party's Group were primarily from the point of view that sufficient time should be taken for a thorough debate in such important matter and professional public debate, both by enforcement and by users of criminal law, should be included in the public debate. We therefore supported the proposal to hold a debate and a public presentation of opinions. Above all, we must create provisions of criminal law in accordance with the principles and spirit of our Slovenian Constitution. It is important to ensure that the Penal Code adequately regulates the protection of human rights, especially as regards criminal responsibility, the inviolability of human life and the freedom of expression, if it is to be shaped in the spirit of a modern democratic state and respect for the freedoms and values we have acquired through independence. Both the Constitution and the first criminal legislation were a good foundation for our legal regime, which quickly opened the door to the European Union, taking into account the essential demands and values that are the foundation of democracy and the rule of law. Although the competent ministry has led a broad public debate from which a number of proposals are expected to be included in the paper, there has been a considerable public debate on the appropriateness and even on the need for a new criminal code. Most of the controversy has taken place in public with regard to the imposition of a life sentence. In our view, it is only a purer and more legally regulated possibility of imposing a life sentence, which should also eliminate the duality that allows such deprivation of liberty through the side garden already in the applicable penal code, except that it does not refer to it as the right term. In crimes such as genocide, crimes against humanity, war crime, aggression, these are extremely serious crimes. While the legal public is divided into implementing and adapting our criminal legislation to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which we signed on 7 October 1998 and ratified in November 2001. The States Parties shall regulate differently the implementation of the Statute in their legal order. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that this question is a more philosophical question than a question that could be seen through it to increase repression. Certain offences not contained in the current Criminal Code are introduced in the current proposal and some are recast in accordance with development. The proposal for the current amendment of the Criminal Code is intended to bring some conceptual changes to the criminal law field in Slovenia, according to the proposal, since a sufficiently thorough reform of criminal law has not yet been carried out. The first criminal legislation, adopted shortly after the adoption of the rule of law, was indeed a breach of the previous provisions, which did not radically remove the traces of previous theoretical often sociological and ideologically colored sources of criminal law as a means of enforcement over the state organisation of this society. As such, the institute of acts of minor importance and the principle of the limitation of repression, which, as a remnant of the previous system, led to the identification of acts by way of outside legal assessments of social danger and not just by means of legal signs, are also regarded as such. The applicant notes in his explanation that the rapid preparation of the first novel immediately after independence was a good move, as Slovenia has thus already had a comprehensive position on its criminal law regime when Slovenia is included in the European Union. When considering the Code, it is often forgotten that more frequent crimes can also harm society as a whole. We also support from the news the continuation of the division on the ageing of prosecution and the ageing of the enforcement of criminal sanctions, leaving the distinction between relative and absolute obsolescence, which in practice caused ambiguities and difficulties in certain cases. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that certain provisions which criminalise or criminalise certain new acts which are increasingly common and which are linked to the use or abuse of new media, electronic and telecommunications means, especially the Internet, need to be formulated more precisely and precisely before the second reading of the Criminal Code. In the use of terms, we must be careful to cover all the possibilities, such as those already established in European legislation, in pronunciations, electronic communications. It should be borne in mind that only one of the tools of the world is the Internet, so it should be borne in mind that an offence can be committed, for example, via e-mail or the FTP protocol. One such act may be child pornography or, for example, illegal gambling, where the territorial achievement of legal standards needs to be defined more precisely. In addition, it is necessary to examine and think carefully and to define the provisions of the criminal offence of abuse of a monopoly or dominant position on the market in order not to violate, on the one hand, the constitutional principle of a free economic initiative and, on the other hand, to miss out on the opportunity to effectively prosecute economic crime. When incriminating infringements of competition rules, we must first resolve the fundamental question of what to incriminate. In EU Member States, this issue is very different. Moreover, if countries have already decided to incriminate themselves, in principle they will only be identified as the worst violations, such as in the UK or certain forms of the worst violations, such as in Germany. Or, as in Estonia, just unbundling the concentrations. In legal theory, however, it is the majority opinion that only the most severe infringement of competition law, such as pricing, market sharing, production restrictions, should be prosecuted. It also seems important to us to regulate the criminal and legal protection of workers in a modern and effective manner, so that the regulation of this issue will be more modern and, above all, more effective than the existing one. We support the proposed regulation in the regulation of depreciation, in order to maintain the separation between the limitation of prosecution and the limitation of the enforcement of criminal sanctions, and to avoid the distinction between relative and absolute obsolescence. In the Group of Members, we are confident that until the second reading we will take sufficient time to complete and examine the comments and therefore consider the draft as suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor, on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u16	Nice hello to you all! Dear Minister! A team of representatives of the International Press Institute visited a few days ago, which also assessed our visa strategies for the media. They estimated that there was a lack of dialogue in the Slovenian space on the issue of media policy. That was their most important message. In the last report, the Ombudsman also highlighted as a fundamental problem of Slovenian society the lack of coordination, lack of dialogue, confrontation and even proposed a law that would remedy this issue and which would force governments to assess the views it proposes earlier by citizens, civil society and professions. In short, users. And if anything bothers this government, and this evidence is huge, too much in these last three, four years, it's arrogant before arguments and it's happened and it's also happening in this law. Following the responses we have heard so far, not only the profession or, in particular, the profession, after a public presentation of opinions, regardless of the bus revolution, after reading legal practice, reading articles mainly in the press, confrontations and other exposed positions, could say that the proposal for a criminal code is a legal error. We have also heard evidence that some of them have a monopoly on criminal law, which is the case in 1994. Even today we have heard this and authorities like Professors Bavcon and Shelikh have today turned into some sort of waste stock that has lost its value. But their value is denied by disqualifying them first. That's what we heard today. Minister, last night you said in the face that you followed those who work and not those who think. I'm paraphrasing a few of you. This is said to those who will, in practice, implement and do this legislation, and that you have relied on it by, in fact, excluding experts who think about solutions in some way. At the same time, if we are faced after ten years with a change in fundamental criminal law in this way, in a way as thorough and conceptually as we are facing it, then the key and intermediate question is what has happened in our society in these ten years that it is necessary to cut so deeply under the new law and also under the new criteria of repression. The only thing that happened was that we replaced the government in 2004, but we didn't change the system, and that's very convenient. There is consensus on certain changes. This was highlighted by my speakers today, and this was also highlighted by the profession, which said that some of the changes, and I think so myself, in the end with the proposal of an enemy, non-sanctioning an enemy speech, I proposed an infringement of the existing criminal code. In short, partial interventions, with the European life and time needed changes, as well as with other law-adapted solutions. It's me. But there is no consensus for an integrated conceptual change. This Minister does not, and I am very much wondering how comments can be adapted, even though they would have been well received in second reading with amendments to the concept. And I emphasize once again, and it's not too much to hear what you may have heard. If anywhere, then criminal legislation requires a thorough consideration to introduce such conceptual changes, because criminal legislation interferes with every marriage of our society, every marriage of every individual and every activity at all. Criminal law has been and is certainly the most significant attribute of sovereignty and statehood and the legal systems that give us anything, we have also heard in the public debate, we are only pursuing the adoption of a new legal source of this species for a long time and provide sufficient time and favourable professional and social conditions so that the resulting legal act can be comprehensively lit. And we have also heard that France had 200 years in the past, of course, a far-reaching marriage without change. And that Germany had changed the law for 10 years, Switzerland 23, there had been a discussion for many years, a long time, not a few months as it is with us. And once again, with a pharmacy scale, we should achieve conceptual changes, not with stubbornness and conviction that there is only one right. For, as I say, these are fundamental changes, a new form of extreme force is envisaged, in short, an entire general part that excludes guilt, the abolition and transformation of burden-bearing institutions, the imposition of a life sentence and so on. And while we are at the same time, the need for more sanctions can also appeal to the lay public in the National Assembly for more punishment. Perhaps it is desirable to tighten criminal policy in the Slovenian legal order and introduce greater repression. The principle of as much blood as possible, as much control and punishment as possible after retirement is courteous, perhaps liked by people in distress who see a possible solution at the moment in disciplining society, but we know it is not. Political treatment of the criminal code is also dangerous, so allow me to renew those opinions of the professions that have been spoken, which have been handed down by, say, the Department of Criminal Law and warns that the new criminal code will cause long-term harm to Slovenian justice. That's not an innocent claim. In view of the extension of the proceedings, as there will be an increase in the judicial backlog, that problems will arise due to the unanimity of the case, due to the re-established creation of the foundations, due to the lack of clarity and lack of consistency of changes that judges will have to introduce, many new incriminations will increase the membership of the prosecution and in the courts and the time in which the prosecution is being pursued, we have also heard this twice. In short, practice will require the construction of foundations that will not be achieved with any course or rapid courses. No, it's been years! In short, new incriminations will bring more to the prosecution and a number of offences that are becoming a criminal offence, as the criminal code also abolishes acts of minor importance which allowed prosecutors and judges to exclude some of the smallest cases from judicial proceedings, which has greatly burdened the courts. It is not right, then, to either make such changes, or to increase confidence in the judicial system by discussing these changes. And this is a serious warning, I'm talking about the Department of Criminal Law, a serious warning from the profession, which the authors, in fact, beside the coalition, are very rare, if not the only advocates of the law, have not heard. I believe that the evidence of an increase in judicial arrears is very, very severe. And I warn you, the removal of the judicial arrears, Mr. Minister, is a priority work for this government. In short, as the violations increase or the backlog increases, human rights violations, fair and timely trial will also increase. Let me also draw attention to one more comment, perhaps more partial but important character. She was mentioned by the company of journalists, including in a public presentation of opinions. As one of the new articles, which will in practice certainly cause problems, and above all will necessarily increase the scope of the case, also provides for the introduction of a new criminal offence entitled "Public disclosure of crimes against honour and a good name", as set out in Article 166 of the proposal. It is not entirely new, but it is an extension of the responsibility of punishment in a case which has now been given only to the author of an article in the media, printed or any one that is now extended to the responsible editor. In short, according to the current criminal code, the author is primarily responsible for honour and a good name, which is done in the media or in publications. The responsible editor will also answer to the new one. What such a solution can bring: that the editors will be more obedient, more frightened, and more self - censorship at work. It would not be any longer about this threat of prosecution, which, as I say, could represent pressure that would limit freedom of expression, as a result can it. Let me mention the comment of the Comparative Law Institute, which points out that writers of laws do not know all legal areas, and not even modern electronic communications, as they do not use terminology incorrectly. They do not separate what the world’s web is, or what electronic mail is, or satisfy themselves by means of telecommunications, but not by modern or established terminology. Perhaps there was still the biggest discussion in this debate about life imprisonment, as exceptional options, of course, in the case of serious crimes. And here I agree whether I can say that we agree with those in the Group of Members who think that calls after life imprisonment are not proof of respect for life, but something else, in fact, quite the opposite. The humanistic understanding of human society is not understood as monsters that are not worth living and that do not deserve to exist at all, but we know that there are other possibilities for these people to be given the opportunity to live and to be educated. It would be a criminal offence not to mention some positive changes in the draft law and acceptable solutions are certainly linked to the issue of sanctioning mobile phonebing, which has already been introduced by labour law, with criminal sanctions related to the termination of the working relationship due to family planning, which we have also discussed extensively in labour law, and we welcome that fact that we have already done so. And also in the case of family violence sanctions, including the introduction of the possibility of humanitarian work instead of prison, as well as the punishment or sanctioning of acts against sexual inviolability. I'd like to discuss the hate speech later. It is also right that you have introduced it in accordance with European criteria in the proposal for a law. It is clear, however, that we still have some concerns about the dictatorship itself. We are afraid of other treatments, we know that we will receive it, according to the coalition will and also today, and I am sure that within a political, certainly professionally uncontrollable topic, politically, it will be difficult for the amendments to correct a concept that unfortunately is not a consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Minister. There is no doubt that the proposal for a new penal code has well upset the entire professional and general public. A number of proposals have been made to improve and supplement the text, and controversy is particularly focused on the issue of life imprisonment. However, this amendment proposes extensive changes to both the general part of the Penal Code and the specific work. The views of experts on the need for a new Penal Code are shared. Some believe that the amendments will help to speed up judicial proceedings and thus reduce judicial backlogs, strongly oppose other changes and strongly defend the view that the proposed comprehensive reform of the penal code is not necessary, since the law in force is now more appropriate and the applicant does not even state compelling reasons for such an intervention. Members of the DeSUS are convinced that such a sensitive area as criminal law certainly does not need quick, reckless and professionally controversial solutions. In particular, with regard to the fact that the opinion of the profession is shared and with regard to the introduction of some entirely new institutes, which are also comparatively and legally very rare, we are also extremely critical and skeptical in our parliamentary group until certain solutions. We estimate that such a comprehensive overhaul of such an important area as the criminal legal area, which undoubtedly allows for the most profound interference in fundamental human rights and freedoms, on the one hand, and sets limits for them and for a broad professionally in-depth fragmentation and judgment, particularly broad professional and social consensus. The fact is that the Ministry has failed to do so by proposing a drastic intervention into the law currently in force also indicates the number of amended articles both in general and in specific work. When discussing the proposal, Members of DeSUS concluded that some proposed institutes were regulated in a completely different way than other legislation, some solutions were in fact without adequate justification, and inconsistencies were observed, in some cases extremely controversial solutions. With regard to the proposed life imprisonment, we believe that it may be well accepted in public, but a number of professional research shows that it has no effect, not on the scale or the gravity of crime. There is no doubt that the proposal lacks a more complete regulation and sanctioning of economic crimes, as there is no more significant progress in the fight against economic crime. Thus, these provisions remain virtually unchanged, meaning that they will continue to apply with all weaknesses. In our Group of Members, we are critical of this proposal, as it brings scope to the current legislation of this area. But all the news doesn't deserve a critical look, and we consider certain solutions to be urgent and appropriate. And that is exactly why we support this proposal. In the hope that each of the changes in the follow-up to legal procedures will receive appropriate in-depth reflection and consideration and that shortcomings and disputed solutions will also be adequately sanctioned. It should be borne in mind that this is an act which, in addition to a bond code and a real legal code, is the most important substantive legal law in the country. Therefore, it is not necessary to repeat several times the above finding that such far-reaching changes are beneficial, if accepted with the widest repetition, with the widest possible professional, social and political consensus and with a fundamental analysis of possible systemic effects, changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u19	Thank you very much and Mr Victory Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting to everyone. The proposal for a penal code is actually expected, and it's right that we came to it. There are a number of issues that we absolutely agree with in the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members and that is why we will not oppose the adoption of this law. First of all, it's a life sentence. I think it makes sense for a life sentence to be imposed on those crimes, as set out in the Penal Code. This is said in that part, which, of course, refers to Article 80 of the Rome Statute, which is questionable. I think it would make a lot more sense to find our own excuse to institute a life sentence. It's not like we're referring to some inconsequential forms. For Article 80 of the Rome Statute provides that no provision in this part of the Statute shall affect the imposition of penalties prescribed under the domestic law of States or the application of their laws which do not provide for the penalties provided for in this Part. This is said to be an international legal obligation for the applicant to present something which is a completely undeniable political decision. But this is a discussion for maybe other frameworks. Despite all that, we support life imprisonment. Especially since we also have crimes of war crime and aggression and genocide in here. I therefore hope that this new criminal code will also result in what the Slovenian National Party has done when the prosecution has been accused of 160 Italian war criminals living in Italy who have never been brought to justice and have never been punished for their crimes during World War II over the Slovenian population. We also welcome this sentence of life imprisonment because of the fact that it also penalises the crime of aggression. Croatia also committed aggression against the Republic of Slovenia during 1991. It wasn't just the Yugoslav human army that attacked Slovenia. But Croatia, as a sovereign and independent state, has allowed the Yugoslav People's Army to attack Slovenia through its territory. This is said, under international law, the country of Croatia is an aggressor. This is what we expect from our prosecution to raise this issue. Similarly, when it comes to the penalty of life imprisonment, the penalty is when two or more of the crimes of intentional deprivation of life are committed. Here too, it would be better not to refer to the Rome Statute, but simply to say that it is a qualified form of murder, which must be duly sanctioned. It makes sense. We've seen a comparison, like if we take the Trobac, who's been cascading. When he was released, he committed one terrible crime again, and again, in prison, etc. Why do we have to look here for excuses in a Rome Statute, when we do have our own authorities, our own government, our own judicial bodies, and we can rely on our own law and our own minds. We don't have to go looking for this abroad. But there are some things I would expect in this penal code. I would certainly expect some changes, any more severe criminal sanctions for drug trafficking. Of course, we should first separate drugs from drugs and from what they call drugs. In this case we could peacefully delete marijuana from the list of drugs, because marijuana was criminalized because of the demands of the American tobacco industry and in fact, especially Slovenian cannabis makes no sense that it is deceived as a drug, but is only an industrial plant, because the content or personality of tetrahydrocanabinol is so low that it is, say, other roses that put them much closer to marijuana, Slovenian. This is said to be a more severe penalty for drug trafficking. I hope that the Ministry of Justice will do so in the continuation of the procedure. The drug trade, with so-called hard drugs, as well as these designer drugs, with pills, with various cocktails, is spreading tremendously. It is important to be aware that there is rarely any fun in Ljubljana that participants in this party do not eliminate cocaine. It's become fashionable now. And it never happens that any police would come in there because they fear that gentlemen will then sue them, and then they will again ban the publication of names because it is a violation of human rights and similar matters. The sale, sale, or personal use of drugs should also be changed. This has been introduced by the Liberal Democracy in previous mandates. I don't know why. Probably because they washed their name, because they found drugs in a lot of places, and it was the only option he said, but yes, it was for personal use, and he wasn't sanctioned because he said I was going to go treat myself. And then there were doses of heroin in his pockets, like 10 grams, which is, say, a single dose for one old user of the custom, a daily dose, while if he disassembled it, but he could sell it in 20 doses after what much money he had. It is important to know that the sale of drugs in Slovenia is increasing. Every year, more than one ton and a half of heroin is burned in Slovenia, which is terrifying. Which is why I think the Ministry needs to consider strengthening this punishment here. It should also be commended that Article 84, which speaks of the socialisation and deletion of a conviction, has one exception. This is an exception where there is no deletion of a conviction in four crimes, especially sexual abuse, paedophilia, which is what the Slovenian National Party has been working on for, I don't know, 6, 8 years and we've been asking them to be introduced and at least something has come in, even though we have proposed stricter penalties for pedophilia and pedophiles, and we have only succeeded in this government's mandate. I don't know why nobody wanted to listen before, maybe even because of some personal preference, I'm not going to go down there, but that's also possible. Thank God that this has been taken into account, and I am very glad that this has been introduced into the Penal Code. We also welcome the possibility of compensating certain fines or certain prison sentences with charity. Fine. However, it will be possible that those who have done something wrong, who have done something useful for this country, without sitting in prisons, will be able to sniff around the lower part of their backs and do nothing if we can say what I know - now we will deepen the railway in Ljubljana, why not share the shop and shovels, and let them dig. Whatever they do, they'll do, it'll be better than just sitting around and eating, drinking and resting on the state budget. Mrs. Shirca looks at me angry, but that's my thinking and I'm still standing on it. Thank you very much. Perhaps it would make sense to build an underground railway in Ljubljana, the trenches would be enough to dig, but we have prisoners in one way or another full of prisons, and perhaps those who have fled before the hand of justice from other places could, for example, perform their positive action. I'm sure something's bothering me. It bothers me that this penal code does not introduce a new article that was thrown out of the Penal Code in 1991 immediately, namely, publication. Today, everyone can betray his own homeland and not be punished and regrettably his own country's many treachery. We see how the protection of sovereignty and the protection of the independence of our country are not being done, and we see how some authorities and individuals simply leave the Slovenian territory of the aggressors to Croats. This, in my opinion, is the betrayal of the country. In all the countries in the world, there is an article in the issue, we have deleted it, the power has disappeared immediately after the independence, probably because they were afraid that they would carry out similar acts themselves and that they would not be punished and that the brotherhood and unity still remain on one such broad foundation, this article is not in, it has been deleted, and it is now not in. I think it makes sense to introduce this, perhaps it would be in this issue to state that someone sitting in a position of minister or similar position, for example the Secretary of State, cannot swear to another organisation by taking that oath before the National Assembly and perhaps this is also the reason that it is not now in this Penal Code of this Article. Otherwise, I will not praise the law, although it has a lot of positive and good solutions, but I think it would make sense for the Minister to take into account what I have just said in the debate in further drafting the law and include it in his proposal for a criminal code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Maja Zupan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In my contribution, I would like to point out a few points, namely, a very large and challenging proposal for a new criminal code, which represents one of the basic laws of our legislation. The needs for amendments and additions to the existing Penal Code, which is a combination of Yugoslav general and Slovenian special works, have been present for more than 10 years. The very changes in society are, dictate and dictate the necessary changes and additions. These changes have taken place, these are extensive, difficult, and I think it is right that the decision has been made for the new law and not just for the amendment of the existing law. Part of the professional public and part of the political public, as we see, opposes the new criminal code. I am trying to understand this in some way, because it means a new Penal Code with all its changes and innovations, even in some ways root-storage, which is still painful for some. I believe that the preparation of the new Penal Code is a very courageous act and on the other hand very difficult, because it took a lot of knowledge from different fields, and this knowledge and knowledge have actually been collected for 10 years and it is not very quickly done as some would like to show. Nor was the code prepared with a large pump, as it may have been sometimes a way of working for such great works. This does not mean that it does not bring the news that is urgently needed. I'd like to present just a few points that seem important to me. The law brings news, in particular in the area of the imposition of criminal sanctions. Judges will be able to be much more flexible in their work, as they will have more options, both in their nature, depending on the types of criminal sanctions and also on the level. The proposal also introduces a new institute of continued crime, which the old Penal Code did not know, and in fact this institution was formed through the practice of courts. The proposal of the new Penal Code also contains many new crimes, both in the field of terrorism, the abuse of biomedical research, the protection of workers' rights, then in the field of economic crime, in the field of environmental protection, and many other things. I think that the aim is to make the judiciary more effective in the field of criminal law, and I think that this new proposal also brings about. That it is comparable to the modern regulations of the countries to which we like to compare and that it introduces modern standards. There is also a lot of talk about the introduction or possibility of a life sentence. I must admit that the first time I heard that, it seemed to me quite inexhaustible or in some way a step back in the pursuit of a more humane society. However, I have considered that this is a possibility that will rarely be used, as it will only apply to serial perpetrators, in the case of genocide, crimes against humanity, and indeed in rare cases. And I believe that there is no reason for these crimes, which are truly scary and which cannot be forgotten, to be evaluated, as they are valued, for example, in other European countries where they are also in this form, and therefore they are no more repressive than some would like to attribute to our new proposal. In some ways, I understand that certain are also opposed to this possibility of a sentence of life imprisonment, but it is because of daily news about tragedies and crimes and their consequences that it is good to accept, but it is very important for citizens and citizens to be safe. And that, I think, also brings this code to a good degree. Therefore, I believe that the right solution for today is to introduce, as I have said, modern standards, introducing greater efficiency, in the final stage of even smaller judicial backlogs, and I myself will support this proposal for a new criminal code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The introductory explanation was limited to five minutes, so I had to be very brief. Now I just want to provide two more data in a very interesting debate, which I am also very interested in. The first information relates to the fact that the new criminal code no longer knows the elimination of possible crimes of minor importance. True, the penal code doesn't know that anymore. However, this does not mean that criminal law no longer knows this, because the Criminal Procedure Act introduces this possibility as a procedural element and thus we have not acquired anything in this regard. We'll say more about this under the Criminal Procedure Act. However, once again on this site, this is not a case of a fall out of criminal law, it has been passed on to the Criminal Procedure Act, where this possibility is also available to the judge in addition to the prosecutor. It sounds completely covered. Secondly, why do we, at the moment, also sharpen criminal policy in the field of crimes against the sexual inviolability of minors for so-called crimes of pedophilia? The data showed that this activity has experienced an increasing number of convictions in recent years, and at this point we have 150 convicted persons in Slovenian prisons, due to the crime of pedophilia, which is a very high number and we must respond accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! This code has aroused a lot of interest, I can say, what a lot of dust has risen, perhaps at the beginning more than the debate itself has shown. Even in the public presentation of the opinions, there was no such climate of opposition as was originally announced at the time of the presentation of this Code. It seems that those who oppose not only this code but, in general, the changes in us are louder and pay much more attention to them. It has also become a fashion for us that everyone who opposes the government gets a great deal of publicity and is, in fact, an important factor, or a hero, it is important to oppose the government, regardless of the practice showing that the changes, additions introduced by this Government are good for Slovenia. Here are the results, and it's not worth losing words about. That's right. However, there is something significant about this particular area. In view of the vision, the perception, the belief in this penal policy is that the perpetrators are more protected than the victims themselves. This is what everyone is talking about, including those who today oppose the changes in the penal code. So I'm surprised that some of the priors have turned against a change in the code. Of course, I would not hope to say whether it is a stereotype that our perpetrators are more protected than victims, but perhaps something must be involved; whether it is a code or perhaps interpretation in judicial practice, I would not hope to claim that. It is true, however, that opponents of any change in this area have also repeatedly excused, for example, the case law by not being bad, not being sufficiently defined, that new crimes may not be defined in the criminal code and that nothing can be done. Now, of course, with this new proposal, it is an opportunity to make this right. It is therefore simply not understandable why those who have always argued that our jurisprudence or certain actions in this practice are such and that there is something wrong with the law now oppose any change and say that this is not necessary to make it more slowly and similarly. At the same time, I would also like to say that I do not know how much this amended legislation will help to change the victim's relationship. As far as I can tell from my laziness, it can change. This is said to be worth doing this experiment and to take this proposal forward, until the conclusion, until adoption. If nothing else, this proposal has opened up a debate which can certainly produce a positive result. Indeed, such a debate would not have been possible, it would not have been without such a proposal for a new penal code. We would not have a debate on the subject today. For a long time there was also a position in Slovenia, or at least so we were able to hear the profession that in Slovenia we have the most advanced criminal code, that we are the most advanced in this field. At the same time, it was also said that because of the attitudes towards the perpetrators, and this, I think, was not exactly the best code, because the question is what is the best code. But the fact is, probably the one about the greater protection of the unsub than the victim is not a stereotype, but something has to be on it. Today, there is little talk about this, but some of the most violent opponents of any change are still denied any extraordinary legislation in Slovenia in this area. Of course, the new proposal is worth talking about, it is worth discussing and reaching such conclusions, which, of course, will also be based on the present time. Therefore, I simply cannot personally understand why some say that if a new penal code was adopted, judicial backlogs would increase. I just don't get it, I don't know why this would happen, unless they already know in advance that the old penal code doesn't apply or that it's not possible to capture such delicacies, which are of modern times and which are so huge and cannot be covered today. By this option maybe, but otherwise I just don't understand it, because it's similar to saying that if we rebuild the road, if we build a new one, we'll have more traffic jams. It just doesn't work. This comparison does not hold, and this is, of course, just one of the possible excuses for nothing to change and for everything to be the same. As I have already mentioned, it is also likely that one of the positive points is that certain crimes are defined more in greater detail, in order to introduce those that have come possible with the modern time brought by this modern time and which the old code could not follow, because they were not yet easy. At the same time, I would also like to mention that it bothers me very much when it comes to the profession that opposes it. The profession opposes such changes, opposes the Penal Code, opposes changes generally but priori. I find it very disturbing that they are, of course, politically defined. The profession that defines or stands for a political option is the only real profession, everything else is unprofessional, are amateurs who work, I don't know, force or whatever. That profession of ours is real, and even if it is only one individual, and if it opposes it, then it is called a profession that opposes it because it is ours and, of course, he is the only real expert, the only one saving, and all the others are amateurs, you have no idea how these things are served. I think it would be time to at least say that part of the profession is opposed or something like that, because that would be more appropriate to the actual state. It is already so that in democracy there can be several different views and even the profession can support these different views and perhaps the profession does not intend to think politically at all, but it is because it is possible for it to think more closely. But that doesn't mean that if someone supports someone and it happens to be mine, then it's the last profession and the only profession and the only profession and the only one that's saved, but everyone else, but even if most people have a different opinion, they don't know anything about it and they barely have the right to talk, they don't have the right to think that anything would change or anything like that. Such times I think are over, and they are already in the professional circles, and any of them, especially in the legal profession, because, finally, lawyers are bragging: two lawyers - three opinions. And also in other areas it is so, even in the technical field there are many ways that not everything is 'exact', not always five times twenty-five. There are different interpretations, different views, and so is the case. We gather these different views, different views, and then we can come to the right conclusions, and I therefore think that such a debate is welcome, that it is right that it has opened. And, of course, I support such a proposal. This does not, of course, mean that the proposal put forward cannot be changed so that it should not change. It is likely that good proposals will move forward with time, and, of course, I also think that we are in the 21st century, that we will also be able to cover those anomalies that appear in society, that there will be no further excuses: legislation is bad, the legislator has failed to take this into account, that we will also take this into account in this law, and that we will eventually accept it, that there will be a truly appropriate code that will not be able to protect anyone in particular, but who will be specifically distinguished, as one that needs to be looked after in particular. I think these times are over, and that is why, of course, I support this proposal. However, I will also support if there are good proposals that will go in the direction of a good proposal, but not that something is stalling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The debate on the Penal Code is never just a debate on how to classify crimes and what penalties should be imposed on them. It's never just a technical and professional debate. The debate on the Penal Code interferes with the very concept of justice in society, in the situation between an individual and a country, answers the question of what the social community should do with people who violate certain basic, obvious rules and even attack or take away, even as much as possible, that is human life and attack the body. And this debate never actually stops, so Mr Minister, it is not just the last 13 years, it takes me to remember, in one way or another. Sometimes more in the background, sometimes more in the foreground. The debate on control and punishment was one of the main points of social and civil movement in the 1980s. It is true, however, that the Minister has been more involved in these matters than most of those who today support these changes. The debate on civility against militarisation, on what the state can and can do, and what it cannot do, even if it could work, have been at the core of these discussions. Thus, the issue of the humanisation of criminal policy was also at the heart of the debate. The degree of this humanisation, as we said in the pronouns, was an indicator of democratic change. In view of this, the socialist regimes were clearly known under legal penalties. And more than this punishment has been humanised, there is more evidence that something is changing that the country is becoming more democratic. Therefore, it is not true that this law, the Penal Code, cleanses the backdrop of the old regime. On the contrary, we reintroduce these same legacy of the old regime into the Penal Code. And it's a typical case, the imposition of a life sentence. The Minister reacts extremely easily to the apparent imposition of a life sentence. Other democratic countries also know the life sentence. The Minister should know that this statement is invalid or invalid - it is an argument by example or by example and should not be used at all, we delete it immediately, it does not apply, we write it off. For I ask you, not only him, "If a thousand people jump into the abyss, will you also jump and justify this leap, that others have jumped?" It doesn't make sense. Each country, we know, has its own history of criminal law, punishment and its reasons. And as for other countries, we must say, as a member of the National Assembly, I cannot decide on the penal code of Germany, neither Italy nor Spain, nor any other country, not to speak Iran, etc. But we can decide on the penal code of this country and decide on it. And a second time. I found no rational answer to the substantive question of life imprisonment. Did the minister ever say that life imprisonment would save only one human life that had been violently taken so far? Can he say that? I would be very happy if I could argue because I would find an argument that maybe I would support it. Whether such punishments will reduce the number of such acts, such as violence against man, on life, taking life, and violence against the body. No, no, no. On the contrary. The analysis shows exactly the opposite. You have a death sentence in the United States. This obviously does not contribute to the reduction of killings and killings, but a senseless game of cruelty between perpetrators, criminals and the country on the other hand continues. And these cruelty, these pointless games have been abandoned by some countries, one way or another. And substantive discussions, there are no substantive reasons. And even more interesting, in some respects, even a comical debate is that we have to impose a life sentence on the basis of the provisions of the Rome Statute, which is supposed to be for genocide and similar things. Here I must commend my political opponent, whom I do not agree with in anything, the victory of Jelinčič, who in the defense of the life sentence clearly said: "If we introduce it, we introduce it for reasons for which we choose not on the basis of any reference and alibi to some Roman status." I absolutely disagree with his content of the arguments, but at least his position is fair, at least it's correct, at least it's credible in his fault, if you want. Yesterday, on television, we heard an interpretation by a former judge who confirmed that the Rome Statute was progressing towards the previous situation, as it required the signatory countries to renounce the death penalty. To this end, I fully agree with his interpretation. But not with the continuation: because we do not have a life sentence, so we do not respect the Rome Statute. This statement is grotesque in its consequences - that we must protect ourselves with the Rome Statute in order to prevent ourselves from imposing the death penalty. That's really grotesque. And if you continue with such arguments, you will be cut off not only by the expert, but by some other public. As the minister pointed out, the legal and philosophical basis for life imprisonment was handed down by the professor, under the terms of the term, today Marxist philosophy, which is well known by both me and Professor Sturm. An interesting text, he clearly set himself up as a philosopher on the side of the retributive concept of punishment - punishment must be a just reparation for an act, not contrary to it, as the real utilitarian and socialization rule says. I won't talk about it, maybe later, if there's any more time. In its logical and substantive consequences, let us be, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, on a clear, retributive principle, if carried out consistently, the death penalty is a death penalty requirement. Only a retributive principle allows life to be punished with life and so on. Here, too, we see from the very debate of this philosopher that there are no ethical or other reasons against the death penalty, let's say that the state has no right to take life, such as interfering with life or anything like that, but lists practical reasons, not ethical, not moral, but practical. The first is, of course, that you cannot correct your punishment because life, once taken, cannot be restored. In short, this is a practical reason that we can limit to taking a life only where a hundred times is proven and so on. And another practical reason is that in civilized countries, we would no longer find a slave who would be willing to do so. This last one's even attracted to hair. In order not to go too far, I will not look around this hall, but in Slovenia we would certainly find such a person or people who would know the function of the slave and would gladly use it anyway. So, in fact, in these reasons, if we go for philosophical and legal reasons and ethical reasons, we will actually see that we are embarking on a path that is not well thought out, which is not substantively determined, which has not really been discussed. Let me finish the fact, as I began, with the state of the spirit. There was a swing between freedom and repression. The values that have led to democratic transformation in Eastern Europe, the values of liberal tradition, liberalism, human rights, freedoms, human behavior, including those who have committed crimes, are forgotten or turned into their own contradiction. We are here today, and we will decide on this in this penal code. When there is another debate, I will have a number of comments on the individual articles and so on. We will be able to talk about whether we agree in principle on a redistributive principle and why, if we dock, we do not go in sequences until the end, why you are just before we can say the last word, we will close our eyes and step back, why you do not also have this freedom and ultimately what all of this means for a broader social context and the relationship between a person and a country. The work can be resocialisation, the prison can be resocialisation, colleague Jelinčič also talked about ending up a little more humorous, it is true, the big projects are ahead of us not only the construction of railways and the like, and in fact, if you respect his position, I fear that the work for digging the tunnels of the railway in Ljubljana and the subways will even result in the lack of prisoners under the new penal code, perhaps further strengthening certain provisions from this point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u30	Thank you. On the many things that have just been said, I will begin my debate. My basic point of view begins with the question of what has happened in Slovenia in such an essential new way that the Penal Code should be rewritten and, according to the Minister's statements, supplemented or amended in a way that has lasted for 14 years. This has been said since the recast of the Penal Code, in this country there has been a public debate resulting from the current version of the Penal Code. I strongly object to this because it's not true. The second thesis is that in the Penal Code, the rest of the previous system should be eliminated. I would ask myself how it is possible if we had such a bad criminal code that Slovenia was even aware of a country with a sufficiently democratic system and adequate protection of human rights that it could start a process to bring the European Union closer, that it was finally adopted in the European Union after the adoption of the European acquis. What was it, then, in this criminal code of ours, that we should now start and put things in perspective? And now there's been some terrible manipulation. I'm sorry the Minister of Justice isn't here because I'm going to build on his deception and the creation of real data. I mentioned the first one, 14 years of public debate. The second is that 70% of the participants in the public presentation supported the draft text that we are discussing today. Let's take a look at things in a little bit more detail. He has provoked me enough with this statement, because, finally, I have also attended a good part of the public presentation of opinions, and I must say that deception is really unacceptable for the Justice Minister. Because I don't know where he's going to put those individuals who, in a public presentation of their opinions, defined themselves only to individual small solutions or not small, important solutions to the individual article, but didn't talk about the entire criminal code. Where he'll put those who haven't even told you how they look at the Penal Code. It is true, however, that many who, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice or the authors of the Penal Code, defended it. And I have not heard any real information about how many top criminal law experts there are in Slovenia. But I heard the report that the Law School has only one regular-time professor on criminal law. But I have heard many well-established legal experts in criminal law and very prominent human rights fighters who have opposed the way in which we are currently witnessing a change in the penal code. Of course, I'd stop here and just say one more thing. If the Penal Code is really so well prepared and is the result of long-term reflections, then why is there no comparison in the comparative review of the Penal Code for those changes to the Penal Code that are most drastic and which polarize the professional public? There is no comparative review as regards the introduction of life imprisonment. All we hear is that only three countries in the European Union do not have a life sentence. Does this mean that we need to reintroduce it? A country that is a young country that has a new constitution that can be modelled on increased sensitivity to respect for life, to respect human rights, will now resort to increasing repression. I have already witnessed debates in the previous term on whether, by tightening the penalties, we can achieve a more human society. However, I will not refer to the previous ones, but I will refer to the current minister of this government, who, at the time of the entry into force of a law that also dramatically increases and tightens penalties, said in a public statement that more severe penalties have a favourable effect for a very short period of time. That it was Minister Mate, you must have figured it out yourself. What effect can we then have on all that is in this marriage? Will the implementation of the Penal Code, which is challenged at conceptual level by prominent experts, increase confidence in the rule of law? If you go to see online - transition countries are not exactly among those in which trust in legal systems and the functioning of the rule of law would reflect very high confidence, and Slovenia is no exception. But it's better than the Baltic States or any other country. Will what is a particular problem in this country really be reduced? This is a long-term trial. If the Penal Code enters into force as quickly as forecast, where will the time be for training to apply the Penal Code? I don't see him. What about regulating things in other laws? The Criminal Procedure Act, the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions Act, the Juvenile Offences Act, are only three laws that are supposed to make or adopt certain decisions that have been infringed or transposed, abandoned or otherwise adopted by the Penal Code. And if anything in the Penal Code has been approved, it is certainly what has been found in the specific laws of the past, both in the Domestic Violence Prevention Act, the Labour Relations Act, the Inviolability Act. It is said that the Penal Code will only take on criminal sanctions for what others have already sanctioned, or what other laws have already introduced. And here I'd like to argue with those you see as "mobbing" as a reminder. It is not true, in the Labour Relations Act, the word torture is used as a general term for a foreign'mobbing' does not cover everything, but I would like in particular to experience that legal practice would confirm what is enshrined in the Penal Code, which will undoubtedly be adopted because its coalition so enthusiastically applauds and is delighted at all that is contained in the Penal Code. I am a little less impressed with him, especially since it was initially said that life imprisonment must be enforced in order to comply with the Rome Statute. Well, one of the candidates has already changed his mind. If the debate lasted longer, what else could be changed in the Penal Code, of course, for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! Many words were spoken on the proposal of the Penal Code. I'll take the stones out of the mosaic. You know, in life, if you can't do good to someone, you don't have to do bad. However, we cannot today, colleagues and colleagues, speak against what we have always demanded. I am convinced by this law that I will not oppose it in the following elements, I will be very specific. Reimbursement of imprisonment and fines for charitable purposes. Reliable and supportive. Life imprisonment. I absolutely support you. You know, God forbid anyone put himself in the skin of a man who had suffered one, two, three murders, murders, whatever the legal profession calls it, and would have been given five years in prison by being released after three years of fine conduct. Put yourself in the shower. We have to work sometimes, not sometimes, when necessary, repressively. Nice or ugly, it's no different. For murder, murder, we can't give, we can't judge that someone is mentally ill. Above all, I support this law, because of what has been happening all the time: women who have been employed and who have become pregnant have been sent on the road by employers. That was first-class shit. And thank God this law prevents it. There's something else I could say. About journalistic ethics and responsibility, as my distinguished colleague, who I truly respect, Mrs Majda Shirca, spoke about. You know, the journalist writes Bogdan Barovich that he's supposed to be doing something with someone. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] There's no truth there, but no one's answering. [[...]] Suppose, the judiciary says, this is not evidence, so such a law and I personally and as a member of the Slovenian National Party are needed. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u34	Good-bye to all of you. We can happily talk about the law that is before us today. For before us is a new proposal of the Penal Code, which is significantly better than the previous protection of employees, significantly better than what has been done to protect our children from the worst crimes, including pedophiles, protecting our environment. For the first time, he is criminalizing some of the acts that we find to be self-sufficient, such as torture, and he has many other advantages when compared with the legislation we have so far. In fact, the question arises why some take him with so much resistance to a knife, even if we let go of the fact that the elections are coming and that the opposition is appropriately sharpening its position. The answer is simple, but it requires that we first define two things that are very little talked about in Slovenia. One is judicial policy, the other is legal doctrine. Judicial policy is almost a taboo topic in Slovenia, and it was so well defined in the National Assembly by the longtime president of the German Constitutional Court, the legendary Herzog, when he was here on a visit to Slovenia alone, just at the time of the change of power in Germany, when Chancellor Schroeder replaced Chancellor Kohl. He defined judicial policy as follows: "Look, there is one border area in which the same judges, according to the same rules, will be judged in the same manner as before yesterday in one direction, from now on, judged differently." He was, of course, counting on the people's will to be expressed in the elections and that they would come from this changed value environment. And that signal that we are talking about today and that you have put as a rhetoric in your debates, what should actually be one of the reasons why we need to change the whole law; even if we let that legal framework change so many articles, it is already clear from your current practice that it is necessary to call it a new criminal code; it is a fact that the value environment has changed. Even when it comes to judicial policy as a legislative branch of authorities, i.e. the independent authorities, the other autonomous branches of government, namely the judicial branches of government, we send a signal that is clear: that the value environment has changed, that the social environment has changed, that the state of Slovenia has eventually become a full member of the European Union and is at this point leading it. And why is that important? Let me mention just two of these typical border judgments, from which it is very clear what the President of the German Constitutional Court said, is a judicial policy. I would like to recall that a few years ago, in criminal proceedings, the Court in Celje released the former JLA officers accused of assaulting a civilian and of violence against him. Apologize by explaining that: "JLA was not an enemy army in Slovenia until autumn 1991." That's a quote. How could a court in Slovenia have forgiven someone by such reasoning, I leave you to your judgment. For me, this is a typical reflection of judicial policy and a large part of the legal profession as well. The same could be said of that judgment that was heard in public newspapers a few months ago, when one of the Slovenian courts, who allegedly hit a police officer with a vehicle in the performance of his official duty, imposed only a conditional penalty on the grounds that he really needed another opportunity. I'd have a very interesting comment, but I'd rather save it at this point, because then he'd just distance us from the essence of the story. Part two. In addition to saying that a signal for a different judicial policy is needed in these border cases; that is, a signal that will go in the direction of European values that will protect human life, which will protect its dignity, which, as I have already pointed out, will protect our children; but of course, it is necessary to raise the issue of legal doctrine and say that the law so far is nothing more than a Yugoslav penal law, which was then so reshaped in 1994, that only what was expressly contrary to the new Slovenian Constitution was excluded from it. In this way, Slovenia remains the only one who still applies this so-called Yugoslav legislation. For all the other countries in the area of the former Yugoslavia have in fact already made this change. And why? Because they are aware that the legal doctrine was completely different back then. But what a fine introduction it was to the textbook, which, for starters, is still being used in the Law School, except that the quote covering this legal doctrine in later editions had a few changes first, and then just disappeared from the editions, and it will probably be clear if I read the quote in the basic textbook too. By the way, how did he define legal doctrine? Here's the thing: "Penal law is a means of protecting existing social regulation." Next, paragraph 2: "Penal law is a means of repression and a systematic fight against a particular part of the population, to fight against a class which, because of its different interests, opposes the integrity of the existing social regime or its constituent parts. It is the subjugation of individuals and social groups, the general and required production of division and exchange." I know who's going to say, "Well, that's it, but in this paragraph, there's a systematic violation of human rights!" But it's essentially a doctrine of abuse of the law for revolutionary purposes. Already, but this is the valuable framework in which the legislation of the day was formed, and I say again, this textbook, whose authors are Mr Bavcon and Mrs Sherikhova, who many of you have already referred to in this debate today, is one that has translated the legal doctrine of the system of that time and, of course, reflected itself in this legislation. Of course, we need a legal framework that will be European comparable. It is my responsibility to say that this new proposed law is so. We need a law that will adequately protect fundamental values and which will be the final word of all those concepts relating to the former identification of the social danger of a particular phenomenon, as officially stated, and something else can be found in the existing legal regime. These are, of course, indicative, those valuable reasons that we all, for this reason, have already been most alerted to when we ratified the Treaty of Lisbon in this Chamber just a few months ago when we said that we are sincerely accepting European values. But, ladies and gentlemen, European values - sometimes, I must say that in Slovenia many understand them slightly differently than the developed Europe understands, and it is very interesting to go to meetings abroad when you meet colleagues from other parliaments, when you meet colleagues from the old members of the European Union, how they are very careful and how they are following them from a completely different perspective and they can also enlighten them in this way. This is very refreshing, and it might be good to invite these colleagues here again and again, and to ask them to participate in some of our discussions, and not to abuse it, as is so often the case in Slovenia, language barriers so that some of the established positions will then be projected abroad and get their own opinion back, which is then very often sold here, especially when the initial issues are, say, value points, let's say reporting some of the media and something else, which from this debate at this point of time, is relevant to it because it is very difficult to set the whole framework of this law without knowing all these circumstances. The law, which I stress once again, and thus I conclude, represents a significantly better protection of the fundamental values for which Slovenia has decided by its independence and integration into the European Union, including human freedom, life and personal integrity in the first place. The law that we are talking about today brings much better protection for our children, brings much better protection for employees, brings much better protection for the human environment, and means that I hope I have shown enough detail with the cases I said in the debate, including the value shift. A shift in the direction Europe has long since made. In the field of criminal law, Slovenia does not yet exist. Now is the opportunity for us to do this together right now, and I call on all of us to be able to take this step as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u36	Thank you very much. My move won't be exactly the way we were invited at the moment. If you're a magician. Grimes shocked, nothing new, I think it's been going on for a while. The relationship to this law depends on how we approach or what our view of this law is, what we believe about criminal sanctions, what will result from higher penalties. This is not only in this proposal of the Penal Code, we are also asking this question in all other areas. Also elsewhere, the rate of repression is increasing, and I don't know if that's our primary objective. If I compare it with traffic offences in the Road Safety Act, we will also raise the penalties there, we have already in the past and have a short-term effect and we will again and have a short-term effect and we will have them again in a short time and will have a short-term effect again. If we think so in this Penal Code, it will be good when most people are imprisoned, just as the law on traffic offences will be good when most are punished. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, that comment's probably in place, too. [[..]] I am not sure that the amount of punishment means that we are successfully pursuing a policy in this area over a long period of time. And once again, if we look at it from another point of view, there is no punishment that would be high enough for relatives, such as closeness or those who feel a particular attitude toward a particular act. They would demand the highest penalty for the perpetrator; probably life imprisonment is not enough, perhaps a better case of lynchings or perhaps similar to the inquisitions of the past. These days, I was able to watch a film about the crossing of Jesus, but every one of them could create an opinion, including the procedure that led to the crucifixion and the desire that this would not happen, and the crowd eventually demanded it. Therefore, the question is how to determine how to do this. Here I have another question that is very important. See, when you have a perpetrator of a crime or a perpetrator who knows that he will most likely be convicted of the highest punishment that is possible with us, and that there is no way out, you can imagine his doing at the time that he realizes this decision. You can imagine what this is willing to do to ensure that the time limit of justice does not reach it. In fact, we are putting in place a new threat rather than being able to act preventively and could reduce these derogations in society. Some were talking about the rest of the former system in the penal code. The Minister once spoke about the fact that this debate has been going on for 14 years. It may already take 14 years, but it is very questionable that within 6 months three experts prepare a law that responds to all the dilemmas and eliminates all the irregularities. At the same time, we have an expert on the other hand who is very opposed to the arrangement that is now in place. And if the debate now lasted 14 years, I am not sure that it will last so long the next time this penal code has to be amended again. So, on the question of whether to support or reject this proposal, we need to look at it from several perspectives. It is true that we can also write matters that have not yet been recorded in this Code, and it is right that they are written down and that they will be punished. Of course, I'm not opposed to that. But the question is how is this further settled. I will not support the proposed solution alone, despite all the demagogic discussions in support of this proposal. Or just because of that, I don't want a society in which repression will prevail. I do not want a society that will look forward to the future, but I want a free society in which those who commit an individual crime will be punished accordingly. But what is the appropriate punishment, and I suggest that we leave the policy to the profession and that the profession prepare an appropriate proposal on this matter, not the one it is in the procedure today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Hvauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I note that Slovenia has recently gone through a very dynamic, variable period in which a number of changes have changed, in which a number of new developments have occurred and it is entirely logical that these changes are also followed by legislative changes. The law or proposal on our tables - I believe that these changes are followed by the European orientation, that the market for this popcorn with the former Yugoslavia, the former Soviet Union, to which this legislation of ours has somehow gravity, and of course I support such changes. These things just need to be cleared up sooner or later. I cannot believe that the debate concentrates only on, maybe two, three points: increasing repression and so on, if the law also brings many others, the time for a suitable solution. Something has already been mentioned, and it won't hurt if I repeat it. It is a matter of protecting or regulating the area of pedophilia. I think the kids are the ones we have to protect anyway. It's about the environment, it's about economic crime, it's about employees, it's like we could list it. But those who don't like this law or those changes are not the weather, you repeat as parrots that it is an increase in repression, that it is a drastic, disproportionate increase in punishment. You're seeding the flossules that it's not humane or anything like that. Consider, too, the fact that the perpetrator is also the victim. And that when we talk about a penal policy, we need to look for some real measure, fair measure, some proportion. A colleague before me used to say that no punishment was too great for a victim. On the contrary, he would have been very pleased if the offence had not been punishable at all. And within these two extremes, we need to look for that healthy measure. And the law doesn't say anything, just like that, we put in jail for life, but it does speak of the worst crimes of all: genocide, war crime. What could possibly be worse? Only in these exceptional cases is this sentence allowed to be increased to life imprisonment. And another group of perpetrators gets these options. These are the so-called serial killers, the ones who took the lives of more people. I agree that this kind of crime, taking a life, can be done, I don't know, due to a web of circumstances, due to current weakness, current hardships, mistakes, if you want, and that person should be given another chance. After he's done his time honestly, let him try again. That's human. But those who happen to him regularly, repeatedly, and this man must be treated differently, with several aspects. For the first time because of some proportionality of the penalty, secondly because it can be very dangerous to the environment, those who are completely innocent who have nothing to do with it have nothing to do with its previous act are at risk. This is also why it is necessary to allow the possibility of this life imprisonment in such cases, and we have already had such cases in Slovenia. There are not many of them, and many of them are not expected to happen in the future. But the possibility must be allowed, and I am confident that courts with a great deal of sensitivity, if necessary, will impose such sanctions. The next thing that bothered me in these presentations were opinions on what is the legal profession in Slovenia. I was almost frozen on my back when I heard that all the legal profession concerning criminal law was concentrated in just one city or in one college in Slovenia. I think it's already out of bounds. That those who are so committed to one centre speak of teams in other universities in Slovenia being "unequipped", unable not to deal with criminal law. This actually shows that some are really drunk from this central authority, and this is another additional reason why it will be necessary to start thinking differently in the field of profession. Last but not least, set up lawyers, get together what the legal profession is. As politicians, it's a little harder to judge. But if lawyers, some highly esteem each other, they cannot agree on who the legal profession is, which are the real ones, and then this is very wrong. And I have a feeling that some who are considered to be the only legal experts in Slovenia are deliberately, deliberately disposing of this generation of younger lawyers who have a slightly different, more modern view of the legal profession, and also somehow prevent them. Perhaps even so that these younger ones do not write any professional work, what legal opinion, which textbook, and in this way they could not develop specifically into a professional. The following reservation has also been repeatedly mentioned, namely, that this law will be adopted too quickly or that it will enter into force too quickly. I agree that it takes a certain time for those who are professionally using this law, if I say so, to become familiar with it. But one of the arguments for the law to be enforced later is that, however, it is a matter of considerable length of time for all other citizens, those who may be subject to sanctions, to be familiar with new solutions, with new provisions. Yeah, what are we gonna do, please? Are we going to do a seminar for those who are already sitting in prison and educate them about what sanctions they will face if they repeat those worst acts? Are we going to make a call, invite potential perpetrators, and generously explain to the state what awaits them under this law? I think that the current moment calls for quick answers in this area. A lot of data has been provided, in some areas of crime is growing and we need to follow through with legislation to make this as little as possible. As far as the public presentation is concerned. I've heard a lot of calculations today about who was here, by whose order, where he came from, and so on. But, please, a nice, public presentation, it can appear, debate, debate anyone who wants, any lawyer who gives himself something could appear, say his respectable professional opinion, debate, draw opinions with other legal experts, and probably in this way contribute to some progress or better results, but not. And those who were not here today are using certain policies to make use of their dissatisfaction on behalf of someone so-called or I do not know what professions here in this Parliament. But when it was an opportunity for them to actually show their professional opinions, these people weren't here. That I won't be too long. It seems to me, as I said in the introduction, that this proposal is an important step forward. I support him. I and I think that my colleagues too are open to further discussions, to further improvements if we find better solutions in the course of the adoption of this law than at this moment on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I do not imagine that I can assess the quality and content of the proposal of the Penal Code on my own. It's too complicated, too complex to say what's right and what's wrong. I'm not as confident as many of my colleagues, especially from the right, who can say that the law is great, what's wrong with it, in the previous, what's the right solution now. Good for them who know all this. I don't think so. And the fundamental reason is that it bothers me that no matter what quantity is and how it is counted, there could be no greater common view and harmonisation of the profession and practice in the preparation of the Penal Code. If that were the case, it would probably be the position of the Minister and the Ministry, and in any case the Member and Members, who put something on the table, would be easier. The first question that arises is: Are the amendments to the code entirely necessary? Would only some changes and additions be necessary and beneficial? For all agree that some changes and additions would be beneficial. I have not heard anyone say that it would be wrong that after 13 years of implementation of the new Slovenian Penal Code, there were no issues that should be re-ordered. The argument that a new law is needed, especially for the reason that it would be European because it was formerly pro-Yugoslovak, is relatively poor. Apart from the general definitions on specific cases - where, why, how, neither the proponents nor the minister nor the coalition argued. With the empty phrases that it is necessary to make it more advanced, more European, it is probably impossible to operate. The second question that arises is, Are all the proposed changes, in particular their majority, well thought out or not? I'll do two, but you don't have to be the most important and the most real. One is the issue of obsolescence, the other is the question of life imprisonment. As far as obsolescence is concerned. My logic follows the warning of opponents of the complete amendments to the Penal Code, which say that the statute of limitations will increase the duration of possible prosecution and thus also the criminal procedure. If anyone else can claim anything else, I will be extremely grateful and let them explain it to me in any way. Since, from now on, only an absolute limitation period, which is twice as long as the generally applicable relative limitation period, is applicable, and the relative one that forced the public authorities to act because, if they have not implemented certain measures at that time, it was no longer possible to act against the potential offender, then the establishment of an absolute limitation period will allow the State authorities to proceed longer and to increase the uncertainty of the possible perpetrator of the crime, whether actual or non-effective. I think this is a thing we should seriously consider. Secondly, the question of life imprisonment, not only related to the Rome Statute, but also to the fact that the legislature does not emphasise that the imposition of life imprisonment and the way in which a 30-year prison is imposed now increases the possibility of prison sentences in general. He is no longer 20 years old and in the event of more crimes of 30 years, but also 21, 22, 23, 25, the possibility of imprisonment being substantially extended. If what we have heard most often is that this is proposed mainly because it is the expectation and desire of the public, then it is not a strong argument for the legal profession. And it would be good to hear some more. Next. The government itself, as the proposer, says that the legislation adopted will be enforced in about six months, or on November 1st, and will also have an impact on certain other laws and in particular points to the Criminal Procedure Act, the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions Act, the Juvenile Offences Act and perhaps more, but these three are specifically mentioned. Of this we have two in the process now, these are amendments and additions to the law on criminal procedure and enforcement of criminal sanctions, and I am not sure that so far the Minister has not assured us that these two laws would already deal with all the issues that are needed as a result of the new penal code, if adopted, even settled. He drew attention to the issue of a small social hazard, which is adequately regulated in the CAP, 361 additions to the current 161st Article or other issues, I do not know, and I think they should be made clear because of the significant novelty in the amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, all of these issues, which change from the general part of the Criminal Code, does not exist, nor do I. I ask whether it is at the same time when it is already under consideration in the National Assembly, amendments and additions to the law on criminal proceedings, and at the same time a completely new law on criminal proceedings, where we also have some texts. In short, I fear that there is a reaccumulation, which is the characteristic of the work of this ministry, I think we have more than 50 laws that we have considered at this time, and this does not give us much consistency. And the last thing I'm gonna say. Look, the obvious fact that anyone manipulates a professional can be, if they're right, just mutual. The Ministry and the Government are also manipulating the profession if we are already doing this in the opposition because we have experts who consider each other and we have practices that consider each other. I can give it to you, but I don't want you to have the document yourself, where the judges have announced that the amendment of the law will lead to greater backlogs, that there will be many more legal issues, and before they are cleared, it will not be easier, but harder to conduct criminal proceedings and impose criminal sanctions. In the meantime, such statements are made that really surprise people when you hear them on TV that prosecutors and police will be treated by the new criminal code, special work, easier leafing and finding the real crime than they used to be. I mean, that's really sad. Yesterday's Reactions, Mr. Secretary, look. You didn't say, God forbid, I wouldn't have thought of it, but one of the Members, who has very categorical views, what's right and what's wrong. In such a fact, I simply do not want to be responsible for the solutions proposed, especially if I know that the legislative and legal service of the Government has also had important concerns, which says that most ministries take into account its arguments and professional proposals, but this time they are not. However, I think that this is just a special sign that points to some sort of niche which, Mr Minister, was also on the Ministry's side, because talking about 14 years of discussion is totally true. Of course, every law in force is sometimes discussed. However, a proposal for amendments and additions or new criminal legislation has been extensively discussed for several months, perhaps four or five, since the end of the previous year, and cannot therefore simply be equated with 14 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u41	Thank you very much. To the word I invite the apostle Joseph Jerovšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If it works, of course, because of the voice. The proposal of the penal code before us is certainly progress. No, I'm giving up. [[...]] I can see it's not working. [[Too cold.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Will you try again, Comrade Jerovšek? No, no, no. But I call to the word the Member of Michael Prevac. He's not here. The word has been given by Ambassador Uhan. She's not here. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proponents and the state, as well as the Government, know exactly how crime is best prevented, namely by creating a social state, greater justice, greater equality before the law and, above all, greater equality in society as a whole, but the obvious time is not meant for these changes, these policies, but primarily for political and financial elites. And this elite is talking to us, and it's finally buying us out to accept its philosophy of greater order, greater repression, and even something that promises better times. This is some kind of manipulation, and I'm going to talk a little bit about this manipulation. Wearing laws, especially the Constitution and the Codes, must survive for decades as basic texts, can and must also generations and generations. Finally, in a public presentation, it was also said, inter alia, that the Code was not an act adopted for one term by a Member or two, but was adopted for several generations in advance. Serious legislative work can only be drawn up in an open dialogue of expertise and science, dialogue in which people are heard and what is most important, where everyone who knows and who has weight in this area sits at the common table. Anyone who follows the shortcut must be aware that the legislative shortcut is an account that cannot be made. And the Ministry of Justice, with the principle of the Minister, has decided on this last, as the proposal for a new criminal code was created, as in public to read, in secret, it was prepared by only three legal experts, the other profession was not involved in this project. Therefore, the statement made by you by the Minister, who repeats from the performance, that the debate on the need for changes in criminal material law took place in the last 12 years, even 14 years, sometimes denied you, and that the layman had sufficient time for public debate, a typical example of arrogance and persecution, which we have already been accustomed to, since the public debate began last October when the draft document, which was a secret document, was then seen by the public. Of course, the question of why this is done is, alone and my personal answer is, with the finger of evil said, and even more directly - you are simply a minister, and of course some of your colleagues were afraid of public debate, because it is a mental pattern that does not agree to wisdom, that if something worked well once, it does not need to change just for the sake of perverted ideological reasons. This is true and proved by one of the main authors of this proposal, who, by means of a method of political and professional discreditation, has mutilated his Jewish and legal experts, and this has also been found in some of the professional articles, not in the media, in the daily press as well. That is why I believe, and I am sure, that if a broader and in-depth expert debate is not allowed and allowed, and if all those who know about this issue are going to talk, only one by one and will not listen and take into account the valid arguments, then we will get a law, a new criminal code with a robe. That is why I propose and my proposal is that you stop the procedure in the National Assembly and that the profession sit down and that you do not impose the full responsibility of adopting this code on us Members, who are most of us not iurisists, but of course we are familiar with some other things. And in the end. When it comes to life sentences, I'll tell you my point. And, you can take it politically, you can take it something else. If we survived, according to your interpretation, philosophy, a totalitarian system with a maximum 20-year sentence, I can't explain why we are now going back in a democratic society or further back from the previous totalitarian system and introducing a life sentence. The death penalty, in my opinion, is the philosophy of the island, which leads prisoners sentenced to life imprisonment to regulate life and rules in Slovenian prisons. And that's what I want, at least personally, in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I would like to take the floor with you, Mr Anton Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u46	Respectable. It is very irresponsible of the proposer to put us in a position to decide whether the bill is prepared in the way it should be, so that it has been all-rounded, that, according to the principle that has long been known in the drafting of legislation in all democratic countries, more than 100 years ago, some have written about the fact that the legislation is permissible only when a solution is first comprehensively prepared and, in this case, it should also be in our case. You can't get rid of the feeling that it's about measuring your muscles, that it's about the Minister wanting to put a marriage under the roof in this mandate, you could say, in your image and in the image of the same ideological thinking people. It would be difficult to get rid of the feeling that it is only a case that some who participate or who have been represented by names and surnames as authors are also running for constitutional judges, that at the same time some participate in political campaigns when it comes to pure political functions and here swears only on the profession and once again on the profession. I don't know what would be wrong if the Minister were trying to make sure that perhaps just as democracy would dictate that so many times are exchanged opinions and positions are formed to clean up what is most appropriate for our country. Is it really possible to work on the principle that they might be liked by some who think that some things simply have to be attributed, whether from the Rome Statute or from comparable other arrangements? For example, is it right and best for our situation that records are publicly accessible, which is possible in America. I'm sure Slovenia doesn't. In such a large country, with so many millions of people compared to two million in Slovenia, this is something that directly stimulates the authorities to collect and abuse data such and different ones. Here, however, in this National Assembly, several times in this mandate has shown that I am not speaking back either. Even in retrospect, when certain information has been misused for a certain purpose or published for a specific purpose. This minister, unfortunately, has now gone out, is the case of a minister who has found the archives all of a sudden, published them, but there are also some data that are controversial. You plead that all records should be kept, made available and used. It will be very difficult for you to convince anyone that this is security. The way in which this law is drawn up, the procedure under which it was prepared, makes it very clear that it is a matter of increasing the repression and threat of the rule of law of citizens. On the contrary, citizens in interest groups, in professions, in the public concerned, in civil society, however, should be able to compare these things with other regulations, to try to determine what is acceptable and acceptable for the degree of democracy and legal certainty in that country to introduce into such a law as we are now adopting. I am firmly convinced that such an approach increases the feeling of greater repression, after less security, not what has been said here in the introduction. When it comes to increasing penalties, I do not know whether 30 is right or 40 or life imprisonment, but it has certainly been demonstrated that executions and even the longest prison sentences in comparable systems have not yielded results. And even when we are talking about a UN resolution talking about a moratorium on the execution of the death penalty, it appears that this would still be the right course, and this is also linked to how this is punishable for life. But as it is said, you have put us in some position, irresponsiblely, to now decide between one, the other and the third profession in Slovenia, to say so or the opinion within the profession, that we cannot compare the solution with the other more regulated, if you want, legal countries. It sounded like a lot of things were going on with the old man's backseats, and so on. And now, if we don't vote for the law, we're going to defend something that's survived, something that's past. Here too, for example, some professors, professors, some eminent legal experts recognised abroad and at home who created this country, this free country of ours, including writing from the constitution and some other documents forward. Unheard of. But to justify your right, you go so far as to illustrate even some people just behind the phone. But I cannot join those who think that the law is a good basis for further discussion, but I want the profession to have the opportunity to get the public a chance to discuss it, and also with the knowledge that the Rome Statute does not impose the obligation to legislate such an order as you expect here, I will vote against it with a light heart, also because I do not want it to be tomorrow, tomorrow or next week, when we vote, so clearly rewarded also work on this law with a very responsible, independent function, but with a rich ideological omen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u48	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with the team, a nice greeting! In view of the debate so far, given the fact that the proposal in the first reading may be purely in principle, it is clear that any proposal coming to the table by anyone is limited to a certain number of opinions; we know that in Slovenia in general there are two experts, three opinions. Therefore, I think that, despite the fact that the views on this proposal are different, it is certainly possible to add to this debate. And I am sure that the ministry will listen mainly to substantive proposals and improvements. I must say that I understand the adoption of legislation and the correction of legislation as an urgent task that the legislative body must perform, in particular with a view to following the changes in the situation and the environment in which we live, and that, by means of legislation, it is attempting to update and regulate the new situation that is emerging in society. I think this criminal code has a distinct role to play. If we look at just some of the new developments that are emerging and that are, in my opinion, introduced precisely to try to capture and regulate our lives together and to protect in fact most citizens from those who do not want to respect some common rules of the game in some regulated common life in the country, I would point out perhaps by my positive content, which, for example, allows for a more flexible expression of criminal sanctions. Perhaps even on the basis of working for some time in the teaching profession, I have come to realize that punishment must be educational and fair, but it is very difficult to have a lot of criteria in punishing individuals in the same cases or similar cases, which differ only from one another according to certain specifications. I think that the more flexible the penal code, the more it is, the more it allows judges to impose fair sentences or appropriate disciplinary penalties on individual cases. And I think it must be one of the acquisitions of this Penal Code. Then we can see that the formal institute of the so-called continuing crime is actually regulating, which so far has been used by the courts in practice, but in some imperfect way and the Penal Code is trying to do so, or is now regulating that this institution applies only to property crimes, but not to some other, for which it has been used, I agree. Then it brings a lot of new crimes, as I said in the spirit of updating legislation in view of the situation we are in and facing in a different environment that is changing over time. Crimes in the field of terrorism, for example, then criminal offences relating to the abuse of biomedical research. Science has progressed so much in this area that it is necessary to adopt some kind of regulation here and to set certain limits. Then I think it is very important at this point, including for Slovenia, to commit crimes in the field of protection of workers' rights. This exposed the crime of preventing the employment of women due to pregnancy. And I think that one of the things that is also extremely important is new crimes against economic crime. Here it is clearly defined and there is a clear distinction between what it means to create a monopoly position and what it means to abuse a monopoly position. It is clear that only the establishment of a monopoly position, due to all the conditions that are given, cannot in itself be criminal, but it is certainly a criminal offence and this criminal code regulates it in a new way. Then new environmental crimes have also been introduced. Slovenia is a member of the European Union, we know that this is an area that is acquired by long-term sustainability or by allowing for further survival at this end of the world to be an extremely important dimension. That's right, the environment. In particular, some crimes are listed here: pollution of the sea by ship, pollution of the environment by noise and light. Another practice will probably have to be developed here. The group and light can be quite elastic, in particular in terms of measuring these impacts, standardising measurements, which will likely then also have consequences for those who exceed certain quantities. I would like to mention another thing that also seems important to me, given the situation in Slovenia. This is Article 324 - Insolent road traffic. Here we can see statistics that in Slovenia there were more than 30,000 traffic accidents in 2006, of which 262 deaths. And the most common factor is unadapted speed, disregard for advantage, and irregular overcoming. Surely, therefore, one of the essential elements of these crimes, which result in death or serious bodily harm, is improper speed management. And Article 324 sanctions the insolvent driving of road transport. Its purpose is mainly to cooperate with other laws to limit the sea on our roads and is a complement in this law. It is very appropriate for me to try to take this step in the right direction, which I think most of the public will also agree with. We all know that something has to be done, but we all know that when drastic punishment increases, we drive a little better for a while, and then we forget about it. I think it is very important that some tax cases are listed here, which result in accidents: "A person who will be punished by his or her act, which must be a worse breach of road safety rules, will cause a dangerous situation that could cause a traffic accident and life-threatening accident and will not be brought to light due to the timely action of the other participants." I think that this article, if properly presented to the public, will have a preventive impact, of course I believe that even with the appropriate additional preventive action of the police, which we will also talk about at this meeting in relation to one of the other laws, this is the Road Safety Act. For the reasons listed above, I certainly believe that the proposal is appropriate. And also, as I said in the introduction, I am sure, and I also encourage the ministry, that the comments, in particular of the substantive nature, try to weigh for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u49	Thank you very much. My word to Minister Sturm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Some discussers mentioned public debate and professional debate, but they used both terms easily or as conveniently as they were. I'm very strictly separating both terms. Indeed, the public debate on this law is six months long and the professional debate has lasted for at least 14 years. And part of this expert discussion was also presented as evidence by some authors at a public presentation in writing and they said, please see, we are giving these contributions as part of the presentation of the issue under consideration. It cannot therefore be argued that these two concepts are the same, although it is true that professional treatment is also available to the public throughout the public, as it has been published in expert papers and has also been carried out in the framework of expert consultations, which have also been public. However, public debate can in fact only be possible when we have in our hands a draft of legal material. That's not what it was until now. Secondly, I would like to clarify a little more about incrimination in the proposal for a new criminal code; crimes against sexual inviolability. In the debate, it was also said that criminal sanctions were about the same as before. It may seem so at first sight, but it isn't. For so far it has been possible to use the doctrine of continuing crimes in these crimes. And usually in such cases, there are several crimes. And the court only tried for one so-called continuing crime. The future criminal code criminalizes each such act individually. Therefore, if more such acts have taken place, it is for each person or a number of consecutive crimes have expired and, in such a case, they will always be subject to higher penalties or I will say much higher penalties than they have been before. In this case, it must be said that we are quite right, that criminal policy will be substantially tightened. However, given the number I have already mentioned, this moment of imprisoned persons in Slovenian laws, which is relatively high, according to general belief, 150 such cases, obviously makes such a change in criminal law sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u51	Thank you. I invite you to my word, Ambassador Cveto Zalokar Orazem. She's not here. Member Joseph Školč has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! This law cannot be discussed in isolation from all the context of what the Government does in the system of justice or in the system of the judiciary. So when we meet here with different procedures when preparing this law, we must also have in mind other laws that we are also beginning to amend at this meeting as a number of other decisions taken by the Minister and the Government and are substantially reshaping the judiciary. This seems to me to be the context to which special attention should be paid, and my thesis is that the Minister, with all these interventions in the rules governing such criminal policy, the procedures governing the situation of judges, prosecutors, lawyers, financing and all the rest, is destabilizing the judiciary in some way. It destabilizes her in different ways. One of these is that it actually changes laws that all these people need to know exactly and not say half in secret, but in an invisible way so far. The Minister spoke about the difference between professional and public debate. We can certainly agree that all this legislation is also necessary for longer public debates. We miss that. It's definitely not enough for six months. But when it comes to the fact that the expert debate took place for 14 years to silence the fact that someone, and no one, from these 14 years of debate, has actually included only the proposals of three experts who worked through other experts. This, of course, is not at issue in itself. But it would be wrong to think that the amendment of this law is the product of a 14-year discussion. If we understand correctly, the expert proposals for this have been presented by three gentlemen. Mr. Belle, Mr. Jakolin and Mr. Deisinger. Of course, there's nothing wrong with that. But let's just say the minister ruled out everyone else. But what the government coalition thinks of them has heard through the mouth of Mr Grims, who usually deals most brutally with all those with whom the government in Slovenia disagrees. It would be good if the Minister of Sturm also reacted against such serious charges at the expense of respected professors. Something like that could have happened to him, too. But let's just leave it. In short, I understand the amendment of the penal code as part of this disassembly of a system with which the current authority is not satisfied. That she's not satisfied is easy to make a legitimate assessment. However, we think this type of destabilisation of this whole part of the government is problematic and we are having a discussion about it. This will be seen even more through changes in the criminal procedure, even more so through the intervention of lawyers, not to say what we are monitoring, I will say, not through legislation, but through the media, what is going on with these proceedings led by prosecutors. There's been a lot of talk about this life sentence. I'm against her myself. I oppose her, but of course someone here can teach me that I am wrong, because the life sentence has at least so far been considered a death penalty. It has been enforced by those countries that had to give up for such or other reasons at the same time, and I will say in the freedom of an individual until the last second of his life, by another measure, is said to be a life imprisonment. What happens to this has been heard a lot, but what is certain is that the ratification of the agreement that has been discussed does not require any country to impose a life sentence, which, I will say, is mistakenly cited by the Minister's co-workers. It does not, on the contrary, say that this agreement is without prejudice to the penalties prescribed by the countries. But this disassembly goes on at other levels, some new crimes are being introduced without being sufficiently defined and, of course, this is a problem not only for the perpetrators but also in the judgment of the courts and one of such new crimes is the public disclosure of crimes against honour and a good name. That sounds, I'll say, maybe it sounds very grand to someone, especially maybe it sounds great to people, who we are more or less always at the impact of the media, but in fact in their content this means a new intervention in media law, a new intervention in media freedom, a new demand from editors that certain things are not done or can be sanctioned. If we quote Mr Emil Zakrajšk, who certainly has extensive experience from the judiciary, he is a lawyer who enjoys reputation and was his own time, if I remember the judge correctly. He says that the text of the proposed criminal offence is unclear and allows for different interpretations, so it can reasonably be asked whether it meets the requirements of the principle of legality, which requires that the offences are accurately and definitively defined. This is certainly a comment that requires reflection. But if you ask what people who follow our work think about it, people who work in the media will understand this provision as an additional intervention into their freedom and indirectly into the freedom of the public word. Because measures to protect a good name are quite precisely defined already in media legislation. That's where part of the thing breaks down. In short, in these two cases and in this context, I would conclude that this law, as well as the next two, three that we have today, are not to this extent conceivable that Parliament should give them a green light for further consideration. If the Minister and his co-workers are really not afraid of further expert judgement and further public opinion that I am using this distinction for which the Minister pleads, then such an expert and public confrontation of arguments will be allowed. This is what many interested public are calling for, and many experts are also calling for it. On you, colleague in position, is that you may sometimes believe someone else who says that there are still open questions that are worth weighing and thinking about, but not that you do what we used to do, that when the minister brings something, it is dry gold that needs to be put in the Official Journal as soon as possible so that it does not get any dark color. Later, however, this dry gold is anything but that a number of provisions cause new and new disputes and that many provisions are infamously concluded before the Constitutional Court. I therefore believe that it is necessary to leave this debate open for a while, and only then to weigh when the Government should prepare the law for the second and subsequent hearings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u53	Thank you, too. Member Stana Pike has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u54	Thank you for your words and greetings to all present in the hall. When I think about this marriage, I can say something. That society changes over time. The existing law has not been amended for 14 years. It's been a long time, and at that time, a lot has changed. Slovenia has become part of the European Union and also part of NATO. The Council has shaken up various acts, misdeeds such as terrorism and many other acts. It is therefore also necessary to follow legislation in this area. We ourselves have heard the Minister say that the debate has essentially been going on for 14 years since the adoption of the then law. It is right that it has lasted, but I think that this time is too long and that it is high time that it reaches into this matter as well and that certain things are being reworked. When I am listening to the opposition Members in particular, in fact everyone is opposed, and in fact more or less at one point, which I will explain later and show my view of this point. It's the prison for life. I myself know that legislation, criminal legislation must be brought up and just as we have already heard. It must also be such that it discourages potential perpetrators from doing these things and, of course, that it justly punishes those who do. This is often difficult, but legislation must be written in such a way that it is possible for the whole procedure to be carried out to all that is right. I know there's a lot of opposition to this legislation. But one of the reasons I think is that we're in pre-election time and that it's opposed to everything that's good and what's bad. As far as the life imprisonment that has been most criticized so far is concerned, I can say that this punishment is at risk to those who commit or are supposed to commit the worst acts. It's a genocide, it's like a war of crime and even the most brutal killings that repeat themselves. But where would those people who would do it, who potentially do it, who are potential perpetrators elsewhere than in prison and are a social ones, are essentially unadaptable, because society requires adaptability and these are serious things, and I don't see any other than that any potential perpetrator who thinks in this direction should also be aware of what awaits him. We ourselves have seen the horrors of the Balkans, especially in the Balkans, which are our immediate neighborhood and for these war criminals, what do you want to give them other than life imprisonment for those who are the worst. This is for you, for the worst of all. Not for offenders or for those serious crimes that do not have the scope to repeat themselves and which do not have the weight. It's not meant for you, and I don't know what's wrong with that. Of course, time has also brought many novelties in the sense that Slovenia is now in the European Union and that we are, after all, threatened by terrorism and why this should not be defined more precisely. Why not define paedophilia more precisely and such things as that? That is why I support this law, this bill, and I believe that it improves the status of security, which is one of the important values in each society and protects both children and employees and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u55	Thank you, too. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Criminal law has two essential functions by its nature. The first is a safeguard that protects basic social relations, and the second is a guarantee that governs the protection of human rights and the relationship between an individual and an authority. Criminal law, because of its forced nature, is a very sensitive field between an individual and a country, which is difficult to bear frequent changes, and should be changes in material or procedural law. Criminal substantive law, on the one hand, is a good indicator of the values and opinions of society, on the other, also shows the degree of commitment to respect the principles of the rule of law. The current criminal code in some segments still contains, in my firm belief, the concept of old Yugoslav criminal law, where we know that the rule of law has not worked. This is at least one of the reasons why we should break tradition in Slovenia and reform material as important as criminal law. We hear many opponents that the proposal for a criminal code, if we do not need it, not a new one at all, perhaps a minimum of fundamental changes, but given that the debate on the amendment of the penal code in Slovenia has actually lasted ten years, perhaps for me to assess that it is right for this proposal to actually experience a full parliamentary procedure and that Parliament also accepts it. The adoption of the first penal code, which I claim still smells like SFRY, took place in the three years following its independence, so much earlier than the reform of criminal law. Already there have been disagreements about the regulation of the general part of the penal code that is still alive today. Until the draft of the new code that we are considering today, it has therefore been almost fourteen years, and we can say that the opportunities for a thorough debate on reconstruction have certainly been sufficient. I'm sure of that! The idea of reforming the penal code was not created at once, but developed gradually in a number of professional legal advices. The solutions reached by the distinguished experts in this area and the obligations of international legal treaties on the uniform regulation of criminal and legal matters were included in the proposal for a new law after a thorough analysis. In the New Slovenia Group, we have repeatedly stressed support for the reform of criminal law because we believe that it brings a certain freshness, in particular, a clearer definition of certain crimes and allows for a greater possibility of adapting sanctions to perpetrators of crimes. The new penal code introduces a new concept of criminal law and is more focused on the European environment. The reform could not be implemented by amending the existing code for nomotechnical reasons, as more than two thirds of the existing articles are being amended. Certain offences are being introduced, which are not known by the current Penal Code and determined in accordance with the development and modernisation of the remodelling. In particular, we welcome new developments in labour relations and social security. The criminal code specifically stresses the protection of human rights, in particular the protection of workers' rights. The protection of workers is already offered by labour law to a large extent and the Penal Code further sanctions the most serious infringements in the field of fundamental rights, such as the failure to pay personal benefits and social security contributions and so on. There is a crime of bullying in the workplace, acts of blackmail and violence in the workplace, which we refer to as mobbing. However, it is also very important that a criminal offence in the field of infringements of workers' rights prevents employers from becoming pregnant or giving birth to a child at the time of their employment. Today we face such situations. Today we are witnessing a number of cases where workers have to sign statements that they will not become pregnant during the duration of their employment. Such interventions are unacceptable interventions into human dignity and human freedom. That is why we are even more supportive of the amendment of the Penal Code, which will characterize such acts as crimes. In the New Slovenia Group we will participate actively in the further parliamentary process of adopting the Penal Code. We are convinced that in this submitted form we need it in Slovenia and that it is a good basis for further parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u57	Thank you very much. However, Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u58	Dear President! Dear fellows and fellows! Many things have already been said in this law today, so that I would not repeat matters, but when I read the magnetograms of the public debate that was held in the National Assembly, I focused more on those who advocate a change in the Penal Code or a new penal code than on those who oppose it, even though I must say that I have looked at everything. Interestingly, one of the authors of a law that has been widely called on to impose a life sentence speaks of it as something that will not be implemented. But if it works out, there's a lot of chance it won't. However, there are some contradictions, but also, in my opinion, in peeing, there is also a reservation to this decision. I believe that after all it is difficult for everyone to decide on such a fateful matter, to destroy a man in some way, to prevent life to the end, even if it is a punishment. The old Latin proverb says, "Numquam malum little curatura", it says, "Never heals evil with evil.", we can't just use this reimbursement, with the eye for an eye to prevent matters, and of course all we know today about the world in which we live is that the high penalties, the severe penalties, let this be the law we know in the Western world or even the stricter law than the Sharia law, does not prevent crime, does not reduce that number, although it is also difficult to compare it, because we never have a two-way situation so that something doesn't apply, and if it is true, what would happen. But we're going to what one of the co-authors says. This is what he says about life imprisonment: "In such a prison, parole would be possible after 25 years of imprisonment, while in the present Penal Code at the time of imprisonment of 30 years, there is a possibility of parole after 22 years and six months of imprisonment. Life imprisonment could be reduced by pardon to 25 to 30 years in prison. It would also be an extraordinary mitigation of punishment. In all those cases, when the penalty is reduced, all possibilities of early conditional discharge shall be opened. By exceptionally pardoning or pardoning the sentence of life imprisonment, the sentenced person could be reduced to 15 years in prison under special pardon provisions up to 10 years in prison. On the last pardon, the convicted person could be suspended on parole after 5 years, and, exceptionally, after 3 years and 4 months, he will cease his sentences." Now, of course, I wonder: Where have all these arguments about education and justice that we have been listening to there since about 10 a.m.? It's not about these individual cases. Of course, it is not my business to rule out anyone or try to exclude or deny his opinions. The point is that the new Penal Code is actually older than what we have. More conservative, more focused on or more fueled by what the Slovenians did in the second half of the 1980s. We're on for freedom, for justice, for humanity. Of course, now we have something that we could say is a new marriage. So he's got a new ethic. It's forgiveness and all these positive attributes. We're getting lex talionis. So we're getting an old-fashioned marriage. Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, head for head. That's the change. And when we all wonder what has changed in these times. Nothing's changed. Only a few of us have left our historical memory in the short term. So the ordinary dementia is that we do not know what happened in this Slovenia yesterday. We are talking about us entering the European Union and into NATO, as if it were, I don't know what kind of change it is. People live the way we used to live. The only thing that has happened to me, which is really easy, for example, catastrophic, is that Minister Sturm is still a minister and that he brings into this Parliament a law that does not even normally judge our experts who work in Parliament. Not even those in the government. And that he never really holds up the judgment of the Constitutional Court. At the same time, I have another invitation here for a session, where there are six or seven laws again. And today we're going to deal with everything it brings and it's half done, half done. And don't tell me it's been 14 years. Fourteen years in fact, we've been dealing with this "like" law. The expert debate certainly did not take place that long. But I'm not saying that experts have ever discussed this. But every debate is not a debate on legislation. Public debate, we know how long it took. The public debate on whether the criminal provisions are high enough or not, however, depends on how close the people affected are. If we had listened to this, we would actually have the death penalty in Slovenia itself. Even the ones they're after, the lot, the live border, the apples. Take a look at these joys on Sunday afternoons. That's where you see that ghost. Don't tell me it's that spirit we have to follow. If that happens, of course, this Parliament is over and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u59	Thank you very much. However, Member Drago Koren has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, chairman. A good greeting to the Messengers and the Messengers! There's been a lot of talk here this morning. Yet, I feel as if I were convincing certain ones or as if they were speaking to deaf people. I too will first touch once again on the public presentation of the opinions that we have made here in the National Assembly. I think I was one of the few who attended the entire public presentation of opinions. I must say, I was much more satisfied that day than I am satisfied with today. Back then, I had a feeling that we were hearing each other more, that we had heard more, that there wasn't as much talk as there was, I have a feeling, here today. It's this dilemma that appears all the time, why the new Penal Code, why doesn't it change the old one? But that's not important if we look at the content if we want to change things. The problem is that some support change, others oppose change. The greatest amount of dust in this new Penal Code was caused by this adulterous life imprisonment, life imprisonment. To talk about how human rights are now being reduced in this modern time, how the repression is increasing, I must say that, personally, by the introduction of life imprisonment, I do not see any increase in repression, no reduction in human rights. It would be interesting to know how many convicts today would have had if this provision had been in force in the past period. I'm sure there would be very few. If there was anyone who's going to jail for life. And so much noise and so much dust to raise for it. I don't see any sense here. I don't know. So far, no argument has told me how much damage this life imprisonment has caused us. All European countries, except two, have these. In these discussions, however, I feel that the world will collapse because we are instituting a life sentence. I have given a lot of thought to what we have all done together, especially us, Members of the Assembly and Members of the National Assembly, in order to come to a more positive view in our society, to a more positive atmosphere, to a greater joy of life, I will say. What have we done to ensure that these crimes dealt with by the Penal Code do not occur in our society? We could talk about this for days and nights, and then the new Penal Code wouldn't have any meaning at all. I must say that in the presentation and even in certain debates, a lot of things have stabbed me a little. When talking about some telegrams and greetings, this involved a public presentation of opinions. Maybe I'm too young to know enough about these things. But I don't think there was a speech at the public hearing. But most of all, I was struck by this thought that because of the new Penal Code, these deadlines for starting application are too short. Both for the judges themselves who will use it and for the perpetrators of crimes. I just can't understand it. I really wonder whether we should really make one public call and organise one seminar for possible future criminals and offenders, so that we can familiarise them with all the provisions of this new Penal Code. I'll say, strictly so humanly, humanly speaking, my own conscience tells me what's right, what's less right or what's wrong. The Penal Code must, however, be for my inappropriate conduct or for my misdeeds to be duly sanctioned. The Penal Code also makes it necessary to look at the victims. Not just those who commit crimes. We need to look at it this way and try to balance each other. I will be very happy if there are fewer and fewer of these crimes, these crimes, so that there will be fewer and fewer work in the courts. But unfortunately, right now, I have a feeling that we are not living in an age where people would have more joy in life, they would have listened to their own inner inclination, and that they would have been less deceived by the commission of these crimes. Let me mention the last murder, I think 14 days ago in Velenj. Some strange phenomenon occurred during this murder. The murder itself is, of course, deplorable and a crime. But it's strange and I can't understand how long it's been impossible to detect the perpetrator of this crime, even though it turns out that a lot of people were around, and they knew a lot about it, but they weren't prepared to say things. This is worrying in our society. Obviously, we don't want to see bad acts, we don't want to see crimes, we don't want to see crimes, we don't want to help suppress them, we don't want to prosecute them. I think we can all imagine that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. If I keep going where Mr. Koren ended up in front of me. Yes, the problem is that you do not see the problem; this can be fully agreed upon. And when you spoke somewhat ironically about whether you should even organize a seminar to familiarize potential perpetrators with the future reformed penal legislation, I would ask you, Mr Koren, do you know what the description of the crime of the force defence is, what is the description of the crime of the over-soldier - you probably do not know very precisely. But in a situation like this, you, me, or any of us can find one tomorrow. It is therefore important that these provisions of the Penal Code are very precise and that the legal standard is also predictable. This is important for everyone, both for the perpetrators and for the victims, and of course for the one who then leads the proceedings and judges in these cases. Today, it was said here, interestingly, even a number was proposed that at the last presentation of opinions there were only 11 experts against and 26 were against the proposed criminal code. Mr Hwauc said earlier, for any lawyer who gives himself could come there and tell his own. You know, there's a difference between legal professionals and those who are experts in criminal law. I'm not imagining, and I'm saying that I'm not an expert in criminal law, even though I'm a lawyer and I get to know something. I know so much that I know I don't get to know each other enough. Therefore, I think that here we need to listen to that relevant and credible expert who has something to say about this. In fact, what we have heard here today, which is what Mr Hrovat used earlier, which smelled of lustration. He says this valid Penal Code smells like an ex-SFRY. I just don't know exactly what this legal concept is, what it means to smell something. But it is also interesting how you came to these experts who so positively assessed in the public presentation of the opinions this proposal of the Penal Code. I went out of curiosity and found out that most of those who supported this Penal Code came from the Ministry of Justice. Among them is a representative for relations with the public of this Ministry. One was an intern and so on. I think there's some difference in the expertise of some opinions, some Professor Bavcon, Professor Shelih and others. Among those who objected, let me remind you that there were at least nine or eight such young doctors of criminal law who argued against this Penal Code. Otherwise, how does the coalition SDS, for example, come to an assessment of how many people support, how much the public supports some thing that is, of course, in favour of the SDS. We are aware of the manipulation that took place on the Journal24.si website, when the computer that was reported to the network via a domain owned by the Slovenian Democratic Party came in favour of Mr Janša in the Janša - Starina Kosem dispute. The question was, "Who is right about each other?" I can also wonder where and where the arguments are, if our public opinion also supports stricter criminal legislation and greater repression. Maybe. That wouldn't surprise me at all, because it's kind of something to expect. If a referendum were to be held, if people were to re-impose the penalty, the question was whether people would not vote in favour. In particular, if this referendum were to take place directly after some serious murder or murder. The fact that the Minister says it is unacceptable that we are lagging behind the twenty-four countries of the European Union already in prison for life, I would say that I do not see this behind. On the contrary. I see it for progress. As I have seen in progress, when we adopted the Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights in the Council of Europe, which prohibited the imposition and execution of the death penalty, Slovenia was at that time one of the very rare, if not the only European country which had already had a death penalty ban in the Constitution. And where are we today? Today, the whole of Europe has been ordered to ban the imposition and execution of the death penalty. The Soviet Federation, or today’s Russian Federation, has this in the Constitution and has therefore accepted only a moratorium. There's a lot of things in the short run.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Kumer has said something today that I deeply agree with. In fact, in this debate on criminal law, we do not listen enough or hear each other. That's right. Today's debate has also shown this, but I think this hearing and this hearing is more or less on the one side. So when we talk about who listens to whom, I would say that opponents of the proposed code don't listen, they don't hear, because none of what is an argument for such legislation does not take them into account. On the other hand, there were a number of things that had been warned and critically expressed as comments, and the Government had taken into account when preparing this code that it had put into consideration. And it seems to me that the most important warning should be taken by the one who spoke it or, I apologize, his leader, for it seems to me that his sentinel leader is despising every opinion given in opposition to him. And here this is not only true in today's debate, but practically always, so I would say that somehow he is the greatest demeanor in this national assembly this sent-in leader. Sorry! Because I think that the principle of working in Parliament is that we listen, that we hear ourselves, that we listen to our argument, that we sometimes accept something that is spoken by a political opponent, and then we build on it the whole process. Well, among other things, this messenger leader also said something that he was supposed to say in yesterday's Turnout. In view of the fact that this law will make it easier for prosecutors to find the crime, that is, to place an offence on the list of crimes set forth in the Penal Code. He well knows that this was part of an extractive quote from a longer discussion, yet he referred to it as a key argument cited in the defense of this code. I don't think that's right. And if we just focus on that, that's what it is. So, in general, that's not true. Certainly not, for most of the crimes in the existing Penal Code are precisely and clearly defined. But in some areas, that's not true. In particular, this does not hold true in the field of economic crime, environmental protection and road safety. And in these areas where there are such problems in practice, that is a fact, it is right that crime is very precisely defined. Above all, as far as economic crime is concerned, where modern sophisticated forms of crime also require a sophisticated and high-quality way of combating it. And such crimes must be formulated as closely as possible, defined as possible. So there's really no such problem with persecution. And of course, the main actors in the prosecution of such crimes are, of course, criminals and prosecutors. When a member of the opposition groups said that it would be appropriate to teach in some way also those who could commit certain crimes in the future, and she spoke of the force of violence and extreme force, because it is also an excessive force of violence and extreme force, as we know, which could make a crime. But I think she was exaggerating. There is no need for such training or seminars. That's why "vacatio legis" in this case, in my firm opinion, is not appropriate. For when it comes to teaching ahead of time what a silhouette is and when it comes to overcoming it, it is, of course, necessary to say that it is a silhouette for some instinctive act of men. This isn't about you knowing when you're defending yourself like this or when you're about to do something in extreme force. It's instinctive behavior. There is no need for any pre-training or organization of such training to all potential perpetrators of such or other practices. And that's not necessary. These are, as we say, instinctive behavior, and this does not require pre-emptive preparation. And that you will make a conscious decision when you thus defend yourself against the violence of another. I believe that, however, it would be highly recommended that members of the opposition listen to the arguments of the drafters of the law at some time, to arguments that have also been made several times by the Minister today, as opposed to those claims made by opponents. And then there's something at the end. In my opinion, there were no valid reasons, and there were no substantive reasons why this law was inappropriate. There were all sorts of reasons that said that it was not worth adopting a new law, but it would be enough to accept it with a new law, with some minor changes. That it's too short a time to change overnight and so on. Although none of this is consistent with the actual state of affairs. Some substantive, in-depth discussions I have not seen today. There were more at the public hearing a few weeks ago. I think that these opinions have been weighty and certainly shows that they also appear to be faced with opinions that feel otherwise. And in this way, we're going to come up with a final solution that's probably going to be the result of all of this. But just to say no like that, I don't think it's appropriate. Therefore, I will certainly support this proposal personally, and I hope that it will also lead to an appropriate conclusion in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u65	Thank you very much. And I also invite the Minister to the floor. Minister Storm, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have been following the debate so far practically all the time. Be it directly in the National Assembly or through the screen. I expected a few more concrete proposals. However, all those concrete proposals that we have received will be carefully examined and reviewed from all angles of view, and we will see how they can be incorporated into the proposed concept of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Given that we have 1 hour and 12 minutes left, I ask if there are any Members present. I see they do. I ask you to apply or to apply for further discussion. Here you go. The five Members present expressed their wish for the debate. In the end, the Minister will also be involved in the debate. I call upon the Ambassador, Mr. Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Before that, I was running out of time to replicate Mr. Kovacic. It's interesting that for the first time, if he doesn't understand some of the things that are said in the parable, I really can't help him much. Secondly, after hearing it, when the opposition MPs were unable to make any new substantial proposals to amend this Penal Code. That is also how I understood the Minister. See, in our views, we have already referred to those comments and warnings made by a group of experts working at the Institute of Criminology or the Department of Criminal Law of the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. The debate also noted that some lawyers, judges and prosecutors have already pointed out some of the inconsistencies, inconsistencies and internal inconsistencies of the proposed Penal Code. It would really be too much and too optimistic to expect Members and Members to write and propose specific legal standards to go into this Penal Code. If the ministry has not been prepared so far - so we have also heard in the turnout last night - not even to respond to those warnings and comments, the proposals that came out of this circle shortly after this draft Penal Code was published on the Ministry of Justice's website. It's like we're making a little fool of each other. In fact, he believes that a very responsible task has been put before us. And I don't. I don't think there's a lot of people here in the National Assembly who hope to judge what's right and what's wrong and how it's right and how it's wrong and how it's wrong from what's supposed to go into the Penal Code. It will probably have to be said by the profession, and probably the Minister or the Ministry of Justice will have to listen to these matters. Earlier, it was said that our Penal Code was in fact out of date and that it should be updated. I really don't know where you get your grades from. I have read many reports and analyses that have been produced within the Council of Europe, which have addressed the state and situation of individual criminal laws in the Member States. I've never seen anything really wrong with our criminal laws. It may have been wrong for Prof. Dr. Shelih to have participated in these groups, rapporteurs and experts in the Council of Europe. Maybe that's the fault. But I don't know where the blame is for the assessment of the Max Plank Institute in Germany, which also gave a very positive assessment of our criminal legislation. And in these laws, which we adopt just after the current tape these days, we are often faced with assessments of how to follow the German regime, even though Germany and I are very different. Germany is a federal state. We're a single country. There's a lot of millions of people out there. There's two million of us. They have a tradition, we have another tradition. In short, things are very different. And I have noticed a few more comments in this direction, now that we are in the European Union, and that is why we need to adapt our domestic criminal legislation to this. Of course, it just doesn't hold. The European Union does not impose such measures on national criminal law. There are several other directives and other rules that talk about mutual assistance in criminal matters between Member States and so on and so on, but you are simply misleading some Members here today in many debates, particularly from the coalition. You deceive the public, you deceive the opposition, and in the final stage you deceive yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u69	Thank you very much. But to my word I invite the Member Dimitri Kovacic. Here you are.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. When you spoke to Mrs Bebler about the argument that "vacatio legis" was too short or the time to enforce the law, it would not be possible to prepare all those involved in criminal proceedings sufficiently, you cited some arguments. You mentioned some comparisons that I was trying to explain to you that they couldn't handle. And in the absence of any arguments to substantiate your argument that "vacatio legis" is too short, you said you were talking about the parable. I would expect you to argue what you were trying to prove that "vacatio legis" is too short to enforce the law. That is why I would suggest to all others that you actually propose concrete solutions, concrete proposals for amending or supplementing the existing text of the law, which is being considered at first reading today, which is the first stage, will still be possible to complete and amend. Mr Minister also said a little earlier that they would carefully review and examine all these concrete proposals, which would then be possible if they were appropriate, and also put them in the next text. And I think that this is also the main purpose of today's debate and also of the discussions in the next stages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Member Pavel Gantar has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I think that there is some sort of mania in this National Assembly that, instead of being argumentative with each other, you are, in fact, targeting others in the coalition, talking about why people have such an attitude and how they should not have them. You're arguing with your point of view, not by somehow picking on others, what it's like, what it's like, what it's like, what it's like and what it's like. It's too much. I don't think so. And if you're going to say that I'm going to rob you now, you're going to need it. Another matter to be said is the following. There has been a lot of talk about the value framework of the current Penal Code, which draws the value framework from socialism and so on. Many were said to be cleaning up the rest of the previous regime. Earlier in a brief contribution, I was trying to show that the debate on the Penal Code, on punishment, was an integral part of, you could say, the struggle for democratisation in the 1980s. We don't have to do this anymore. However, I cannot be qualified to judge this or not. And that the degree of humanisation of these processes, including changes, meant a degree, an indicator for the democratisation of the society at that time. But however we take it, we can say that one rule that is empirically confirmed: "The more when a regime or some political government is authoritarian, undemocratic and tyrannical, the more draconian punishment and more draconian punishment." A fundamental principle that we can verify at global level, even if you'll give me a sense of liberal exclusivity. It's a fundamental principle. And the Slovenian company introduces in the Slovenian proposal a code of harsher punishment, harsher penalties, life sentences and so on. In particular, it manifests the nature of its political regime. Right now, that's just the way it is. Otherwise, there's no way to say it. That's why you're not expelling the others, but returning them. Now we do not have Article 133 of the SFRJ Penal Code. It's a verbal delict, if anyone doesn't know. I've been writing about this. Then, not now. We're bringing him back today, actually. In gloves he attacks honor and a good name, as defined here, here inside. I couldn't agree more. Maybe in some other way. Therefore, we cannot qualify differently from this general hypothesis, which has been confirmed a hundred times and proved a hundred times. Life imprisonment - please, we are talking about content! Give me one piece of evidence, one chance to believe that a life sentence will save only one human life, which would otherwise be violently taken, and I will vote in favour. Not because of the retribution, not because of the tooth teeth, but because of that. All the evidence I have and can face is that the draconian punishments in this area actually trigger this battle between the cruelty of the country and the cruelness of the murderer into infinity, which is also happening. But give me the evidence and we will discuss it, because there is another and third treatment. I won't be able to speak today because the minister has obvious proof, but whatever, "proof." It has been said that punishment is fair and effective and that punishment must be flexible. This is what one of the NSI fellow Members said. Very interesting. Of course, the circumstances of the sentence must be taken into account. Up, down, up, up, down. I don't know about that. But the way it was presented is arbitrary punishment. Arbitration, however, is the death of the rule of law. The French regime, before the revolution, was clear - penalties in the Kingdom are arbitrary. Are we going back to that? That's what I'd say when it comes to the attack or the vote from one web site with a repeat script. This is, of course, what they have done, they do many times, but it is not a crime. Nonsense and informational illiteracy. Even after Sturm's proposal, the code is not a crime. I agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u73	Thank you very much. And I would like to take the floor with you, Member Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u74	Now, this debate has been very interesting and on the part of the opposition, unfortunately, this is something to be said and also to be discussed in a reasoned, one-stop-shop. I'll go in one order. If the signatures of the workers' statements are not criminalised, they will not be born at the time of employment, which no government has done so far, but are now proposed in the new law. Then it is just the washing of bad conscience and opposition to such legislation. Of course, it's purely condescending. For starters. Then. The protection of children with a pedophile registry system, which some now strongly oppose, has in fact been established as a solution already in another law, in the ZOFVI, where such an amendment has not only been supported unanimously by everyone for which there is evidence, but some of the opposition have even proposed their additional law that would further exacerbate it. All the opposition then supported that law more or less unitedly. He's opposed to the same thing today. So, it's pure scheming. Third time. When he refers to the profession, not only was I at the public consultation, but I also looked at all the contributions that some of you have made. And what's interesting is that if you analyze, read and sum it up in detail, you find that two of the 59 participants in the public debate were to postpone the adoption of the law a little while longer, but the new law is supported. 31 participants were explicitly for and only 16 were really against. It is said, with all this strong reference to the profession in the past days, there have been many uncritical statements. We were able to read them in the media. All professions are united in rejecting the new Penal Code. It must be said that two thirds of the interested parties explicitly supported the new law. And your reference refers only to a distinct minority. There's nothing wrong with that. All right, so you're referring to a very minority opinion of the profession, which is against this law. But then say it clearly and out loud and just don't get carried away. Third. Death penalty. In fact, this is one of the less important innovations in this law because it is already based on some of the international acts which Slovenia is now bound to. Life sentence, if I said something wrong, I'm sorry. The death penalty, colleagues and colleagues, has in fact already existed in this country. I'll tell you the case of Trbeck - that's what happened in that case. There, procedurally, for example, they reached a solution in the judiciary that Trběbce remained closed, although, if we respected all the letters of the law and kept it completely 100%, we should end up giving him a uniform sentence and he would go free. And the procedures have been delayed. So that he was convicted again and remained in prison until his death. In fact, we had this punishment in Slovenia. Because the legislator forced the prosecutions and the judges, by means of his translation. Is it the legislator's duty to adopt a law that will put things in the right place for such really extreme cases alone and exclusively? This is certainly the rule of law, and this is also a matter of trust in the law. Today, I'm not talking about someone mixing in chandeliers and quoting, which is less important. It is interesting, however, that those who, by shortening their statutes of limitations, have given leave in particular for economic crime - this was the LDS commitment, the SD in the previous term - today read this law because it prolongs the absolute limitation period. So it's a longer hand of justice. In this light, however, it is of great interest that there is another part of the marriage, namely, the exacerbation of the fight against corruption in this new law. For the new law extends this also to certain services arising from the situation. And if we connect these two, it seems to me that this may also be the reason for one part of the opposition's opposition. And that's the end of it. It was very sad, however, that even when it came to the question of constitutional judges, one of the candidates had been involved in the drafting of the text of this law. In fact, he said that the opposition viewed the Constitutional Court as a political body. I'm grateful for that, though. I'll be able to do this on occasion.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u75	Thank you very much. And the Member of Parliament Dušan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that the decision we will make, the 90 Members and Members of this Assembly, will obviously be a little bit more difficult than I imagine today or some of you are overestimating yourself who master this matter. I don't belong to that group of people who would master this substance of the Penal Code in detail as much as some. But I have common sense and a healthy view of the world. And I can, with what I'm listening to, what I'm reading and what I've heard, what the experts have said, create my own opinion and position on these various proposals. And my point, when I was talking about dialogue and listening to each other through, was that. Not to listen to each other in this House, to listen or to disobey and to talk to each other through each other. And I have even suggested that there is no professional dialogue for me unless those who know about this matter sit down at the same table and discuss it. I do not agree that the minister and his associates boast of writing professional articles, and those who know something must, of course, write professional articles. They cannot, however, come together to tell those who have written the draft, directly in the dialogue, and to come up with some solutions in a replicable dialogue. So one more time. I have a big dilemma because I listen to both things and I define myself. I must say, however, that I absolutely reject the basic tension or the foundations that you have put in place today, especially the Members of the post, that this is a break from the past when we adopt this new code. I think it's really crazy. I have already said this somewhere that someone is still obsessed after eighteen years in this country, that within the individual branches of government there are also recent laws, papers, people crawling around some spirit of the past socialist system and that the forces of continuity still have diversified hunters and control the people who decide, judge, prosecutors and so on. It's really getting on my nerves. You'll obviously do this until the last citizen who was born before 1990 dies. This also applies to all of you and to us who sit in this hall. I guess you'll keep saying that until then. I reject that with disgust because you always have this argument in all things. And because the minister said before that we didn't say anything today or suggest anything. We have proposed our opinion and position on life imprisonment. I've been very specific. But I'll go to one more article. This is Article 166, which concerns a criminal offence against honour and a good name, which is now in addition to the author of the article involved in this prosecution by an editor, printer or publisher. This, of course, represents a repressive measure which, of course, extends to me from what he has done, criminally, after interpretation, now involves other persons who are supposed to be directly responsible for it. And there's more. Here I have that, Minister, you will not think when there is a debate, if there is another one, if you do not interrupt, of course we will come up with these specific issues. But one more time. It is not fair for us Members of Parliament and this National Assembly to clear things up without clearing up in the professional public as well as for those working in the operational court and in the legal science that deals academically with this, and to come before the National Assembly at least with as much unanimity as a professionally supported proposal. This proposal, which we have, does not have this support. Of course you missed it here. Now, why did you work in secret, why you avoided it, you're the only one who knows.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u77	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of panellists by members of the National Assembly. I'm asking the minister if he stays in his position, as he said before, does he want a word? Your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me first say something about life imprisonment. Finally, this punishment is also installed as a system of justice. This must be taken into account in the most serious crimes against humanity and international law. However, in the case of serial killers, the penalty is certainly also justified because it can confidently help certain parts of serial killers not to commit such acts. For when we looked among experts who understand the psycho offender of a crime, the answer to the question: Can you tell us that someone who has committed such the worst crimes and who has been conditionally qualified in the profession as a psychopath will not repeat it after he comes out? And I must say that the answer was this: Until his physical strength is dried up, we have no guarantee that he will not repeat this act. So that I can claim that in all such cases there must be a life sentence, which is never really life-threatening, because early layoffs are always possible, it can and will definitely help not to happen again in a series of crimes. Because in this case, it would only be serial killers. Reliable. Let me just say one more thing. Today there was also one of the participants in the public debate, who supported the proposal of the new Penal Code from the point of view of criminal and legal philosophy. I'd say he even gave him a philosophical basis, but he was stigmatized, whether he was a Marxist or a Marxist. I don't know what it would be like if, say, someone else or if I were to stigmatize someone that he was a Marxist or that he was a Marxist. I never do that. That's why I don't want to hear it. Anyone can declare himself if he wants to. But it's not right for me to believe that he talks about others like that if he doesn't want to. Well, let's just leave it. I am pleased that concrete proposals are also in place. But I'm sorry we couldn't hear them anymore today. For we would have had enough time to devote ourselves to them to examine what can be done as improvements, but some debaters promised to do so later. It's never too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u79	Minister, thank you very much. I conclude the debate with the Minister. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Thursday, 27 March 2008, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. I inform you that we have 3 hours and 20 minutes of time available for this point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly and I give the floor to the Minister of Justice. Minister Storm, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members of the National Assembly! What are the essential changes and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act? First of all, let me point out that the possibility of electronic court operations is being introduced. This is the electronic deposit of applications by electronic means. In addition, the delivery of court letters on a secure electronic route and the management of the file in electronic form. Next. Audio and video recording of main readings is enabled. A copy of such recordings shall be made only in certain cases and the summary form of the minutes of the main treatment in such cases. The possibility of hearing the accused, the witnesses and the expert using technical means to transfer the word and image is also introduced. So-called videoconferences. Keep going. The recovery of the fines imposed under this Act, as well as the costs for the benefit of the budget, shall be transferred to the authorities responsible for the recovery of taxes, which shall allow for a more reliable recovery. And the cost decisions will be re-bought according to the provisions of the law governing the administrative procedure. It is assumed that the proposal of the injured party for the prosecution of proposed delicts is withdrawn in the event of his unjustified absence from the main hearing or for the hearing to which he is invited as a witness. However, it has the opportunity to request a return to the previous situation. The news is also the introduction of a compulsory appeal for the service of a judgment with a prison sentence imposed in the event of a stay. We had such cases last year in Maribor, an example of a notary. And, in exceptional cases, there's also the possibility of reporting to the police. The draft law clearly lays down the powers of police officers, the specialised section of the Public Prosecutors' Group for the prosecution of organised crime. In addition to the powers of the police in the pre-trial procedure, they shall also have the powers conferred by law by the competent authorities in the defence forces, which they shall exercise even if they cease to do so after the offence has been committed. With a minor victim, a victim of violence, and a witness under the age of fourteen, he may be in the process of being trusted by a person who is injured or trusted by a witness. Finally, the extended deadline for appeals against decisions from three to eight days except in the case of detention decisions. The bill is finally in line with the proposals of the new Penal Code, which was just discussed in the National Assembly. Let me also say again here what I have already said in the previous debate that this novelty also allows for the further possibility of committing crimes of minor importance. It is also said to leave both by the prosecutors and by the judges. Only matter shall be transferred from the criminal law to the Criminal Procedure Act as a procedural law. Finally, let me say that, of course, there are urgent and very useful changes and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. The Ministry of Justice is also preparing a comprehensive and complex novel or actually a new proposal for the Criminal Procedure Act, which will take place in the next term. However, the text will be completed in this mandate. However, it will not yet be submitted for consideration to the National Assembly, but certainly to the professional public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u81	Thank you very much. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members with a first-signed Member, Josef Školč, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. That is why we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Member Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the SDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, for your words, colleagues, colleagues, Mr Minister, with a co-worker. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we support the proposed amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which, on the one hand, is due to the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decisions and, on the other hand, represents changes that have proved necessary in the current practice of criminal proceedings. In addition to the amendment just presented by Mr Minister concerning the identification of significant crimes or crimes of minor importance, where this matter is now brought from a material law into this procedural law, he would also point out the changes in the composition of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia in its decision to request the protection of the legality of detention, then the change in the withdrawal of the proposal for prosecution by the injured party, then the added specific provisions concerning the counselling of the injured party who is the victim of violence, then the expansion of the circle of beneficiaries to apply for the renewal of the post-mortem procedure, then the introduction of a uniform treatment option in the pre-trial procedure by the police of the specialised section of the State Prosecutor's Office for the Prosecution of Organised Crime. In particular, I would like to highlight the new possibility of serving letters in secure electronic mail and the comprehensive arrangements for depositing applications with an additional possibility to invest in electronic form. This added option of e-commerce will also give rise to the necessary modernisation required today in the field of criminal law. And all these changes are in the function of improving the procedure, which will also contribute to the effectiveness of the criminal process. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are aware that there is only a partial amendment or addition to the law on criminal proceedings. A more comprehensive change, which is also necessary, is necessary in the field of criminal proceedings as well as in the field of substantive criminal law, a wider change in criminal law is needed. So this change, which is yet to be expected, which will be coordinated and adapted to modern European law in the field of criminal procedure, is therefore hoped to be prepared in due course for consideration in the National Assembly. This change is likely to await us in the near future. As we say, today's amendment to the law on criminal procedure in the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u83	Thank you very much. My colleague, Miran Potrč, will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The content of the proposed amendments and the completion of the Criminal Procedure Act are certainly not only smaller in scope, but also less problematic after the dispute than the proposal of the Penal Code. However, I would like to point out in the opening that, in my opinion, it is not good that the justice system as a very diversified and interconnected mechanism has to have clear rules of action which must be interlinked, because every minor has a multiple impact on the number of other participants in this process, in order to change as the justice ministry does in this mandate. This time we have together by the Justice Ministry, which has already been tabled 54, I repeat 54, amendments and additions to substantive, procedural and organisational legislation in the field of justice. Every time we get a package of proposals, this is the most extensive one, I doubt that all things are premeditatedly prepared. This my doubts are as justified as ladies and gentlemen are justified by your claims about the urgency of change. Because most of the time you do not justify these urgent changes with arguments, with the consequences that they will bring about in good and bad, but simply with a European practice that is not known which is just for you, I would say, a general definition. If a person asked you, those who say the most about what you think then would be silent and would not be able to tell one particular case what it really means. For you, these are phrases, phrases that you think can only be implemented in order to make important changes. I greatly appreciated the opinion of the Minister, who pointed out that the main problems in the judiciary were due to a lack of well-thought-out reorganisation. Now he's changed his mind lately. Today and yesterday, when he answered parliamentary questions, he believed that the weaknesses had arisen because of the failure of the governments so far, which had poorly adapted the necessary legislation to the necessary objectives, especially after the trial within a reasonable time. I don't see where this is going to help a lot. It is true, however, that it has some provisions that are certainly indisputable and can be useful. These are the provisions that speak of a modern way of heating and recording. These are provisions referring to the extension of the legal deadlines for lodging a complaint against a decision from 3 to 8 days in favour of the parties to the proceedings. It's possible to have doubts about everything else. First of all, I express these doubts about the proposals for special powers which are once again given to the group of prosecutors and to the group of police officers for special purposes. When this right was first implemented in one of the amendments, there was a major debate and many of us pointed out that this could mean, given the involvement and function of these groups in the prosecution and organisation system in the police, also the political impact on decision-making processes. Now this situation is getting stronger, which I don't think is good and it would suggest an assessment. And the last thing the Minister of Justice has mentioned more by the way, and I think the objective is not to propose, by the way, amendments and additions to the transitional provisions, which allow for the submission of requests for the protection of the legality and renewal of proceedings against legal proceedings by 1990 first, after a new one by 1995 - and I must say that there is no explanation anywhere, and I do not know why - it gives the possibility of new applications, it extends the deadline until the end of 2012, that is, for the new four years, also on the basis of a decision by the Constitutional Court, and extends the possibility of putting legal remedies to the third generation for relatives, while preserving the right to have religious communities' representatives also invest in religious communities. We know when we first had such changes in 2005, what their effect was and why they were made. I would just like to ask the Minister whether any new renewals are expected that will have such a political omen as the renewal of proceedings in the case of the Archbishop of Rozman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Comrade Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u86	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the Liberal Democracy Club, we do not support the bill and we will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. We asked for a general discussion, because we did think that all these laws coming in this spring flower should also be discussed. The proposal for a law constitutes, in some way, the upgrading of the arrangements already in place and does not in any way constitute any systemic changes in the field of pre-trial or criminal proceedings with regard to the effects on the rights of suspects, accused persons, accused persons and other parties. Another aspect is to take into account the proposal for a new criminal code, which is also in the legislative process at the moment. So again, we have a situation where, in fact, a law concerns solutions that are not yet in force, are not adopted, are not dealt with to the end and are not implemented to the end. This, of course, also suggests the possibility of very major complications, and the small ones will certainly be due to the need to harmonise all these matters, first within the legislation itself, the laws themselves, the recalculation and so on, but in practice this will also occur in the management of statistics, in the writing of complaints, in judgments, in the explanation of judgments and so on. So the question is whether, from such a logical point of view, it makes sense to rush into this law. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we do not, in principle, support any proposal for a law based on an unacceptable law, even when it comes to a matter which is, for example, professionally disputed or which raises very much doubts, as was the case with the criminal code before. At the same time, we have concerns about this extension of the time limit for the submission of a specific requirement for the protection of legality for certain former political offences in a broader sense, which are no longer limited to tax-related offences - this was required by the Constitutional Court, but the deadline was extended to 31.12.2012 and this was not required by the Constitutional Court. So, once again, under some obligation, with something that is acceptable and must be taken into account, Mr Sturm or his ministry brings some additional matters. In this law, with everything that Mr Sturm listed and was highly technologically linked to electronic commerce and I do not know what else, and it is entirely acceptable and justifiable, the courts must also adapt to new technologies, but there is something else for another contracting authority. Today, we have an extension of the range of beneficiaries to apply for the reinstatement of the criminal procedure after the death of the convicted person in the case of the criminal convictions referred to in Article 2 of the Law on the Correction of Blame, namely, blood relatives in the lateral line up to and including the third knee and legal representatives of registered religious communities, in the case of trials against priests, priests or monks and nuns of registered religious communities. Such amendments, if you remember correctly, were tabled or introduced at the end of 2005, when the Minister of Sturm extended this to legal representatives of registered religious communities and extended the deadline, thus allowing the Ljubljana diocese to submit a request in the case of Rožman. It is now introducing such changes in the area of renewal. On the other hand, on acceptable matters, there are things that certainly mean something different than everything that Mr Sturm has told us in his presentation. As it is said, since the law relates and is actually a function of a law that has not yet been passed, which is just as in the process, in the Liberal Democracy Club we consider that the law is not suitable for further consideration and that it waits as it should in line as other laws must await. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Zupan will present the position of the NSI Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Representative of the Government, colleague and colleague. The proposal that we have before us is the ninth amendment to the law on criminal procedure after 1994 and constitutes an amendment to the rules already in force, but does not give rise to systemic changes in the field of criminal procedure, but the changes relate to the information of the criminal procedure on the area of service and compliance with the law on judicial fees and the Penal Code, since the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act actually form an inseparable whole. The news brought by the novelty relates in particular to the protection of human rights. In restricting human rights, the Chamber of the Supreme Court will decide on the composition of the three Judges and the Chamber of five Judges will decide on the application for the protection of legality against the decision at the time of the extension of the detention issued by the Supreme Court. In cases where the injured person submits a motion for prosecution himself, he may submit a declaration of withdrawal to the State Prosecutor before the commencement of the criminal procedure. However, the provision also provides certain assistance to the victim of a crime of violence. However, for certain former political offences in a broader sense, the novelty gives the possibility to submit a specific requirement for the protection of legality, and the deadline for submission is extended to 31. 12. 2012, which we believe is also in line with the Constitutional Court's decision. The Novevo further extends the range of beneficiaries to apply for the renewal of the criminal procedure after the death of the convicted person in the case of the legal and judicial judgments referred to in Article 2 of the Law on the correction of wrongs. A service shall be introduced by means of a secure electronic route and compulsory service in an electronic drawer to the public authorities and other officials, the updating of the recording of proceedings and the submission of applications with the information system, the extension of the general time limit for the complaint from 3 to 8 days and the harmonisation of the terms of reference with the law on judicial fees. It also covers areas relating to the costs of recovery and fines. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the amendment because we see it in the light of greater efficiency of the trial and greater legal certainty, so we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration, and we welcome the efforts to prepare a new law in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u90	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree that any change that would provide more flexible and time-effective judicial procedures is more than welcome. We all know the current problems in our judiciary, which we want to address and enable all participants in judicial proceedings, including in criminal proceedings, as soon as possible and as effectively as possible, and fair, effective and, in particular, swift procedures. In our view, the bill before us contributes significantly in many places to the objectives mentioned above, in particular to the greater effectiveness of the trial and to legal certainty. A fairly logical step, given the situation in our society, seems to us to be a solution that foresees the delivery of court letters by electronic mail and the information recording of court actions. This will not be an exclusive way of being served in procedures, but a possibility. It is determined when such service is taken into account and the addressees will, in principle, have to require an electronic method of service from the court. Among other things, mandatory electronic service is provided in a safe electronic drawer, which would only apply to the service of public authorities, lawyers, judicial experts, valuers and interpreters. We are confident that this will make a significant contribution to more transparent procedures, and certainly also to red tape in the field of administrative work. Such a solution towards an information update requires a slow and well-planned introduction, which would be an important contribution to the speed of the court's operation in the long run. The bill provides for a range of solutions relating to different areas, both in the field of protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in the area of updating the service of judicial letters, in the area of updating the costs of judicial proceedings relating to judicial fees, intensification of the legal deadlines for lodging complaints against the decision and others. In particular, the solution to the extension of the deadline for lodging a complaint against a decision from three to eight days seems good to us because it allows a party to take the procedure a more suitable time for such an action, which is significantly more favourable than it has been for the past three days. The proposal for a law concerns certain other laws. For example, the Penal Code and the amendment of certain articles, as well as the law on the correction of wrongs. The harmonisation of these laws with the proposed amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act is necessary because of the coherence of our legal system and we have no comments in this regard. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we generally believe that this proposal is good and that it follows the needs of the judiciary, especially faster and more transparent procedures. In our opinion, the bill contributes to legal certainty and contributes significantly to the administrative burdens of the parties in criminal proceedings. We hope that fewer longer-term administrations can also influence too long-term procedures, one of the first objectives of our judicial system. Members from the Slovenian People's Party's Group see only good solutions in the draft law, which in the long term could certainly contribute to a more efficient process and therefore we support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by the winner, Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. That's a good-bye. We are against the adoption of this law in the Slovenian National Party. I think we have a lot of serious concerns about what this law is about. The government doesn't really know what it wants to do with this law. In our view, this is an extremely political change in the existing law on criminal procedure. In particular, it is proposed to extend the range of beneficiaries, such as to file a request for a reopenment of the criminal procedure for a mistrial or incompletely established factual situation following the death of a convicted person in the case of the criminal convictions referred to in Article 2 of the Criminal Procedure Act. This is also true for blood relatives in the lateral line, including the third knee, and worst of all, for legal representatives of registered religious communities, in the case of judicial proceedings against priests and priests or nuns and nuns of registered religious communities, in order to allow these persons to submit all exceptional legal remedies against the above-mentioned judgments. The application for renewal of the procedure will be open until 31.12.2012. One wonders where the Republic of Slovenia is today. In 1932, when the then Minister of the Interior and priest Dr. Korošec tried to subdue the entire Kingdom of Yugoslavia to the rule of the Roman Catholic Church, we were in an independent Slovenia in the 21st century, where some wanted to submit together to certain rights or wishes of the Roman Catholic Church. In our opinion it is that someone has sworn an oath to the Roman Catholic Church because he is a Maltese knight, and therefore he thinks that the oath of the Holy Church binds him to the oaths he made here in the National Assembly before this our departure to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is, we cannot agree that the Roman Catholic Church will "past" even more than it has already "past". No country in Europe from these emerging countries, whether from the former Yugoslavia or the Soviet Union or more, has given the Roman Catholic Church as much material goods as the Slovenian state. One wonders whether the Roman Catholic Church is primarily concerned about the souls of its believers or about the material welfare of its own, I would say, God’s servants on earth or the country that is making the fate of the Roman Catholic Church, which is primarily superior to it, is called the Vatican. I don't think we should agree to anything like this. Because given that this change is justified by the need to eliminate past political crimes, I ask you very much where we will come in this case, if we are to look so broad, so indiscriminately at everything! The following amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act will bring about the rehabilitation of Belogardist crimes and the conviction of the guerrilla movement. There are already attempts in the criminal code to do something similar, or not, I apologize, not in the penal code, but in this new proposal for a compensation law. There already criminalises the partisan movement and tries to get some compensation for what I know, "faroes", in which the white guard had its bases, from which they went to kill fighters for the independence and liberation of the Slovenian country. That's unacceptable! That's unacceptable! And this bill wants to take steps towards bringing Slovenia together to become, what I know, an exposition of the Roman Catholic Church, some state of Mary's society, where only Croatia might join. Even Poland resisted such a severe rush of swallowing the Roman Catholic Church. With us, however, civil servants work not for their country, not for their citizens, but for their foreign country, for the Vatican and for the citizens of that country. It's called the Vatican. I think that's unacceptable. And I think that if not sooner, if this law accidentally succeeds to go through here in the Slovenian Parliament, I fear that it will go through, it will be one of the first laws that will have to be amended after the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u93	The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Mr Boztjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respectable present. In the Lipa Group of the Procedural Law on Criminal Procedure, we will not support amendments and additions to the criminal procedure. Not because any of us would have any of these procedural laws or procedural laws, if ever released, either intentionally or not, but because the content is simply not appropriate. First thing. The functions of the investigating judges should be taken over by the prosecutors, which, according to the method of appointment, may constitute additional politicisation of the judiciary. Another time. The so-called e-mail service shall be introduced. Does that mean, Mr. Secretary, that when I'm on vacation for 14 days or a month, although rarely anyone else in this country can afford it, you're gonna give me something by e-mail, does that mean I'm being served? I'm gonna lose all the rights of the complaint, and my entire complaint will go anywhere. All this e-mailing that this government has designed has not started to basically provide all people with access to e-mail, to provide all people with a computer. In this law, among other things, you propose the so-called possibility of a videoconference hearing. I believe it will be yours, or not yours, but Mr Virant's step forward, even a virtual prison. I don't know, but this is where you're going, but if you look at the statistics a little bit, 75% of the households in this country have no computers, no internet. Maybe the computer is an old commodore, and you're still pushing for this electronics. On the other hand, people still prefer to hold letters in their hands rather than read them from a screen. All of these are reasons why this marriage cannot be established. And the fundamental reason you mentioned in the law, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Justice, you allowed what most of my opposition colleagues have already mentioned, namely the so-called re-establishment of the criminal procedure. And it is known that you favor one group of citizens or one institution in this country called the RDC. On a reasonable basis, we can all ask ourselves together whether we really need this, whether we need some new or some new procedures in order to find out what the current authorities are up to right now. Let's imagine, this knife can have a blade on both sides, because then someone else will have the same chance when a new authority comes and it will happen to someone you say is a saint, and others say he's a criminal, and it can happen to him that every year he's going to be something else. It's about determining the current authorities. Will you perhaps, after you have proposed a change to your own code in the opposition in the next term, not allow this to happen? Let's think about these things. Nothing can be done within five months of the election. You don't have to return everything in five months as long as we have to vote. You were four years old. You've been harassing this country for three years, and in five months, you want to do something not just for the saints, but for something else. But really, when I read article 48 of the bill, which regulates the new 244.a., it gives the possibility of a videoconference hearing. Tell me what practice you're putting this into. Which one of us in this house has ever had one such video conference? Let us make this a suggestion in percent before we vote for such nonsense. Which one of us has the equipment at home to do something like this? Because if he has such equipment, then virtual prison is not far from the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u95	Mr Minister, I believe that you know the procedure so well that your debate is not possible in the context of the presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. You have declared time, you will be able to use it at the end of the general debate of Members and Members. We have ended by presenting the views of the groups. As we say, we are going through a general debate between Members and Members. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. [[He's not here.]] Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. [[You're giving up.]] The word has magic. Janez Petty Officer. [[He's not here.]] Member Drago Koren has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. In my opinion, the proposed amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act are appropriate and it is right to adopt them. I will personally touch only some of these changes that it brings. The first case, which I think makes sense, is the electronic business of courts where we have the possibility of investing, writing, as well as accepting writings electronically. I don't see any fear here. Before that, one opinion expressed doubts and doubts as to how we can afford this, since so few people have a computer, access to the Internet. I don't think so. As far as I am aware of the data, Slovenia is one of the countries where computer ownership and Internet access have increased most in recent years. More importantly, the law does not make this mandatory, but it is only an option. I guess I can. Those who want to do so will also be able to operate electronically. I think that's one of the things that's very important. The second thing I want to say is a change in the heat. Decisions under the General Administrative Procedure Act are being served here, which has proved to be one of the most effective modes of service in all the practices so far. I also find it interesting to change that if the injured person does not come, he will not respond to the hearing or the main hearing to consider this to be a withdrawal of the application. We know that a lot of things are being filed, and I'm going to say things in haste, anger, and then things cool down after a while. I think this will also result in less judicial proceedings. The last thing I want to touch is, as it were, the trustees of minors. I think that this is a very important novelty brought by the law, that minors have the opportunity to choose one confidant who will at the most difficult times in their lives, and this is, say, at the hearing or at the main hearing of a minor in moral support and help to make it easier to endure even those difficult moments that he has experienced once before, do not let God on the part of his loved ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavko Gaber has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr. Secretary. Some of the debates so far and also the views of the parliamentary groups have been very quality, constructive. I cannot claim all of this, but there is at least my own personal explanation, where there was talk about everything else, but not the content of the proposal for a law on criminal procedure, but there I can understand that it is actually a recognition that the text of the proposal is good, but that it is difficult or impossible for fellow members of the opposition to confirm. We're talking about households, we're talking about some of the citizens of one country. We are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and we can be proud of that. But if someone is not proud of this, you may be free to choose a place to stay on earth. In my opinion, the current law on criminal procedure had to be amended in order to achieve greater effectiveness of the trial, as well as partly to amend or supplement it in terms of legal certainty. The proposed text of the proposed law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure brings the ninth amendment to this law after 1994. And it represents, in my opinion, a qualitative upgrade to the existing arrangements and does not represent any systemic changes in the field of pre-trial or criminal proceedings in terms of the impact on the rights of suspects, accused persons, accused persons or other parties to criminal proceedings. We live in an information society. This means that information technology is actually coming really into all times of human life. And why not make positive use of information technology also in the area covered by the Criminal Procedure Act. Of course, this technology needs to be defined precisely, precisely in the marriage text. The bill therefore introduces electronic commerce in criminal proceedings as well. Specific and precise information updates on the use of appropriate technical means for sound or sound recording of procedural actions are proposed. The proposed amendment of this Act introduces a file in electronic form, extending the time limit for a complaint against the decision from 3 to 8 days. I could also list the positive changes brought about by the novelties of this law. Above all, I am surprised that, on the part of some fellow Members, there have been so many demeanors or so many criticisms about the introduction of information technology in this area covered by the Criminal Procedure Act. My assessment is that the text of the law on criminal procedure is well prepared and is a good and appropriate basis for further parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. We're dealing again with someone we've already seen, if I may put it that way. Otherwise, I will not argue that some of the proposed changes could not be useful and necessary. On the one hand, however, the Minister has repeatedly stressed that he will relieve the courts of the proposed amendments and, on the other hand, reintroduce the possibility of some additional exceptional remedies and extend the range of beneficiaries. I hope to say that for reasons of ideological nature in particular, which is the problem that we have already encountered, and we are obviously destined to meet again in the future. On the other hand, the Ministry is already preparing a whole new law on criminal proceedings. I wonder, in fact, what kind of life does the minister or the ministry devote to this novel? Indeed, what has already been mentioned in the presentation of the views of our Group of Members. The Ministry of Justice and the Minister does not speak of any reform of the judiciary, but what we are faced with actually means that. We will see what the consequences will be, because the assessments we hear and for which we ask and ask always answer us, no, there will be no additional burden on the courts, everything is in the best order, because we know so well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u102	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues! I'll say blood isn't water. In fact, this sentence of blood is not water tells all about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure. If we really had the most democratic response, we would not have said "no" in the Slovenian National Party for the protection of the rule of law. But in the Slovenian National Party, we will never and will never say "yes" to this bill because of the requirement to reopen the criminal procedure. Blood isn't water. Where the blood passed, you can wash with ordinary water, but only with water. Never and never, it makes it very clear, the regulation does not stem from a Constitutional Court decision, there is no reopening of the procedure, there is no requirement for the protection of legality. He can't go, he can't go, so go back or anywhere else, ladies and gentlemen. It's not working. What's done is done. The charges were made. We all know who won World War II. We all know where this marriage is headed. Not at all. Let me tell you anecdotes. I visited the Slovenians in Argentina with all due respect and love them, regardless of their origin, whether it is political or economic migration. But I was happy to have a few dollars in my pocket to contribute them to the elderly, and I saw on the wall a picture of General Rupnik, two feet and a bishop of Rozman, and I turned around and I went out. And this law will not bring these images to me and to my image. He won't. No Rožman, no housekeeper, no swimsuit, no black arm, no one who was hiding in warm church, killing Slovenians, who was documented at the stadium of the Olympics football club behind Bežigrad, documented, hand in hand with SS officers and saying that he was fighting for Slovenia. I'm not a baby! This law seeks to make these people innocent by the rule of reinstatement of the criminal procedure. Never in my life as long as I live, as long as my children are alive, and God forbid I have grandchildren until my grandchildren are alive, I will never support this marriage. Not at all, ladies and gentlemen. That's a lot of rudeness. I appreciate that the laws are forming, you know that we are a very constructive opposition, we are for certain laws. For such that we will restore all that was ugly, dirty and never proven, and the whole world knows who won World War II, that I will now support this here, I speak as Bogdan Barovic on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, never, ever, ever, ever, forgive. All other articles yes, I have made a request to protect the legality of yes, but a request to reopen the criminal procedure never and never.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u103	The debate shall also include the Minister. The Minister's yours, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u104	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Let me first give you some explanations about electronic heat. Of course, this is not intended for ordinary citizens. All public authorities and bodies with public powers shall participate in electronic service or in electronic commerce in particular. Practically this means that this will apply to the prosecution and, of course, also to lawyers. A lawyer with public authority. However, if there is an individual who does not wish to cooperate electronically with the court in any way, then, of course, there is no such obligation and it cannot be. It can always turn to the court in a conventional way, in the usual way and also in such cases, service occurs in a normal manner and not in a digitised form via electronic reporting. Secondly, it is unusual to note the first presentation of the date for the correction of the wrongs. The date shall be fixed in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. That date was fixed by the Constitutional Court that year. The date is fixed and it was said that consideration should be given to this date. This is in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, it must only be said that the requirement for the protection of legality and the requirement for the renewal of the procedure are two equal remedies. I do not know, however, there are a great many honourable Members and Members who always advocate the enlargement of human rights for the correction of injustices. Does this mean that we do not recognize this right for a certain circle of stigmatized persons? Let us stand immediately and say, all the fine Slovenian Constitution and the principle of equality. Okay. But in particular, as you yourself said, for any of the 500 priests who were convicted in criminal proceedings after World War II, this right does not apply to them. Excuse me, this is against the Slovenian Constitution. That's discrimination. This should be made very clear and correct. It is the Slovenian Constitution that introduces the principle of equality for all and prohibits discrimination. That is, today we have heard here words of pre- and express discrimination and, even so I will say, a two-faced attitude of some Members who on the one hand advocate human rights, but on the other hand we have seen them, and in cold blood they deny them. It's an arbitrary, arbitrary group of people. That's what I have to say. That, of course, is the attitude that we have heard of changing judgment in any way through this law. That's not true at all. This is in any event in the hands of the third branch of power. If the National Assembly expresses such a position, of course it also expresses complete distrust and disrespect for the courts, for the third branch of government, for their independence and independence. The courts shall be those which, where possible, decide independently and independently. Their judgments must be adopted, not pre-eminently doubting the legal regularity of their decisions, or even preventing them from speaking at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u105	Thank you. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u106	Thank you very much for the floor, honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished representatives of the Ministry and, of course, the first man of this ministry, Mr Minister. The Slovenian Constitution speaks of human rights. But either you or your work, your statements go against it or they run counter to what the Constitution says. We should also be aware of human dignity. I recall at the time when I introduced a new Penal Code in early 2006, when I wanted to extend the limitation period for victims of the crime of sexual violence. At that time, the Minister, clearly and loudly, in black and white, wrote: "No, we will not go into this change, because in the next proceedings the matter would be even harder to prove." Today, in another law, you give an opportunity under Article 89 that, in the case of priests or religious servants, even their representatives within religious communities, but only registered religious communities, may open proceedings after so many and many years. Minister, you're hoping from this place to read out other people's ambiguity?Oh, my God! I will tell you another example of duality, which is allowed under your tactics to Slovenian citizens and citizens. I believe you remember the Shilih family. This is the family that sued the State of the Republic of Slovenia for having been wronged in the past. An alleged medical error led to the death of a young man. The State of Slovenia has not acted, the courts have not acted, the case has dragged on for more than 10 years, so long that the case is obsolete. But in this area you've done absolutely nothing or I apologize, I'm wrong. When the Shilih family complained to the European Court for the Protection of Human Rights or for human rights, the Court awarded them the benefit. The State of Slovenia is obliged to settle the damage to this family because it has violated its right, the right to a trial within a reasonable time. And what did you do, Minister Smurf? You complained. The State of the Republic of Slovenia has complained about the decision of the European Court of Justice, and even today it is seeking this family's settlement, financial settlement, even though this family has been harmed, injustice by the State, the Republic of Slovenia, our judicial system. It's a disgrace, and it's a duplicity. He is a small man, although I do not want to use those words, the man who is so weak in relation to the state institution. But that's obviously not your concern. Your concern is the priests. I hope that in a year, two will be on this list of those who can reopen procedures, closed criminal proceedings, including Mr Frantar. That would be another disgrace, your honor. I believe it's hard to look into your eyes because what you're doing is a real shame, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u107	Mrs. Žgainer, you can be pathetic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u108	Allow me one more thing, President. The minister also allowed himself to be seen as being double-crossed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u109	Excuse me! You can be pathetic. But it's not nice that you're insulting. I'm warning you again, I already warned you once.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u110	Double criteria. The State, the Republic of Slovenia, should pay EUR 7,800 for the injustice, but it complained. EUR 600 million will be the taxpayers of Minister Šturm's law to repair material damage in World War II. I believe there's a lot of pathetic stuff here. But this patheticity comes from the Ministry of Justice, which, by the way, at least to me or Members of the Lip Group, raises even the question whether the work of Minister Sturm is not a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u111	Thank you, not for the insulting words you said on the minister's account, but for sitting still. Mr. Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u112	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In fact, we are talking a lot today about - I am very sorry - Mr Minister Sturm and the laws he brings to the National Assembly. But it will have to be done again. Somehow it doesn't want to be heard, and in fact we never get an answer, why such a way of investing, first of all to make a law that is bound to another law that has not yet been passed. It's not the only law today. That's how it's gonna be. Even as he was in this term. In some ways, it is said that laws that are above these laws, for example, solve some of the problems. Another problem that I see here is what colleague Žgajner said about conflict of interest, or what he spoke about in some way also by colleague Barovic. It is always the case with other emergency solutions - whether required by the Constitutional Court or brought by life - with those that are in some way enlightened, even media support, advertising or as we would like to say that there are other changes that are not required by the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Not even life requires them. Not even a change in this civilizational environment. They're not even required by the Constitutional Court. But it requires them, as I said before, some other contracting entity. I highly doubt that this is a matter of concern for the priests, for the nuns, for the relatives, for the priests, because we also have this possibility of talking about registered religious communities. But it's about the church. So it's a matter of concern to an institution. Actually, it's a country in the country. And this matter has already begun with the famous Law on Religious Communities. With previous bypasses and bypasses, "bypasses", which touched other laws and brought at least one of the religious communities in Slovenia to a privileged position. Now he's trying to work things out again. This also applies to those laws that are foretold. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, every law we receive is passed with some benevolence. We say, "We'll look, we'll look. It is good that solutions are being prepared to seek solutions to problems that may have been neglected." But at the first slightly more accurate examination we see that each of these nests also carries a cowardly egg and that in fact all the attention is then focused on this added part and that all the victory is actually only in this added work. I don't think that's right. In fact, it seems to me that the legislation you are bringing into the legislative process you are proposing is directed directly at the country of Slovenia or at least at the expense of the state of Slovenia and the citizens. For most of the obligations arising in this way go from the state budget, from the tax money. This morning we talked about raising wages by €28 minimum. It was also explained that this is very dangerous for employers and so on. On the other hand, we wave numbers that are unimaginable to most people. 600 million. Well, today we learned that this would empty the SOD, the Slovenian Compensation Society. Probably also a court of some kind who would be happy to drink it after being granted the 200,000 or how minimal it is. But we're not talking about this law. The law we're talking about - I've already said that we're not going to support it because it's based on something that doesn't exist. Because, in fact, I can now imagine, however you like it, because its foundation is not yet there. And it's also a question of if it will. The second thing that comes along is, look, today from 9:00 a.m. to tomorrow. The first hour of the morning is the law coming from the Ministry of Justice. Here at the invitation for the 43rd session, I have 11 laws again concerning this area. And there are. Why is it necessary to do everything in the last days of the mandate to make life more difficult after this October? What's the will back here? I have to go back to what I said at the beginning, it's very dangerous if a judge decides out of anger, out of disappointment, out of a negative attitude towards the world. Of course, it's even worse if the one who proposes laws. Mr. Sturm, I think it would be good if you reconsider what you're doing. Think about it and don't play with people like with golf balls. You know what that means. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u113	Thank you. Mrs. Zupan has the floor. She's not here. Mr. Potts. He's not here either. There's a minister. Does the Minister want more? Here you go, Mr. Secretary!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I've already said something. But I think it's right now to say something else about the eyewitnesses who were directed at me personally. I'm turning down all the specs so I can do anything. The eyewitnesses were vague, under some other interest. But I suppose it was my membership in the sovereign Maltese Knightly Order. Once again, I say what I have said at a committee meeting that this has nothing to do with the legislative function and the proposed laws. For me, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is the primary. All these proposals that have been here today are in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia or, even so, I will say - the Constitution of the Republic is also a requirement. It is not possible to exclude in advance any community or legal personality which recognises the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia as a constitutional category. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia speaks of religious communities. He says their operation is free. He's talking about freedom of religion. These are constitutional rights. These are human rights. And it's totally impossible to deny anyone the right. This is not fair and, unfortunately, is an expression of deep-rooted prejudice that some political parties are exploiting for political purposes because they are so deeply rooted that they think it is in their best interests. Maybe you can play a game like this, but it's not a fair game. Above all, this is not a game according to what the Slovenian Constitution tells us, to which at least we as members of the government have sworn and which we also adhere to.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u115	Thank you. All the debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask: Does anyone else wish to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure? No, then I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, 27 March, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Point of the agenda - This is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the execution of criminal sanctions. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Joseph Školč requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Minister Lovr Šturm for the introductory explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! What are the essential changes and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions? This proposal aims to comply with nine existing laws, some of which require harmonisation, since 2002. Furthermore, the aim is to substantially reduce the unnecessary administrative burden of treatment workers in prisons, as achieved by the amendment of Article 8 of the ZIKS. This reduces the number of administrative cases in which the Administrative Procedure Act is subsidiaryly applied. Many cases that have so far been resolved by issuing an administrative decision will now be resolved in such a way that decisions on the demands of convicts and minors will be recorded in their personal plan. According to the law, this is an individual treatment program. This will ensure a more modern and modern treatment of prisoners and detainees, which is also in line with European prison rules, as well as with Council of Europe documents. More emphasis has been placed on alternative forms of punishment. The weekend punishment is newly possible for all convicts who are serving a sentence of up to twenty-four months. However, if they are personalised and are in a regular working or educational relationship. This is a form of criminal sanctions in which a convicted person works one week at a time and thus contributes to society and is in prison over the weekend. News of early release. The Director of the Institute will now have the right to dismiss a convicted person who behaves appropriately, works at work and actively participates in other beneficial activities after two-thirds and not more than three-quarters of the time. But not more than two months before the end of the sentence. The news is also in connection with the removal prison. A person who is incarcerated from prison may, in a new way, propose to replace the payment of the fine for the performance of the tasks for the general benefit only during his stay. However, the proposal must be decided by the court within eighty hours of receipt of the proposal. In addition, those who will be sent to the removal prison will, as a rule, remain in the prisons, where there will be the most spaces. The work of convicts is further stimulated in various ways. In such a way that prison benefits depend largely on the fact that the convict is working or not. A judicial security police is being established. In the near future, judicial officers will also ensure the protection of the buildings of the judicial authorities. The new ZIKS also contains provisions on the establishment of criminal records. It is also possible to check the data electronically. The legal basis for maintaining indelible criminal records for pedophiles shall be laid down. In drawing up the provisions on shipments received by convicts, the profession insisted that greater restrictions should be imposed on the law, which would increase the level of safety and significantly deplete the guards. The Ombudsman also warned that too many intoxicating substances were found in prisons. The current situation, when convicts receive more than 25,000 packages each year, is unsustainable and requires some changes. The conditions for official leave will be checked on an official basis. Finally, let me say that this is really a package of bill proposals. But they're all connected. That's not new. It's a common practice. Where one law is related to another, all these laws are adopted simultaneously in such a order that they also allow for their consistency. And that is exactly what the procedure is now. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u117	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Lavtizar Bebler has the floor to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! We have yet another law that represents an important part of criminal law. And the main part of this law deals with a very sensitive subject: enforcement of criminal sanctions. Especially those who take convicts from one of the fundamental human rights. This is freedom, freedom of movement and other important rights and fundamental freedoms. That is why it is so important to clearly define the rights of convicts and to ensure the protection of these rights. Some of the objectives and principles of the proposed law are therefore to be supported in principle. The proposal highlights the solutions to those issues provided for in the Statute of the International Criminal Court relating to the enforcement of the judgments of this Court in the event that the convicted person ends his sentence in the Republic of Slovenia. That is why this law should settle all those issues that the Rome Statute does not regulate. This also shows the proposaler's unstoppable intention to introduce the Rome Statute into our domestic legislation at all costs and in any way. Although the Rome Statute itself, in article 80, denies the necessary direct amendment to the national laws of the States Parties. The number of administrative cases in which the General Administrative Procedure Act is applied in a subsidiary manner is expected to be reduced. However, decisions on the demands of convicts and minors will be recorded in their individual programme of treatment. It is questionable whether this is acceptable and whether there is a significant reduction in the legal certainty and protection of the rights of convicts. There is no clear answer. In particular, the proposer shall consider the area of provision of spiritual and pastoral care for closed persons. As far as the rights of convicts are concerned - and this is certainly the case - there is a controversial added article which is intended to provide a basis for the detailed regulation of these rights in the sub-law. Especially since everything's still open here. Let me remind you that the proposaler is already engaged in intersectoral coordination of a new 'watcan agreement' on spiritual religious care in institutions and environments where the movement of the affected is legally or de facto limited. This law, like all others who come from the Ministry of Justice, also loosens the legal basis for collecting some additional personal data and documents on the convict. In short, a convict who, by the nature of the matter, has been severely affected by the enforcement of criminal sanctions, often even in his dignity, is becoming more exposed and his personal data are on the palm of his hand. It's also eloquent that we don't get married. These are questions relating to the rights of work, to the pension and disability insurance of convicts or to the duty of pension insurance by the Prisoner's Office which fulfil certain conditions of work. The legislation on invalidity pension insurance no longer provides such insurance for convicts. It is envisaged that if they were not sentenced to two years'imprisonment for the offence of sexual inviolability, the Director of Administration would have just talked to the Minister about this in order to be able to work or to be educated and to live at home in a week's time of absence, and would normally be in the institution at the end of the week. This, however, would in principle indicate support. However, based on the description of potential cases, it would be expected that greater pressure on the open departments of the institutions by convicts would be now. I'm afraid that's not the case in practice. On this weekend, for example, the court is to replace a prison sentence of up to six months with a house prison under the supervision of a court or a police officer who may at any time, even without the court’s request, check the execution of a house prison. The provision does not comply with the European recommendations on Community sanctions and measures. These recommendations - for example - underline the importance of the defendant's participation. They ensure that there is no longer a need for control, as is actually and urgently necessary. They emphasize the agreement of the family. Especially qualified surveillance personnel and so on. In some other proposed provisions, it is not clear that the proposaler would be involved in European prison rules. But he paid more attention to how to strengthen the situation and how to enforce more order and repression. In this regard, instead of the officers so far, judicial officers who are armed, uniformly uniformed and bearing positions shall be introduced. The powers and powers of the latter shall also be extended. Justice officers are also following the fugitives of a protected person. Without a court decision, they may enter foreign residences and other premises as they pursue the escape of a protected person. They may identify persons who come or leave protected facilities. They may also carry out a personal examination of the visitor of a closed person and have the right to use coercive means during the performance of their work. All these envisaged changes are questionable in terms of proportionality with constitutionally protected human rights and with constitutionally permissible restrictions on those rights. Of course, it is particularly disturbing that many of the proposed amendments are based on those amendments to the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, which are not covered by a broader social and professional consensus. Therefore, such a law, as proposed, could not be supported in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u119	Thank you. Mrs Zupan has the floor to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u120	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respectable. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions was adopted as part of criminal law as the last in a series of laws in 2000, and fully governs the enforcement of all criminal sanctions. However, in practice, certain needs for change were then demonstrated. In particular, because certain arrangements allow for different interpretations or are under-approached. It is also necessary to comply with the Act on Offences, which entered into force in 2005, and which introduced a fundamental reform of criminal law. This is said to be the abolition of a prison sentence and the abolition of a prison. In the amendment of the law, the proposer relies on the principle of legal certainty, achieved through compliance with existing laws and binding international treaties and the principle of economics and speed in administrative law. The Republic of Slovenia, which has committed itself to respect and enforce the judgments of the International Criminal Court, must regulate in the relevant law those matters which are not governed by the Statute of the International Criminal Court. This is about the execution of a sentence against an International Criminal Court convict who will remain with us. In accordance with the principle of economics and speed, the administrative procedure will regulate certain matters that have now been resolved by issuing an administrative decision. This is a decision on the demands of convicts and minors. This will relieve the professional and other workers in the prison for sentences and foster homes. A law that has so far not explicitly regulated the areas of providing spiritual and pastoral care for imprisoned persons. Spiritual care is now provided. However, it must also be brought into line with the rules of the United Nations on the treatment of convicts and European prison rules. The novelty further provides some additional explanations of the provisions which have not been sufficiently specified. In the New Slovenia Group, it seems good that the novel strengthens disciplinary measures and communication of prisoners. We're talking about phone calls here, shipments. Because too many times, their lives have been overly dissolved. The situation in the area of prison work is improving, which has been stimulating. It's about more vacations, more pay. A new institute is in place on weekends of sentences for those who are personalized, have regular work or schooling and are not convicted of crimes against sexual inviolability. However, it introduces the possibility of expelling a convict if it is suspected that the convict is hiding objects in his body. Like drugs, escape items, etc. The precision of the provisions and their more precise formulation and compliance with the relevant legislation can only improve the enforcement of criminal sanctions for all participants in this process. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group, we support and consider the proposal to be a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u122	Mr. President, thank you for noticing me. Dear fellows and fellows! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we requested a general discussion on this law. Just thinking he'll come around later. So, at least after the procedure has been completed, there will also be issues concerning the criminal code. We have examined the law and found that it mainly regulates and defines all the solutions and questions provided for by the Statute of the International Criminal Court and that they relate to the enforcement of the judgments of this court even if the convicted person were to end his sentence in a country outside Slovenia. Then there are solutions that reduce the number of administrative cases in which the General Administrative Procedure Act is subsidiaryly applied. In such a way as to resolve cases that have so far been resolved by issuing an administrative decision, their decisions on the demands of juvenile convicts will be recorded after a special treatment, a special procedure, a programme. A third area that has not been explicitly regulated by law so far is the area of providing spiritual and pastoral care for imprisoned persons, although this matter is, of course, already regulated. However, some things are still open and will probably remain open even after the state is not concerned, but concern more religious communities and their willingness to participate. But, as has already been said in the previous law, many adjustments and solutions are linked to the anticipated changes in the penal code, which was still at first reading today. And that's why what we said before is true. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will not, of course, adopt legislation in such a way that we do not want to adopt legislation in such a way that the subsequent laws are first adopted, and then, on the basis of these or as arguments for system law or system law or roof legislation, of course, the arguments in the laws that have already been bound by any other law's proposals are used. Mainly, the matter which the Ministry of Justice continues to complicate, continues to force and rape here in the National Assembly with its vision of a solution and, of course, that it always or very often brings laws in packages, in bundles and thus forces at least coalition Members of course to think through the system of dominoes that they set up. And we know that dominoes usually fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u124	Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions is fully governed by the scope of enforcement of criminal sanctions. However, this does not mean that on the date of its entry into force all its provisions in practice have achieved their purpose. As with some other laws in the judicial field, certain shortcomings have also been demonstrated in this law. The reason for the adoption of the amendment bill is not only these shortcomings but also, of course, all the amendments made to the other laws, which are in any way related to criminal law and also to the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions Act. In this case, therefore, there is a need for coordination with a view to bringing the whole package of so-called judicial legislation into practice. And more importantly, it has had a positive impact on the system of our criminal law. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, as we think the reasons for it, as stated by the proposer, are appropriate and good. It has been shown that the enforcement of criminal sanctions has not always been the most professional and rule-based. They were also repeatedly questioned about the rights of convicts. Or, to put it another way, procedures have not always taken into account the principle of economics and speed, which is, not only in this bill, but in general, in the judiciary, one of the desired objectives. Amendments to the law are expected to reduce the number of administrative matters, as some cases that have so far been resolved by issuing an administrative decision will be dealt with in a different way. And so significantly burdened the professionals with leading administrative procedures in favour of a larger part of these workers with convictions. It is also important to bring our law into line with the international legal order and the Statute of the International Criminal Court. This indicates in particular the need to recast the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions in the direction of urgency and currentity. An example of this is the need to regulate the enforcement of the sentence of convicts of an international criminal court who would remain in our country. An important aspect of any prison sentence is the socialization aspect. The essence of a prison sentence is not only a sanction as such, but a possibility of a socialisation impact on an individual. From this point of view, it is the task of each institution to prepare the professional staff of the convicts adequately for life after release, to re-enter the environment and to deal with the problems that follow. This aspect of social inclusion planning, together with professional staff, also seems to the Member of the SLS Group to be an extremely important part of the passing of the sentence itself. We also agree with some of the changes because, from a technical point of view, we think they are more appropriate. And also in the terminology field, such as the replacement of an individual treatment programme, is replaced by a personal plan. Instead of punishment, it is replaced by a word of sanction and so on. These are minor changes, though. However, they do contribute to more appropriate terminology. As already mentioned, Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party believe that the bill is a good one. Therefore, the proposal for a law seems appropriate for further consideration and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr Davorin Terčon will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Government, or Minister of Justice Dr. Lovro Šturm, has sent in a legislative procedure a proposal to amend the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, which is intended to regulate this area in its entirety. The aim of the bill is to ensure the effective, economical and professional enforcement of criminal sanctions, a clear definition of the rights of convicts and the protection of those rights. One of the innovations is the introduction of law enforcement officers to replace the guards. In addition to classical work, these officers would also perform security services in all the courts in our country. In this case, we find in the Parliamentary Group that there is another proposal for a law prepared by the Minister of Justice following a consistent recipe, which, like the Penal Code and the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act, has been carried out practically in complete secrecy. We note that the proposed text is too extensive for the scope of the novel, as it contains over 100 articles amending around 260 articles of the current law. However, we have not overlooked the fact that the first responses were extremely negative, as even the government's legislative service, which has previously similarly assessed the amendment of the Penal Code, has assessed the proposed changes as devastating. If we quote Dr. Janez Pogorelec, Head of the Law Service: "We believe that a new law should be drawn up which will provide for more modern regulation than they want to enforce with the novel. Let the bill also contain an explanation that will actually help to understand the law." In the opinion of the government service, it is also problematic that the amendments introduce new concepts which are not mentioned in the proposal. For example, it's about bringing in the justice police. Although it is not clear from the proposal why introduction would not be necessary and who these persons are. All that can be understood is that law enforcement officers are both guards and instructors. At the same time, despite ambiguities, the scope of the powers of judicial officers is widening compared to those of the current prison guards. We further point out that the concept of the judicial police, whose introduction is proposed, must first be clarified. This is clearly a misinterpretation of the concept and role of the police in the enforcement of criminal sanctions. For example, the police of the judiciary in France consists mainly of representatives of the gendarmerie and the police. Their tasks, however, are to detect criminal acts, to gather evidence and to detect perpetrators. In France, the judicial police are closer to the relatives of our criminal police and are not intended, for example, to protect the courts, judges and others. The same is true of the German regime or of the Swiss or Austrian regime. It is true, however, that in the United States, for example, the tasks related to determining the execution of the trial itself, such as the bringing of the accused and the protection of the judge, the tasks performed by the U.S. court-martials, are something common. Of course, the latter arrangement is not comparable to our arrangement. In particular, since the Novela Act on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions should be in line with a comprehensive recast of the criminal procedure, which is still in public debate. We also believe that the introduction of the judicial police and the placement of some of the staff who have so far carried out the tasks of the education service into the police has resulted in a repressive attitude towards the entire system of enforcement of criminal sanctions. The instructors have so far taken care of the professional and work training of convicts and participated in the implementation of the treatment programmes. It is therefore incomprehensible that they are classified as police officers. It is not surprising, therefore, that the novel has also led to disappointment for some of the penologists who point out the limitation and intensification of the control of prisoners' rights and the increased use of coercive and restrictive measures. Despite this, we are aware that the problem lies elsewhere in the order or structure of the crimes committed and detected and the associated profile of the perpetrators and, as a result, the prisoners who are increasingly difficult and increasingly difficult to manage. The new situation therefore requires additional tasks. We are convinced that more than legal changes should be provided for the proper number of guards and other professional workers. It is appropriate to educate them, train them, train them, equip them modernly and pay them appropriately. All detention facilities are overloaded. There's almost no room for those who have been deprived of their liberty. That is why the situation is even more concerned, as the already modest living space of the imprisoned is shrinking. Tensions and conflicts are increasing between them and, as a result, prison personnel. We must not forget the large number of behaviourally disturbed and asocial figures who would be more of an appropriate psychiatric institution and not a prison or at least a suitable hospital unit that would be part of the prison system. Poor housing and overcrowding in prisons exacerbate working conditions and increase the work of employees sharing fate with prisoners. We therefore expect the Minister in particular to provide material opportunities for a person worth working and living in the entire prison system. Unsatisfactory working conditions and poor pay do not ensure the acquisition and employment of staff capable of performing tasks professionally and correctly and developing a penological profession. That's why we won't support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! In the broadest sense, criminal law is characterised by the strong systemic integration of all institutions in this area. Change of one requires adjustment of the other. Therefore, it is reasonable to address the whole issue in a concise, thoughtful way that solutions will be prudent, effective and, above all, that they meet all the criteria of general legal principles. Especially because criminal policy allows for the deepest interference with human rights. On the other hand, it sets limits for her. The regulation of the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions is bound and conditioned by other criminal and criminal rules, which have recently been amended. However, these changes have not yet been followed by an appropriate harmonisation of the scope of enforcement. This undoubtedly means an obstacle to the effective and successful conclusion of the prosecution of perpetrators of crimes and offences. However, there are still so many difficult, even drastic changes in criminal law, which will result in radical changes to the applicable regulatory framework for the resolution of criminal sanctions. In this regard, Members of the DeSUS have already raised concerns and scepticism about the newly proposed institutes when considering the preliminary proposals of the law. Doubts also arise with regard to this law. In particular, the questionable security standards and spatial capacity of Slovenian prisons are on the ground, where, according to the proposal of the law, convicts of the International Criminal Court are also to be sent or, in other words, the worst criminals under international criminal law. In the DeSUS Group, however, we do not doubt the appropriateness of the other innovations, which will be introduced by a number of proposed amendments and amendments to the law. We are assessing that the proposed regime for the cessation of prison sentences and the enforcement of criminal sanctions follows the practical experience of both pennologists and other professions in this area and achieves an appropriate degree of democraticism and rule of law in our country also in this sector of penal policy. We support the amendment in the work that highlights alternative forms of prison sentences, as it is estimated that they will contribute significantly to reducing the overcrowding of Slovenian prisons, which, after all, also causes a shortage of staff, overcrowding of workers in detention facilities and high spending of budgetary resources. With this aim, the bill introduces new ways of putting an end to the current sentence or is now possible, but relatively rare, implementation of the form, such as the so-called weekend penalty. The possibility of house arrest is given. In accordance with the Law on Offences, the current shortcomings of the current regime regarding the form of enforcement of the legal penalty imposed are also addressed under the Act on Offences. The penalty for removal shall be regulated in a way that will in practice be possible to enable persons to remain in this type of sanctions to be held in open and semi-resistance compartments where there is actually more free capacity. The closed departments will therefore be designed to stop convicts who have committed crimes within the meaning of the Penal Code. Given that the novelty brings a set of solutions that, according to our assessment, will have a significant and positive impact on the purpose of penology and the socialisation of convicted persons, we note that the proposal is suitable for further consideration. We are also convinced that it is possible to think twice about solutions and find more appropriate solutions through expert opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the Ministry. It's a long day for you, and we'll see each other tomorrow. That's our job. Colleagues and colleagues, the package and many important laws are ahead of us and we simply follow their content and how constructive or unconstructive you are. In the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, I overlooked the first article on expression. I'll take that as a nomotech. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we have dedicated ourselves to the Statute of International Criminal Law, to amendments to reduce administrative matters and to provide spiritual and pastoral care for closed persons. First of all, we were asked the question: Why did the International Criminal Court determine, why, if they are, should we put them specifically in our law? Okay. And we have been looking for an answer and we have seen that the execution of the judgments of the court in the event that the convicted person ends his sentence in Slovenia - the Republic of Slovenia as a state bound to respect and enforce the judgments of the International Criminal Court - must regulate issues that the Statute of the International Criminal Court does not regulate in the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. And then I went back to that text. I'm sorry. I don't understand him. Why do we have to regulate in our law what the International Criminal Court does not provide? Okay? I was wondering. Okay. We need to determine something. And as I continue to read, I will come back to the following - I will use really Slovenian - differences that speak of the issue of the execution of sentences, prisons in our country being settled in this article or in this law in Article 2. And when I read it, I'll find out the following. I'm comparing hypothetically. Colleagues and colleagues, we're not in Guantanamo. Slovenia receives from the International Criminal Court people who are held in prisons. And it's nice or it's ugly to feed them. Take care of them. If this prisoner, under the Statute of the International Criminal Court established in Slovenia, does not like anything, he shall appeal to the International Criminal Court. This one pleases him or not. But he still asks Slovenia to take care of him. And we come once again - I speak metaphorically - to Guantanamo. We take care of the man. We're human beings. Thank God. Let him have normal living conditions. But why us, why us? And the International Court of Justice rejects all his complaints and leaves them in Slovenia in our penal institutions and goes. And Slovenia is worried. All that a prisoner can do is go to an international court. And this is the next question that arises in the Slovenian National Party. So if you only have the right to an international court, I am really interested, ladies and gentlemen: Why, if he is entitled only to an international court, do we have to introduce the rules of the game into Slovenian law? I would understand that we are introducing the rules of the game into Slovenian law if I had a prisoner who, according to the Statute of the International Criminal Court, was transferred and agreed that we should take care of it in Slovenia. I understand that. But he can only complain to an international court, speak and speak only with an international court, justice and injustice seeking only with an international court, but we Slovenians are changing laws and taking care of them. I'm sorry. I could be a butthead. I don't see logic here. Next question, I won't be here long. Reducing administrative matters. I would be happy if the administrative decisions were replaced by the so-called individual treatment programme. I'm very purist, as far as the language is concerned. Also a respected colleague who's just arrived. But if you ask me what this means for an individual treatment program - treatment means behavior, an individual treatment program. The equation of what? I went to the following articles of the law, including article 46 of the proposed law. Okay, I'm not gonna read it because that's what we had to do if you wanted to or not read it yourself. Amendments to reduce administrative matters. I understand you want to cut them. But I don't understand the content of how to reduce it. From the decision to issue administrative decisions, we are moving on to an individual treatment programme. It means decommissioning the professional and other employees of institutions for the cessation of sentences from prison and home. On the other hand, we talked about it so much today. I have personally been the second term, the first term, I am happy to say, a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice, and I have been with the previous Minister in two prisons, where I have heard quite the opposite with respect for the valuable attitude of workers in these prisons. How they're missing. Missing, missing, missing, missing, missing, missing. Missing from the Age, missing in Koper. I was personally there for the previous term. I'm not reading anything to this government. Missing, missing. We are reducing through this law something that is desperately missing. I believe the workers who are there are missing. I believe because I've seen what this prison means, how many people there are, what the structure of the building is, and what it takes to do 24 hours a day with these people. I was there myself. So I don't think about it. And I'm not clear on point two. Point three, provision of spiritual and pastoral care. The state is democratic. Everyone has that right. I think they already have it. Emphasis is also given because he says: "The right to spiritual care in institutions for the passing of sentences and imprisonment is now guaranteed to all convicts. However, this area needs to be systematically and normatively regulated in a way that will be most effective in the light of the Slovenian situation, the religious definition of closed persons and in accordance with international standards. This must be based on the minimum rules of the United Nations to deal with convicts and European prison rules. The proposed amendment of the law is also an article which provides the basis for the detailed regulation of these rights in the sub-law." We asked ourselves again in the Slovenian National Party. "Okay.", okay. They're rules. Everyone has a right. Anyone can be a believer. It can be Islam. He could be a Christian. It could be Hindu. It could be anything. It's a submarital act. Is it? Where is he? What's he like? What's he gonna be like? What's he up to? You know, I respect that this country is trying to follow international game rules. But you must understand that Slovenians and Slovenians can also read between lines. We can read between lines, and sometimes we can even ask ourselves about things that you think will pass. It's not coming through. If the International Criminal Court has determined that all convicts imprisoned in Slovenia have rights only after this international court, why change our law? I don't know. Secondly, if we want to reduce administrative matters, because, once again, I am a personal witness to the lack of personnel taking care of prisoners, there will be more if we look at the first law that we have discussed today, which we have in the Slovenian National Party or which we do not oppose, the devil. And speaking of spiritual and pastoral care. It's okay. Let it be that we're still working, I don't know what kind of submarital acts. I mean, what, why? In the Slovenian National Party, we simply do not understand that the provisions of the International Criminal Court, which apply to all prisoners sent to Slovenia by the International Criminal Court, are 100% solely to them, not to Slovenian law. And now we are adapting our rights to this. I mean, I'm sorry, in the Slovenian National Party we can't propose a law amending and supplementing the law on the basis of these - I'm not talking about Article 1, about names, about renamings - we can't because we can't completely. Well, since I'm already reading this law, look, whatever I want, I'm sorry, maybe I'm stupid or I'm in a Slovenian national party, and I probably don't understand any other person who doesn't understand. I just don't understand why you're working from what already exists, something new. And then come back and do something new that's gonna get worse than it used to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable assembly, distinguished representatives of the government. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support all those amendments and additions to criminal law that improve the legal basis for simplifying procedures for the more effective implementation of criminal proceedings. This set of amendments to the laws of criminal law also includes the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of criminal penalties, which removes certain administrative obstacles to the conduct of public authorities. In particular, the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, the security requirements in prisons resulting from the entry into the Schengen area, which also results in increased burdens on prisons, and thus a pressing problem which is highlighted by the practice of enforcement of criminal sanctions. In addition, some shortcomings or solutions to individual provisions of the existing law have also been demonstrated in practice. As a result, there are different interpretations in its implementation. In view of all of this, the proposed amendment to the Act follows the fundamental objective of enforcing criminal sanctions as legally and professionally as possible, with a very clear definition of the rights of convicts and ensuring the protection of those rights. The principle of legal certainty shall also be implemented by aligning the legal dictatorship with existing laws and binding international treaties. However, the principle of economics and speed in administrative law is also being implemented through a reduction in the number of administrative cases in which the General Administrative Procedure Act is subsidiaryly applied. The proposed solutions to the amendment of the law, which we support in our parliamentary group, because some of them seem urgent to us and some of them are improving the current solutions. In this way, we can push the solutions into four sets. Firstly, because of the legal obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to respect and implement the judgments of an international court, the amendment of the law introduces those solutions which are provided for or by the Statute of an international criminal court and which relate to the enforcement of the judgments of that court in the event that the convicted person ends his sentence in Slovenia. It is not possible to apply those provisions that apply to convicts who are serving sentences under our laws. Another time. Taking into account the principle of economics and the speed of the administrative procedure, the number of administrative matters is reduced by introducing in the amendment of the law those changes and solutions that will be resolved in matters for which an administrative decision has been taken so far, so that decisions on the requirements of convicts and minors are addressed in their individual programme. As a result, experts and other officials of the institutions will be relieved of their penalties in the management of administrative procedures in order to increase the scope of their professional work. Third time. In accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and with international standards and commitments, the amendment of the law systematically and normatively regulates the provision of spiritual and pastoral care for prisoners in such a way as to enable every convict under the same conditions to carry out religious activities irrespective of his religious beliefs and the membership of the religious community. And some changes to the terminology themselves are being introduced. The concrete amendments and additions to individual legal provisions complement and clarify the current provisions, which, in the view of our Group, are still essential for the way and quality of life, work and stay of convicts in juvenile prisons. More emphasis is also placed on alternative forms of prison sentences, which will result in a reduction in prison overcrowding. I cite some solutions that we find meaningful and good especially for the well-being of prisoners. The weekend penalty shall be allowed for all convicts who are serving a term of up to 24 months. It's been up to six months. The work in general benefits the local community is legally responsible for participating. For education, the law defines the same status as that of work. Compulsory information from the Centre for Social Work will reduce the possibility of unduly receiving financial social assistance. Special Health Commissions shall be established. Attention is increasing for the housing situation. The amount of the compulsory savings shall be reduced. The police will be responsible for the recovery of the costs. And other substantive changes and additions that have been heard before today. Some, however, are mere editorial in nature. In our Group of Members, we find that the proposed solutions to the amendments to complement and harmonise are appropriate. However, some are also very urgent if we want to make the enforcement of criminal proceedings more effective. Of course, in the context of legal certainty, with a clearer definition of the rights of convicts, ensuring the protection of these rights, and better regulation of the work and residence of prisoners. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will support the proposed conclusion that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions is appropriate for further consideration. In further legislative procedures, it will also support possible substantive improvements to individual legal provisions that will be drawn up on the basis of constructive discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u133	Thank you. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. I give my word to Mr. Koren. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to Members of Parliament and also to visitors on the balcony from Mozir, if I am well informed. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions seems to me that the changes it brings will result in at least some improvement in the enforcement of these sanctions. I agree with my colleague Barovic, who said a little earlier about the situation in prisons, that our prisons are overloaded. Of course, I will also ask myself at this point why our prisons are so full and what we need to do as the Slovenian Parliament in order to avoid so many violations, so many crimes that the prisons are less full, less burdened. If I touch on some of the changes introduced by the law, these changes, which are dictated by the rest of the legislation adopted, I do not think it is problematic that this law should follow the changes of the other laws. The fact that the law reduces the administrative burdens of employees in prison, I think it is very good. That the administration should be reduced to the least necessary measure. I also have to say, this novel that she's bringing, it sounds good - a weekend in prison. I have to say, the first time I got a little deeper, it was kind of weird. I thought it was so easy that one prisoner could serve his prison sentence only on weekends. But when you really think about it, I think it's one very important thing. It is said that a convict who is employed, who works or who goes to school, that some of his reckless actions can be performed only on weekends, is a very good thing. The problems that arise in our prisons are also mail, packages and so on. We know - there have also been several speeches about this, and newspapers have also written - that drugs are also a major problem in our prisons. And I think it is right that certain measures be strengthened, as far as mail is concerned, by packages to try to prevent the introduction of drugs, as well as mobile phones and these matters into prisons as much as possible. Sometimes it sounds even a little exotic that some convict, with the ugly word of a criminal, is leading a variety of criminal cases outside the prison. I think that such matters need to be completely prevented. Someone mentioned the possibility of working in prison earlier. Personally, this seems to be the most important thing to try to ensure that prisoners do their job, if possible. Many times, the right to work seems to be an insignificant right, but I think it is also very important and very useful for the prisoner if he is able to work. I think that this law must also be directed in this direction in order for the prisoners to actually have this opportunity for useful work, but I will say that they would also have the possibility of self-sustainment, not materially, in the natural world, but that they could also earn self-sustainment. Someone mentioned earlier that the prisoners were deprived of their basic rights, that's freedom. The prisoner is indeed deprived of his freedom, but it is not right to stop at this, but it is necessary to ask why someone is deprived of his freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor. For I call only those who are on the list and you are present, so beware, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm only going to talk about two questions or I'm going to talk about one, I'm going to talk about the other. With regard to what I will mention, I will simply say that I would ask the Ministry to make a slightly more precise assessment of the financial implications of the bill in the future. The first paragraph stated: "The bill has no financial implications for the state budget and does not affect other public funds." In the second, "The new law will have a short-term financial impact, according to the proposaler's assessment." I think it would be wise to harmonise one paragraph and the other, but above all to write whether the law would have any other consequences. Otherwise, I would ask you, Mr President, to be equally precise in the proposals made by the Government. Because you're rejecting the law, if it's not very accurate after all the elements it requires, it's ready. It's an improperly imposed law. Now, one question, which is substantive and shows not so much in the way of resolution as how important one question seems to the competent ministry. It is a matter of supplementing the law by explicitly regulating the spiritual care of prisoners. Let me tell you immediately that there will be no doubt. We have nothing against the spiritual care of the priests. The spiritual care of prisoners is regulated and established in our practice. However, I am asked whether and in what laws it must be regulated in order for the current Government to do so. We have a so-called Vatican agreement or agreement with the Holy Office on legal issues, which states in Article 12, paragraph 1 of Article 12: "The Republic of Slovenia guarantees full respect for religious freedom for individuals in hospitals, nursing homes, prisons and other institutions where the free movement of persons in them is hampered. We know that the so-called Vatican Agreement has been ratified and that this is an integral part of the international treaty of the Slovenian legal system. When we passed the Law on Religious Freedom, we wrote in Article 24 of the chapter Religious Spiritual Care in the Departments of Persistence, and we have determined that persons who, on the basis of a court decision, have been deprived of their liberty or have been restricted to movement and are in the institution of detention, education, educational home or training institution have the right to regular individual and collective religious spiritual care. We've settled this issue in a different law, in my opinion. We have this right to do so also in agreement with the Slovenian Bulgarian Office and the Government of Slovenia. In addition, in October 2007, the Government drafted a proposal for an agreement to be concluded specifically with the Holy Headquarters on certain issues as an additional international treaty under the Vatican Agreement. This is an agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters on religious spiritual care in the defence forces and the police and in the Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, which was later, at least according to our information, unless otherwise the matter in the Government has been suspended. I want to say that in the three existing acts we have this possibility guaranteed and it is right that we have it. Why do we need to deal with this in the following way that I think is bad and also questionable in terms of legal correctness? See, the proposer of the proposal, this is an explanation, is a substantive supplement to the law and, with this addition, expressly guarantees the right to provide spiritual care, so that any convict who wishes to do so can, under the same conditions, be able to carry out religious activities. That's okay. However, whatever their religious beliefs, I am not sure whether I understand or belong to a particular religious community. Everyone should be assured that they are exercising their religious beliefs. But if they are not faithful, then perhaps the provision of pastoral care is not necessary and is not justified. And then, without any conditions being laid down as to what I think they should be, the Minister of Justice is given the power to regulate in more detail the implementation and implementation of the spiritual care of the convicts or, in other words, to settle the matter at all, because this general provision in the law is simply not regulated. I suggest that we consider such solutions in the law simply because they are not legally correct. They show the Government's wish not to forget at any point that it is necessary to arrange this several times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u138	Since this is a general debate, it is particularly necessary to hear from the competent authorities what they meant by individual provisions. However, the section says with regard to the amendments to Article 8 that, if the text proposed in Article 8 in the explanatory memorandum applies, the question is why the only description of the cases where the weekend in prisons could have ended is why this was not possible already. The special issue I have at this weekend is the great competence of this president or director of administration. Second, house arrest. The question of the probing service or the question why Slovenia still does not have a probation service? Or how and how will control of this house prison be exercised? Thirdly, what colleagues have already said is a major dilemma with the sole explanation of individual articles, both financial and then the whole philosophy of the introduction of the so-called special police. I'd like you to answer that very carefully. However, since we are in the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, I cannot go beyond a parallel that I would like to be commented on by the Ministry's representatives. The parallel is next. The proceedings are closed in court. The Court clearly finds that the accused must be taken to prison. Do the guards have any possibility of an alternative question from the court, or should the defendant be taken to prison? You'll ask where the parallel is. Parallel to the Court of Auditors’ decision that a minister is a minister, that someone has violated something and that the guard must carry out his task. I wonder, representatives of the Ministry, whether it is possible for a guardian under the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions to question whether the judgment is justified. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u139	Thank you. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Marolt, would you like a word? You have a chance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I listened with interest to this debate about this marriage. Perhaps he would answer certain questions that were raised immediately. On the question raised by Mr Barovic on the International Criminal Court. Here I must remind the honourable Member and others that, in the previous term, the National Assembly has already adopted a law on cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the International Criminal Court, and, if I recall, Mr Barovic was also a member of the mandate of the previous composition of the National Assembly. As Mr Minister mentioned at the outset, this amendment of the law is in line with nine existing laws, so it is also in line with this law on cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the International Criminal Court, or complements this law by its content. With regard to the issue of the provisions of the law raised by Mr Barovic, or the question of individual personal treatment, or "individual treatment programme", I must stress that we are replacing this dictatorship with an individual treatment programme with the term "personal plan". It is also a matter of updating and modifying terminology in accordance with these modern penitentiary guidelines, as we must not forget that representatives of Slovenian prisons as well as administrations for the enforcement of criminal sanctions, consisting of both the types of treatment workers and the types of guards and other employees, participated in the drafting of this law. Here we must also stress that the law also follows modern European guidelines on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, as well as similar arrangements as developed traditional European countries, such as Austria and Germany. On the issue of security, which has also been exposed, or on the issue of security. Here we must be aware of what the Ombudsman also points out, you can read in one of the Slovenian daily newspapers, about the issue of prohibited entry and prohibited substances, it is said that drugs, drugs and other prohibited substances have been detected in Slovenian prisons. It is precisely this new law that contains a number of solutions that will undoubtedly prevent or at least make it difficult to introduce prohibited substances into prison facilities, as well as a statutory restriction on the ban on the introduction of packages or restrictions on the introduction of packages. On the other hand, it also allows prison staff to facilitate their detection and disposal. Regrettably, the current practice has not proved sufficient and appropriate under the current legislation. The proposed novel creates, on the other hand, a legal basis for ensuring greater security in the prisons of both prisoners and closed staff. As mentioned earlier. The so-called house prison is also possible. A weekend of punishment is also possible. Newly, this is possible or will be possible for convicts who will remain in prison for up to 24 months, are personally regulated and are also in a regular work or educational process, i.e. sentenced to imprisonment for up to two years. This is a form of criminal sanctions in which a convicted person works one week at a time and thus contributes to society and is in prison over the weekend. On the other hand, for prison, this type of execution means a lower cost as well as a significant relief of the spatial hardship in Slovenian prisons. The same is true of other alternative methods and methods of execution of sentences, as it should not be forgotten that the daily care of one person in prison or in prison is based on data from the year before, according to data from 2006, Slovenian taxpayers from 60 to 65 euros. If only for information, if we are looking at a removal prison when someone is in prison, it is given up to thirty days or thirty days, it costs Slovenian taxpayers 2,000 euros. Therefore, it is also possible that even those who are in prison for removal may still propose and allow work to be done for the general benefit, of course the court must then decide. As has already been noted in the debate, there has also been a clear desire and expectation among certain Members that this alternative execution of sentences or work in general will be stimulated as much as possible, and that it is also implemented in practice, since the spatial situation in prisons is being burdened and, on the other hand, Slovenian taxpayers are also burdened. As regards the question and competence of the guards or other employees in the performance of their duties. Here, matters are clearly defined both in the legislation and in the law and in the current systematisation, it is clear for individual types of staff that they have the tasks, powers and powers. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u141	Thank you. In view of the fact that the time for discussion has not yet run out, I ask whether anyone else wants to discuss it in accordance with Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate on the proposal for a decision. That the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, 27 March, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. It's the first defense bill on the lawyer's tariff. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Joseph Školč requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Marolt, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The reason for the adoption of the new law on legal tariffs is in particular to establish such a system of awarding legal services, which will encourage lawyers and clients to resolve the dispute as quickly as possible. The current regulation of the legal tariff allows lawyers to charge each service separately, which causes unnecessary, often unnecessary, accumulation of applications and, unfortunately, postponement of the main proceedings and, of course, delaying proceedings. For customers, this method of setting legal tariffs or prizes is more expensive, the procedure is longer and the right to judicial protection is suspended. In order to introduce a system of awarding legal services that will encourage lawyers and parties to resolve the dispute as quickly as possible, the proposal sets out only one award for the procedure, one award for the claim and a special award for the agreement. The proposal for a law is based on the example of the German law on the 2004 awards of lawyers and lawyers, which can be said to be one of the most modern laws in the European Union in the field of lawyering and also follows modern guidelines in the field of lawyers' awards, followed by other Member States of the European Union. As one of the most important novelties, the bill introduces the payment of one prize for the execution of a certain set of equivalent services on the same subject and removes the prizes for each individual task. The number of individual writings or applications shall not affect the level of the prize. The same applies to the number of individual orders. The main three awards are the Business Award, the Process Award and the Award for Claim. On the basis of this arrangement, the parties will already know at the beginning of the procedure exactly how much they will have to pay to the lawyer for his services, since the awards will no longer depend on the unforeseeable number of applications, orders, main hearings and other procedural actions. For a successful settlement, the law also provides for a special award for an agreement, the amount of which shall be reduced at the time of the initiation of the proceedings. Such arrangements encourage lawyers to deal with cases outside the court. In the event that the proceedings have already been initiated, and in the event that the proceedings have been concluded as soon as possible. Of course, the law allows the parties and the lawyer to agree on the level of the prizes and thus to exclude the award by law. However, such an arrangement must, of course, meet the specific requirements on the form and not be taken into account in the recovery of the costs of the procedure. A specific part of the law is a tariff which, due to ease of transparency, is made in the form of tables. The tariff shall specify the individual awards which the lawyer may receive for the provision of services in certain cases. In order to adapt to the individual cases and procedures in which they originate, the prizes shall be determined in four different ways: with the coefficient, in the range of two coefficients, in a fixed value and in the range of two unacceptable values. Much more of the prizes than in the current legal tariff are determined according to the value of the legal service, which required a new method of determining this value for individual procedures. The bill also abolishes the setting of prizes with points as set out in the applicable legal tariff and instead provides for prizes in euro. The legal awards themselves are 66% of such awards in Germany on average. In fact, the bill allows a lawyer to make more than what is currently in force with a successful settlement. The lawyer shall be encouraged to seek to close the proceedings as soon as possible by an out-of-court or judicial settlement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u143	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Moge will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u144	Mr President, the distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, a very nice greeting! At the outset, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy, I would like to say that we are disappointed that, at the time we are chairing the European Union, Parliament has been abandoned by laws that are not necessary and necessary for the functioning of this country, which the Prime Minister promised before we came to this situation. And secondly, I would like to say that there are also laws that will still burden the work of the newly elected coalition during the term of office, because it seems irresponsible to do so. Otherwise, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we would like to highlight two problems. The first problem is the process of adopting the law on legal tariffs. The current law on legal representation provides in Article 19 that the legal rate is to be adopted by the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia, in its entirety [[No National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia]] , in agreement with the Minister responsible for Justice. However, in the transitional and final decisions of the draft law which we are considering, there is no indication that this article is no longer in force, but this law states that the National Assembly is doing so, as stated in Article 19 of the Law on Lawyerry. I would also like to point out that the current Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides, in Article 137, that a lawyer as part of the judiciary is an independent and independent service governed by the law. The Minister of Justice drew up a proposal for a law without the participation of a lawyer's chamber, which he explicitly warned that the Ministry's accession was not legally sustainable. The next issue is the content of the bill we are considering today. A fee at the rate annexed to the bill does not allow a lawyer to have a business life. Consequently, lawyers will necessarily account for their work under a specific agreement with the party in accordance with the option offered by the proposed law in Article 4. The amount of payment under a specific arrangement between a lawyer and a party under the proposed law is not limited, which limits the current tariff. Since the courts will recognise in disputes the costs of a lawyer under the prescribed tariff of the bill, which will be less than actually accounted for under the agreement between a lawyer and a client, the successful party in the proceedings will necessarily be deprived of the bulk of its costs of the procedure. This will deprive it of its right, and it will also be addressed in the constitutional principle that the Republic of Slovenia is a legal and social state. This may prevent a greater number of individuals from seeking the protection of rights with the assistance of a lawyer, which is guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. As a result, it will be extended to the right of individuals to judicial protection, as they themselves will not be able to effectively protect their interests in court proceedings due to professional incapacity. Ignorance will cause court proceedings to become mass entanglement in this case at the outset. Surely there will also be a significant number of those who will not seek the protection of their rights to the courts after which it will necessarily bring them material loss. For those of them who do not make such a decision for the protection of rights, it will be possible to claim that they have lost confidence in the law, thus undermining one of the most important foundations of the Slovenian state. However, those who do not abandon the protection of their rights and try to achieve them in ways that our legislation does not allow will only circle the situation of a country that has lost its right to an unknown place. Who else will be able to hire expensive and high-quality lawyers is the second question. Legal protection will thus become the privilege of rich, respected ladies and gentlemen. In particular, the open level of the lawyer's service, in agreement with the party provided by the proposal for a law, may be significantly influenced by legal services. This openness will almost certainly cause disputes between the parties and lawyers to be resolved in judicial proceedings. In view of the apparent non-fulfilment of the objectives that the Ministry of Justice is supposed to pursue with the proposal of the law, you have them in the explanation of the law at the outset. First time. Principle of ensuring the right to a trial within a reasonable time. We know that the court is in charge, not the lawyers. Another time. Principles of effectiveness and acceleration of the procedure. Once again, the court and not the lawyers are in charge. Third time. Principle of concentration of the proceedings. The court is running the proceedings, not the lawyers. The principles of award-setting, which encourages lawyers to resolve the case as quickly as possible, will not be taken into account by lawyers, Article 4. The principle of determining one award for all applications and one award for all contracts is a principle which interferes with some of the constitutional rights of lawyers. The principle of establishing specific awards for an out-of-court settlement of the dispute. The solution offered is significantly less encouraging than it is now established under the legal tariff. The principle of the awarding of the value of the legal service subject. Fixed awards are an exception. This is not a principle because none of the lawyers will account for their work at the rate laid down in the law. We know why not. The principle of promoting alternative dispute resolution is lost in the proposal for a law, since it is significantly less encouraging than it is now established under the legal tariff. For this reason, the purpose of the proposed law must be elucidated. This law represents, ladies and gentlemen, the last act of the Government in the incredible violation of the procedural rights of individuals in judicial and related proceedings, and this is increasingly due only to the public praise of the Minister and the Government for the reduction of judicial backlogs. However, this decrease in contradictory procedures is due solely to the distortion of procedural rights available to individuals prior to this government's mandate. To date, if I mention them, for example: The Law on Offences, the Law on the Constitutional Court and so forth, proposed by this government and adopted by the majority of this assembly, have led to the immediate protection of the constitutional rights of individuals, and the proposal for a law has also led many people down to this protection. Taking into account the clear response of the Chamber of Lawyers, the adoption of the law offered provides a strong focus between the State and the lawyers, in which the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who will not be provided with professional assistance in protecting their rights in all open court proceedings, and those who, in order to protect the rights of individuals, have to open up. The reference to the German arrangement for the awarding of a lawyer is completely inappropriate in our space. The position of lawyer in Slovenia is constitutionally different from that of Germany. It also has a completely different history, as far as independence and independence are concerned. The projection of the effects of the German model in us is not made, which is clear, which is not done for Germany, where there is no indication of the general effects of this law. Normising legal work with the law is a rare thing in Europe, rather than a rule. The Minister was a very successful constitutional judge, so in the Liberal Democracy at the end, because he is not here, and he will probably read a magnetogram or at least his services, we are giving him the next thought. As with the other proposals of this Minister, a reason can be found for this proposal. Whoever doesn't know this legal term, let me make it clear that this is a justification for the reasons, in parallel to the argument, which is in the logic of true law to the unikam. For example, if an absolute authority made the following statement: "The treatment of person A is permissible only because the decision was made by the person B to which the decision relates, the decision-making effect after person B would be considered to be "conditiio sine qua non" for the permissible conduct of person A. That's perfectly logical. Well, in the case of our minister, who does not represent absolute authority with regard to this statement, I think he does not represent what someone has already said, 'I'et c'est moi', but the reason is this: 'The treatment of person A is permissible because absolute authority has made the following statement: The treatment of person A is permissible only because the decision has formed with the person B to which the decision relates. Where the issue of admissibility is irrelevant," and this is now important, "if person B has co-formed a decision relating to it." This is an example of this bill that we are considering today. The whole proposal also adopts all the principles that the new law is intended to achieve. However, more is achieved by reference to the case-law of the European Court of Justice, which in fact states that a State may prescribe the value of a part if it is necessary for the functioning of the State, but only in the case of those in whose constitutional rights it is to do so. Slovenian lawyers, however, believe that any government or any parliament will independently determine the value of their work, after extremely sharp reactions, they did not agree. In the Liberal Democracy, we would be extremely disappointed if a successful constitutional judge's law, which he submitted to the National Assembly, fell at the Constitutional Court at the end of his career. Therefore, we call on Minister Sturm to consider whether it makes sense for us to adopt such a law in the National Assembly or not. Dear colleagues, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Members and Members of Parliament and representatives of the Government! Many of us in this room have ever needed a lawyer’s service, whether it be a simple legal matter or a demanding justice. Despite the fixed tariff set by the Bar, it was very difficult to predict in advance how much we would end up costing the entire business. At the outset, an insignificant dispute could be very complicated due to unforeseen circumstances, and the final sum that had to be settled by the party had grown accordingly. Some law firms are also known to accept each case and promise a solution, even though the case is doomed to failure at first. Procedural applications and complaints affect the length of proceedings before the court, while this also means an accumulation of costs for the client. The charging of each service individually with the desire to make as much profits as possible results in unnecessary accumulation of applications and the transfer of principal treatments. In the end, the client loses twice. The case remains unresolved and the debt to the lawyer can also be so high that the client has to take the loan in the end. Ethics and such lawyers must not be the place to discuss today. With the new law on legal tariffs, we would like to avoid exactly such situations. A predetermined tariff, uniform for the whole process, will certainly reduce the delay in procedures and contribute to a more rational planning of procedural actions. Due to more stable market conditions, the tariff is set at an absolute amount. The law, however, particularly encourages parties to conclude out-of-court settlements. This is a matter which we think is most important to Members and Members of New Slovenia. A lawyer will be able to receive a special award for a successful settlement. The law introduces the payment of the award for the execution of a particular decision of services, the arrangements of a particular case and abolishes the award for the production of each individual writing or work. The number of individual writings or applications shall not affect the level of the prize. The same applies to the number of individual complaints, except in criminal proceedings and in criminal proceedings. The main three awards are the award for the procedure, the award for the business and the award for the claim. In spite of the fixed tariff, the lawyer and the party may agree autonomously on the award. The amount of the agreed prize shall not, however, be taken into account in the reimbursement of the costs of the proceedings by the counterparty, but shall be accepted at a legal level. The difference in this case will have to be borne by the party itself. The problem can arise in those conflicts where the only one that has led to the need to complain against any decision. In these disputes, both parties are usually very squabbled and emotionally involved, making it difficult for both lawyers and courts to work. In such cases, the lawyers of the two parties involved will undoubtedly be in a very difficult position to explain to the parties that the justification across all borders is not a reasonable decision and that lawyers for all acts will not be paid at all. In the New Slovenia Group of Members, we believe that the proposed law does not seek to subordinate the legal profession, as is evident in the media. The law is primarily intended to shorten procedures and encourage parties to resolve disputes in agreement. We are also convinced that the proposal for a law allows a successful lawyer to earn more when, after the current regulation, he deserves more. The lawyer is encouraged to take a number of cases at the same time, with a quick out-of-court solution, as if these cases had been resolved in the courts. This can also be said on the basis of positive experiences in other countries. In New Slovenia, we are confident that courts will also be burdened by this law, and lawyers will also be properly rewarded for their efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u148	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the draft law at this stage in the hope that it will help to resolve disputes more quickly and effectively. In changing, however, we must be careful that, in finding a more effective solution, we also maintain accessibility to the legal assistance of our citizens and, above all, shorten procedures. Unfortunately, we still face great judicial backlogs, and we hope that this law can also help to resolve disputes more quickly. Since a number of recipes to resolve judicial backlogs and to resolve disputes more or less have proved unsuccessful in us, it is right to compare and use the experiences of others, comparable to those of European countries. In addition, it is necessary and necessary, by appropriate provisions, to provide a lawyer with sufficient interest not to delay matters needlessly and to encourage them to initiate judicial proceedings more rationally. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the aim of the proposed law to modernise the determination of legal awards in a manner comparable to other arrangements in EU Member States. We agree that it is necessary to take into account both the interests of the parties, which in particular need to ensure effective legal certainty and the interests of lawyers. It is understandable, of course, that it is most convenient for each party to settle a dispute with reasonable costs as quickly as possible. Shorter procedures, in our view, are also for the benefit of lawyers, so they can take on more cases. As we know, in Germany, for example, more than 70% of all cases have been resolved out of court. We therefore support the provisions of the law which set out specific awards for the agreement and the provisions on one award for the procedure and one prize for the treatment, irrespective of the number of applications and hearings. The drafter intends to provide such a system of awards that would provide lawyers with a higher award for an out-of-court settlement of the dispute than for a judicial solution, which could reduce the caseload of new cases before a court. In doing so, it is necessary to ensure that stimulation is directed so that lawyers are encouraged to resolve the dispute successfully, not only to any or any solution, but only to be quick. We also consider it appropriate to agree between a lawyer and a client on the level of the legal award, irrespective of the minimum tariffs set by the proposed law. This will increase the attorney’s responsibility for their work so that they can work harder to help their clients. We will support the draft law in the first reading in the parliamentary group. Of course, it will depend on the fate of the amendment to the Law on Lawyers to decide how we will proceed in further proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u150	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! What, my fellow Members and colleagues, can we say about the proposal for a law that we believe in the parliamentary group should not be placed on the agenda at all, since the law on legal representation, which is supposed to lay the groundwork for state-level setting of legal fees, is not at all at public level. The least we could expect is that this law will be dealt with in parallel with the law on legal representation in the National Assembly. If this law is adopted, but the solutions in the law on lawyers may be different, we will find ourselves or they will find themselves in a legally irregular situation and, of course, the National Assembly, if I may say so, will be in great shame. A fundamental novelty in the proposed law is that legal tariffs are laid down by the National Assembly, not more by the Bar in agreement with the Minister of Justice. In the Parliamentary Group, we really believe that the proposal for a law that we are considering today is irrelevant even in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, since it does not allow for economic legality to enter into that legal activity that is being carried out on the free market. However, in a work where the so-called legal monopoly applies, it does not allow the participation of a professional association in the design of the price of a legal service, as is the case today. Since the Minister and the Government are very much involved in this law, let's say, populistally, who among us does not want to say lower prices of any services, not just lawyers, let's say that the public interest in so-called monopolistic legal services has already been protected by allowing consent to such tariffs to be given by the competent minister for justice. And as is often the case with these laws, it may be quite the opposite of what has been pointed out or already said, as an unwelcome consequence, in the open discussion, we may be faced with the fact that the tariffs will be even higher than they are today. So this goal will not be realized either. All those who are today and will support this law today ask and ask why we do not support the law that would give us the authority to set the prices of bread or any other good, more or less important and necessary for our daily lives. By such a law, honourable fellow Members and Members, in my opinion and in the opinion of our Group of Members, we degrade our legislative function to the level of petty meddling, today with lawyers, secondly with whom else, and banalise the role of Parliament in society and the country. It should be pointed out that they do not in any way hold the statement that a new approach to legal tariffs will mean a reduction in judicial arrears. It has been convincing that lawyers can only make a small contribution to the speed of judicial proceedings, that the majority of cases are within the jurisdiction of the courts themselves, and thus the lawyers can only make a small contribution. At the same time, there are some principles in the formulation of tariffs, which the Minister boasts that they are being introduced by this bill, already in the current way of pricing. Most of these are in here, except, of course, those who directly oppose certain or legal solutions or even common sense. Like, for example, the already mentioned principle of one award for all applications and one award for all applications, which clearly contradicts common sense and the principle of payment after work, as discussed in section 2 of the Law on Lawyerry. In our view, the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. More than that, by considering such a law, we abolish the role and position of Parliament in our society and political order. I'm sure we won't support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u152	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! Recently, the area of notariat has been subject to changes, and we now have the proposed changes to our legal profession. An amendment to the Law on Lawyers is being prepared, which provides that the legal rate is to be fixed by law. Thus, we now have before us a proposal for a new law on the legal tariff, which, according to lawyers in particular, has a drastic effect on the charging of legal services. The current legislation provides for the tariff to be fixed by the Bar in agreement with the Ministry of Justice. The proposed novelty is the transfer of powers from the Bar to the National Assembly and thus the determination of payment for legal services by law. Some consider such a change to be an attempt to withdraw independence from the Bar itself, as well as from lawyers themselves in the area of financial independence and as a means of punishing them. In fact, they feel that the executive branch is trying to subdue legal representation as an independent and independent service. The latter must be understood in an organisational manner, i.e. self-determination of labour and business rules, financial autonomy, self-financing as well as functional autonomy and independence, protection from interference with legal work and protection against dependence on instructions from anyone. On the contrary, the bill's proponents consider that the charging of each legal service specifically entails unnecessary accumulation of applications and the postponement of the main hearings in court, leading to the delay of judicial proceedings and thus the increase in judicial backlogs. They believe that the adoption of the proposed solutions will allow for a faster resolution of disputes, a more concrete relationship between lawyers and clients and a more transparent tariff system. On the question of whether this bill should be supported, the DeSUS Members decided to give the most time to discuss whether such an intervention could still speak of the actual independence and independence of the lawyer or whether its introduction would constitute such an intervention in the constitutional requirement for the independence and independence of that service, so that they could no longer speak of it. We have come to the conclusion that the proposed law interferes with the independence and independence of the judiciary, but only on financial grounds, but not in the independence and independence of the latter, as a condition for the quality, efficiency and legal professional protection of the rights and interests of legal entities that are parties to judicial and other legal proceedings. We believe that the proposed regime of the tariff system will make a significant contribution to the reduction of judicial proceedings, to the conclusion of out-of-court and judicial settlements, to the speedy conclusion of judicial proceedings, which is in the interest of the parties themselves, their lawyers and the state itself. We are convinced that, for example, the proposed determination of one award for the whole process will make a substantial contribution to quicker resolution and, consequently, to the reduction of judicial proceedings. It is true that the proposal prescribes the award of lawyers regulated by the State, but a different agreement between the lawyer and his client will be possible. As we assess the proposal for a law on legal tariff, as suitable for further consideration, we will also support it in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye. In the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, we will support the proposal for a law. We believe that marriage is smart and necessary, because we know that the problems faced by citizens and citizens with lawyers are not so small and so simple. The law regulates the payment of legal services differently than before. The lawyers' awards were now being charged at the points, and each service was being accounted for separately. You came to the lawyer, sat for half an hour, found out if you didn't find out-- 300 points. Then you came in next time for the same thing - 300 points, and you didn't find out yourself, you were three times, four times at his place, and it applied it all together when they transferred the money to 1,500 euros. And what did you get out of it? Nothing. It is clear that it has then been developed among lawyers, not all of them, but among many that things need to be drawn as long as possible and ordered as many times as possible to collect, of course, as much money. I don't think that's fair, and it's right to set one single award for all the roles and one reward for all the subscribers. The fact is, we cannot allow ourselves to be rich and poor in this way. It is true that some lawyers, in particular from legal circles, say that with the half-rate of the prize, economic independence is taken over by lawyers. I don't think lawyers need to worry about economic independence, because usually lawyers aren't among the poorest in the country. And I think that the economic independence of a lawyer will be very happy to see where a lawyer can prove his results in justice. After all, today many lawyers or lawyers do not issue bills. I have a friend who has a lawyer who gets around 700-800 euros every so long and hasn't received a single bill in the last two years. Of course, she doesn't even hope to tell her lawyer to give her the bill. She already knows why. In addition, I know a case where an elderly lady was worth 5,000 euros to a lawyer and did nothing, he didn't give her an account. He even lost justice because of his own negligence, and only then did he return 3,000 euros to the various offices, while he kept 2000 euros for me, and I don't know what costs. So it would make sense if there was also an article here to control these lawyers. How? "Not only do we have tax legislation that we could grab for tax evasion. After all, the bar could do something in this area, as well as with a lawyer who deliberately loses a measure of justice. That's hard to prove, but it's proveable. In Western European law, not Anglo-Saxon law, but in continental law, some such cases have been proved, and those lawyers have lost their license. I don't think we've got this far enough to handle things this way. I am sure and in the Slovenian National Party Group we are confident that these solutions in the bill will also reduce waiting times and everything that is going on in the courts. The fact is, the courts are more closely connected with lawyers than anyone would have thought. In many cases there are even marital ties, such as the wife being a lawyer and the husband being a judge, or rather the other way around, that the husband is a lawyer and that the wife is a judge, for it is an extreme feminization of this judicial profession. There's a lot of stuff like that. Who says they don't make arrangements at home to make more money running into the family cash register? We can't be sure that this isn't happening. However, many rumours and statements by certain parties certainly do. The shortening of procedures will certainly be a means of reducing judicial backlogs. Of course, this proposal for a law on legal tariff should only be the beginning of the regulation of the complete judicial system in the Republic of Slovenia, whose finalisation or conclusion should certainly be the abolition of the permanent term of office of judges and prosecutors. Here's the main sin. It is true, however, that lawyers do not want a permanent term to be abolished, because for the escape routes and the escapees in certain courts - why should we change them, if we already know them and if we already know how to use them? I think it is right that it is also possible to negotiate between lawyers and a client regarding the level of the lawyer's prize. This has already been in use many times today, unfortunately in a way that some lawyers have already demanded a certain amount of money on hand if the client wants to really get the lawyer's attention, and to some extent guarantees the truth obtained. I don't think that's fair. I'm not going to go into the legality of this business, I'm sure it's not, but I don't think it's legal either, but it's facts. Now, if this is allowed by law, it will allow it in a different way and with a different approach. It will also certainly be possible to agree to obtain a financial percentage on the basis of justice. Of course, we're back on the subject, but what if the lawyer loses the truth? Will the client be able to make excuses and say I'm not paying for anything? I think that in some cases it would also be "fair", especially at the time, as I said before, in cases where a lawyer or "slamparium" does not pull the case out or deliberately fail to bring the matter to the benefit of his client. A lot of times there are agreements, I can't say cartel agreements, but arrangements are made by certain law firms to ensure that one party wins. I don't think that's supposed to happen. The bar jumps up to the ceiling and says she's into independence and jurisdiction. I think that, as long as the ex-department bar advocates for all the mistakes made by lawyers, the bar is more of a resistance and, I would say, covering the back for all the irregularities committed by lawyers than to serve the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Once again, we will support the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr Pece will present the position of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u156	Your Honors are here! What is the task of the parliamentary groups? Regardless of the moment we are in, whether it is just before the elections or whether it is at the beginning of the mandate of the individual parliamentary group, it is only right to read the law at least. Today’s performances, which are also broadcast to the public, reflect at least some of the content of the law before the law is praised or before the law is criticized. And it is not right that the position of the sending groups is reflected in what is supposed to happen to someone, because it is something they once heard and what corruption without evidence is taking place in our country. I think that the parliamentary groups, the parties, should show a certain degree of credibility for this speaker as well. Because, in fact, in the event of reflection today and here, there is a clear answer to the question: Why is politics undervalued within our country? Because, unfortunately, the profession of all of us is maligning us in a way that they don't know what they're talking about. But it is only because they like it that they are pursuing their constant policy, which has nothing to do with the proposal or with the legal substance that is currently under consideration. The tariff in connection with the law currently under consideration determines the amount of the amount to be paid or reimbursed by the party who will lose the truth. If we come from this very important sentence, we will come to a second knowledge, as presented by the Minister in the introduction and the second knowledge, as presented to us by the parliamentary groups that make up the Government, in the greater sense of government parties and parliamentary groups that make up the Government, in a broader sense including the national party. So the real effect of this change will be that only those who are material enough will be able to afford expensive representation will be able to initiate judicial proceedings. And this is the second picture of the law that the Ministry is offering today for admission. So, no one can claim that the content of the law is directed to decline. For the tariff system means anything other than what was exposed by the minister before us. When I spoke to both my fellow Members in the context of the Lip Group, we have come to the knowledge that many of you, but not all of us, regrettably, have come to know. In order to adopt the law on legal representation first, only then the law that we are considering now. It's a purely logical sequence. Infringement of this sequence, or overstepping the foundations, ladies and gentlemen, will not lead to the effect which, I think, was misleadingly highlighted by the Minister at the beginning of his presentation. The third fact to be learned in connection with this law, which will occur if the law is adopted, is that the law will reduce the procedural rights of individuals. Thus, the law interferes with the procedural rights of individuals who seek their right within the framework of judicial institutions or courts. Furthermore, I would like to touch on my assessment of the very horrifying fact or on the knowledge that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and some others have highlighted in the context of its debate, namely the transfer of responsibility for the occurrence of judicial backlogs. So I think that for the first time, at such a very declaratory level, it has been clear from the words of the Minister and some other speakers that citizens are to blame for the backlogs in our country and that lawyers are to blame for the backlogs in our country. If we come from this theory and accept, as a fact, the words of the Minister or representative of the Government, then we will never, unfortunately, come to those effects or those measures that would actually deal with the judicial backlog. For our country's judicial backlog, which has been pointed out to us by gentlemen from Europe in the context of the Twinning project, it remains exclusively in the judiciary, in the organisation of the work of the courts, in the way of the trial, and in particular in the effectiveness of the trial. And whoever today, at least according to the opinion of the Lip Group, claims and builds their policy on the issue of justice in our country, assuming that the judicial waiting lines are the fault of citizens, lawyers and other part-time creators, means that they are not prepared to deal with the reality of the danger of judicial backlogs and that he has little fight for judicial backlogs in this country. It's about as if we were talking about car accidents, and the culprit was looking in toy toys because they were in the back seat of the car. Therefore, I find it extremely irresponsible that the Ministry of Justice has been transferring responsibility for the creation of judicial backlogs, which we have witnessed in Slovenia, and I think that in the rapid increase since 1995, it has been to the legal rate, and we do not even have the law on legal representation in the parliamentary procedure, because the government has dragged it into the framework, back and forth of the government procedure. The proposer, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, points out that the law should encourage parties to resolve the dispute as quickly as possible. If we agree to the theory of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then it is best to end the courts and say that people, individuals or economic operators should just talk to each other, that we have nothing to do with this, and that we will have just once in a while the judicial backlog. This is the realization of the theory that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia offers to us in thought and, even a degree higher in reception and that alpha degree, in law. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia claims that lawyers are the ones causing unnecessary accumulation of applications. I ask you kindly, because you probably weren't serious within the Ministry when you wrote such words in the framework of the law. The system of the judiciary, the functioning of the court is one that has been criticized or criticized by all the domestic institutions involved in the analysis and, above all, by the resolution of judicial backlogs and, lastly, by all the twinning projects and all of them, I think it has been, but do not hold me to the floor, because it is a few years ago, 18 measures of twinning measures proposed for a more effective judiciary. None of these measures were so banal that they would solve backlogs through the operation of lawyers. All the measures have touched the organisation and work of the judges and the courts. Therefore, once again, I do not understand how someone can be so irresponsible and difficult or fundamental, building his policy on such a mistaken assumption. The wrong assumption is not only dangerous because someone wants to produce the enforcement of this law, but mainly because it is a blurring of the true facts. And if there is a danger, then there is a danger here because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has led us to very thin ice in the framework of the judicial backlog and with the possibility of a solution that will not in any way resolve the number of judicial backlogs in our country. What I said more or less similarly is the analysis of the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana about the main reasons for the duration of criminal proceedings, which has revealed that the conduct of lawyers is not what is supposed to cause judicial backlogs, but that is what I was talking about earlier. Therefore, once again, from this title I sometimes really wish or wish in the context of the Lip Group that there would be no television broadcasts. For if there were no television broadcasts or were closed sessions, then people who knew nothing in this law, but represented it, would not advertise. But the fact is that now it is only for the media that gentlemen and ladies are talking about, that they are giving false information, that citizens and citizens are given false hope. And if anything is worse than a puff, it's a sin, a sin of lying. We will not support the proposed law in the Lip Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr Kovacic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! On the part of some opposition groups, it was said that the proposed law was not suitable for further consideration, which is also a logical consequence of the opposition's previous attitude towards the proposed laws adopted in this House. What law, however, has so far been suitable for these same opposition parties for further discussion in this mandate? I don't remember him, I don't think anyone has. But if there's an exception to the fact that it was explicit, explicitly stated behind this counter, please tell me. The legal activity is not any activity that is subject to the free market and subject to full free supply and demand, but is such an activity that must be regulated in a way that is carried out in the public interest. It is therefore appropriate that the State regulates and regulates the price of legal services and that this price is not left to the operators themselves, that is to the lawyers. And when a presentation of one of the groups of Members was made today and some cases were mentioned when there were abuses by the lawyers, which certainly is happening and cannot be denied, it is certainly not in favour and honour of the lawyer as such. I'm sure we can't generalize such cases to all the lawyers. And just because it doesn't happen, because today a lot of these bad cases are generalized on all lawyers, that's why a change of law is needed. Looking for culprits for backlogs in lawyers, probably out of line. It is certainly the main culprit within the judiciary, but of course it is the legislation that dictates the conduct of both judges and other participants in judicial proceedings. And this legislation also requires the conduct of lawyers. And lawyers, within the framework of the powers they have under legislation where they have a relatively large margin of manoeuvre, can also delay these procedures. Thus, part of the judicial backlog is certainly linked to this activity of lawyers, although we cannot bring lawyers to do so because they are implementing the law as it is. Of course, it is legislation that we also need to make changes in order to reach out to the area of judicial backlogs and try to reduce them through legislation. And quite a few laws with this aim have already been addressed in the National Assembly, and I think they have helped to reduce judicial backlogs. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we therefore agree with the Government's intention to change the concept of evaluation of legal services so far. We note that the concept so far is not in many ways oriented to be primarily in the interests of users of legal services, but rather to pursue the interests of lawyers. As the intention of each law must be public interest, the area of legal representation must also be regulated in the public interest. The new proposed law certainly pursues this objective, while this could not be argued for the regulation so far. However, the provision of public interest or the interest of users of legal services does not yet mean that the law in question is directed against legal interests, despite the fact that the Bar Association opposes the concept of the law in question. On the other hand, this does not mean that all lawyers proposed new solutions are opposed. Even the contrary, as some lawyers have also publicly supported the proposed solutions to the new law, which, of course, makes it possible to think. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party agree with our view on the key purpose of this law, which is to achieve a more economical process wherever lawyers perform their services. Contrary to current regulation, it is a major step forward that the costs of legal services will be known in advance, no matter how many applications the lawyer prepares and how many hearings will be signed or how long the process will take. In this way, all parties to the proceedings, including a lawyer, will be more interested and financially motivated to make the procedures as short as possible or to avoid proceedings, but the parties will be able to reach a settlement before the initiation of the procedure. In this way, this law will also contribute to shorter procedures. The courts and other bodies will be more effective and a significant step will be taken to reduce and remedy the judicial backlogs that we know represent a very serious problem in Slovenia. The interests of lawyers will not be to write as many applications as possible and to delay proceedings, so that as many cases as possible, where cases are not closed, but on the contrary, that the party represented by the lawyer completes his or her case as soon as possible, either by concluding a case, outside the court or any other settlement, either with the swift completion of a judicial or other proceeding. This will lead to an equalization of interests, both on the party's side and on the lawyer's side, which is that the procedure or disputed relationship will be successfully concluded as soon as possible. I'm stressing it's a success. This will also make it easier and more successful for lawyers to represent more parties than ever before, which is also an important objective of the proposed law. In order not to be mistaken, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group we do not think that so far it has been the intention of lawyers in general to delay proceedings, to write into court indefinitely and to attend as many proceedings as possible. While it must be said at the same time that some lawyers have used precisely such procedural frauds in order to increase customer earnings, although the process could be reduced with the same or better effect. However, as we say, we must not speed up these cases to the entire legal profession. The new regulation of the proposed law will now motivate and stimulate lawyers to represent their parties as successfully as possible in the interests of the party and in their interest, while at the same time ensuring that the representation is completed as soon as possible. It also seems important to us that the law encourages lawyers and parties to alternative dispute resolution, in particular through mediation, thereby reducing the caseload of new cases before the courts. In view of the fact that the law only provides for a minimum legal rate and therefore an individual agreement between a lawyer and a client with regard to the lawyer's prize is possible, in such a case, the lawyer will be further encouraged to represent his client more effectively and his responsibility for successful representation will be increased. All this is the reason why the law needs to be adopted as soon as possible, since it will primarily improve the position of users of legal services, who will end trials or other proceedings more quickly and cheaper. However, we can rightly expect them to be represented, at least on average, more committed and responsible than ever before. Therefore, the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed law, because we believe it is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u159	Thank you. Ms Lavtijar Bebler will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u160	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. A respected choir! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will not support the proposal for a law on legal tariff for principle reasons. We are convinced that there are no legitimate and valid reasons for introducing a system to determine the legal rate as a legislator with a specific law. The Constitution is very specific when it defines lawyers, so as part of the judiciary, it is an independent and independent service. The fact is that lawyers are increasingly expanding their scope of action also in areas beyond the representation of the judiciary and other bodies, and in this part is largely left to market rules. It is absurd that, more than a hundred years ago, a lawyer could set a legal tariff on his own, of course, with the proper consent of the executive authority, which established public interest, today, in a democratic state, and with such a constitutional position of defence, this would suddenly be controversial. We are also witnessing a procedure that, unlike other democratic countries referred to by the Ministry of Justice, has not been invited by the Bar Association to draft the bill. Only without compliance with the Chamber of Counsel has it been unacceptable to intervene in the constitutional independence and independence of the lawyer. Much of what the Ministry wants to introduce into the law on legal tariffs under consideration could, in agreement with the Bar Chamber, be adopted within the framework of a legal tariff adopted by the Bar, but in agreement with the Minister of Justice, of course. In one of the works of the Bar, it was noted that, due to the proposed imprudent tariff proposal, there could be additional burden on the courts, due to the time needed to calculate the costs, against these decisions on costs and the possible increase of disputes between lawyers and clients in the payment of legal services. In particular, we would like to point out that the comparison of our regulation of the legal tariff with the regulation in Germany is not acceptable, since in Germany the representation of the parties before the judicial authorities is mandatory, and not as with us when such representation is mandatory in the audit and when a lawyer is appointed under official duty, but this is another problem. There are traps in the proposed solutions, as the lawyer may not propose the use of new and all possible remedies, because it will not be financially motivated and will therefore receive poorer quality legal services. Or even be deprived of the protection of her rights. Why would a lawyer take a case that he knew from the very beginning was very complicated and would require a lot of his hard work. Also, the argument that the lawyer and the client will always be able to agree on a higher tariff, hiding large traps. Only rare wealthy parties will be able to afford a valuable and good lawyer, or it is precisely this actual motive and purpose of the applicant. I hope not. As I said at the outset, this law for the Group of Social Democrats is not acceptable for principle reasons, but also because of the inadequate procedure that has already been discussed here today and we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u161	Thank you. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Bajc has the floor. Can I help you? [[No, no, ……]] He's quitting. Mr. Loveshek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Initially, I am not an expert in regulating this tariff area of lawyers, nor have I ever benefited from any legal services. But somehow I only know the lawyer's work and their accounting for the services, because I've been a jury judge for quite a few terms. When I determine whether to support the proposed law, I have before me, on one hand, the proposed material with a clear explanation by the Government, in order to determine only one award for the complaint procedure and the agreement. So one award for the execution of a certain set of uniform services in the same case. On the other hand, opposition to the Bar and, as I see today, the opposition defending the current regime which allows lawyers to charge each service separately, which causes the explanation of the law to be visible, unnecessary accumulation of applications, postponement of the main treatment and thus delaying proceedings, and for the parties more expensive legal services. The bar says: "The proposal for a legal tariff interferes with the financial independence of lawyers." I do not agree with this claim alone. Why not? Since there is no competition on the market for legal services now, the price is determined by a cartel monopoly organised through the Bar Association. Therefore, the price that best suits this cartel is determined and is not aligned with any supply and demand on the market for these services. Therefore, the law, in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or of the parties who need these business services, must lay down the legal rate, without prejudice to the content of the legal work itself. Another time. I also disagree with the second statement of the Bar that the bill is subordinated to the State interest. I wonder, what interests? Actually, I'd like to hear that. The President of the Bar says: "The defence is independent and independent under the Constitution. It must also be independent from a financial point of view." I agree with the first part, of course. Where, however, it says, "it must also be from a financial point of view." Is that written down? In my view, it is independent and independent in the performance of its professional function and the price of these services sets out monopolistically to the detriment of the users of these services. Therefore, it is the interest of the State or citizens to reduce and accelerate judicial proceedings. This is also followed by some lawyers who say that legal proceedings are delayed because they are paid for every act. If this is limited by the way envisaged, as envisaged in the proposal for a law, lawyers will be interested in resolving the matter quickly. This was recorded in the media. And second. "Because...", he continues to say, "...she stresses that the lower tariff will mostly not reduce payments, the lawyer may refuse to take over the case irrespective of the rate. The tariff shall be taken into account for the calculation of the amount of the reimbursements to be made to the party which won the dispute. But what a client actually pays his lawyer is most often a matter of agreement." This was written down and we could have read it. I would like to mention the specific prices that I have also read, but I cannot find them right now, where it is written, what legal services are and what they are calculated under this bill. And we can see that they're practically halved. It's been cut in half. And on the basis of all that is argued, which is also calculated, it is not a difficult decision for me to support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! My contribution will be brief. Personally, I think that the law establishes a minimum payment for legal services, while the amount of payment of the service upstream is no longer limited, but this is left to the agreement between the lawyer and the parties, which has not been made so far, it is necessary to say this, at least not in such a clear form. I believe that this allows for a free economic initiative, as lawyers will also be left to the market and will have to obtain customers by their own quality work and be paid correctly for their successful work. The law must also not overlook greater freedom in relation to the legal organisational form by which lawyers can operate, since the law provides for the possibility of setting up companies with limited liability. The provision that a law firm can have branches is positive and compares us with foreign companies that can, under certain conditions, exercise legal practice in our country, meaning that branches may have a special meaning. It is expected that this marriage solution will be opposed due to the fear that large legal societies will have much control over the Slovenian space. Undoubtedly, in my opinion, at least through tariff, legal services will be valued, which is not essential, it is not essential. It is important that a lawyer be paid from now on for a specific matter with a certain amount, and not more for, as we used to say, and we like to say, for every step, literally for every step and literally for every phone call he makes for a client in the framework of an authorised relationship. In Novi Slovenija we estimate that the proposal for a law on legal tariff is a good basis for further parliamentary procedure and we will also support it as such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I won't support the bill. And if I were to give the shortest justification, I would say that it is not possible to make a procedural decision, but it is not possible to decide on matters that are expressly different in the second law and should go in a different order, irrespective of the fact that this law is proposed on a regular basis. Secondly, I am not sure that the Government, that the Ministry of Justice, in spite of some good intentions to help speed up the process, has taken advantage of every opportunity to keep certain tariffs, legal tariffs, within the framework and within the limits of the law. I just don't believe it. They picked a shortcut that's easier. We have a majority in the National Assembly, this majority is obedient, votes always as we expect and demand, tells more general truths, is rude to anyone who thinks otherwise and why we should talk to lawyers, but if this is a painful business that produces worse success. The third point I would like to stress is that I am not looking at the content of the law alone, and not primarily at the position of lawyers, but at the position of the party. And I personally fear that the Government has not given this much thought and that, from the point of view and position of the party, it can be prepared and adopted a law for the party worse. Indeed, you say that competition between lawyers can be increased, but this competition between lawyers is greater in such a way that everyone will try, in addition to the tariff laid down in the law and consider it to be the lowest tariff, to agree on a higher reward for doing business. Those who fail to do so, because they will be heard of, know and so forth how well they will provide their services, will be able to pay an even higher amount for those who will not be prepared, especially those who will not be able to pay in addition to the minimum legal rate. There will be, dear ladies of the government, this is your policy to differentiate the parties on this basis. Whoever's rich has good services, who's poor won't be able to go to court any more soon, let alone get a lawyer. You will say no harm, for being poor is his own fault, forgetting that the country and the system are helping him to deal with his situation to a large extent. And the last. The proposal to try to speed up the procedure through the setting of legal tariffs is useful. I understand that some units of procedure are indicated that certain units which are not the same procedure are listed and that this cannot be anticipated in advance, and that some will also be determined by case law in the event of different views or disputes, if any. I'm asking you."Have you considered enough if uniform procedures always provide sufficient quality services?" Or, "When, precisely because of the desire to ensure uniformity of the procedure, does the process come to an end, perhaps even earlier, but the quality of the services is lower, because everyone is thinking, above all, that they will do as little as possible in the single procedure, because they will be paid no matter how many acts, in fact, not those that we have foreseen and envisioned in the law will actually be carried out?" I am afraid that these issues have not been addressed, that they are not imagined, and that they will not only have the effects that you submit and paint as ideal. If I am wrong, I will be grateful when Mr Minister tells me how they imagined everything perfectly and that my fears and concerns are not justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch. Or if you'll excuse me. Mr. Petan. Excuse me, Mr. Mikolitch, Mr. Petan is earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I'm going to try to talk less about the law and less about the minister, who's been told a lot about today. Perhaps only, the title of the tariff law is not the happiest and well-being, and there is no point in losing words about it, because there is a lot of talk about tariffs and I have only recently heard about the quality of services. I think it's more important than the same tariff, depending on which angle you're looking at. I think it is right that we discuss this too, that we have this law before us, and I am sure that we will normally go through this process and see no need for anyone to be rude to anyone. I see a perfectly normal debate, even at first reading, at the request of the opposition. So there will be plenty of time to drink the contents. But it is a fact that I am also looking at this law from a slightly different angle, not just from the perspective of the tariff. Because I think that if I look at it from the perspective of the tariff, there will probably be some side effects of this law. And that's what's been said a lot about today. This is a court of law behind us. Slovenia is known for its judicial backlog and it is right to look for examples in those countries where judicial backlogs are smaller. In our Western neighbors, it is probably not good to look for examples because there are about as many judicial backlogs as we have. That's what you're saying. We have to go where the backlogs are smaller. And I think it's probably the Austrian, German system that is so that we can follow it, without being able, that it makes sense to imitate ourselves, because by those who are worse than us, it doesn't make sense to have them as an example and to look for solutions to them, but if they're not successful. With regard to backlogs, there were many attempts, many doubts at the time, and probably few who were confident that only one attempt would resolve matters. So simple is it likely that this substance of backlogs is not enough to solve the entire problem that has probably been arising for years with just one attempt. It is also likely that this law today, one of these attempts to do something in the field of judicial backlogs. I'm joining those who say it's not right to talk about lawyers being guilty of a backlog. That probably wasn't even the point. But it is true that the system is so natural that it is possible to influence. And, if there is a possible impact, then legislation must be so misled that this possible impact is also reversed, nullified or eliminated. However, I am convinced that the backlogs are still burdening the country, because we have heard earlier that it is not such a matter as to burden the country. That's not true. The backlogs still burden the country, the functioning of the country and the problems citizens have here are very large. And if there is the slightest possibility that the impact on any backlogs will be eliminated, it is necessary to do so. And I think there is a possibility in this content as well, and therefore this law needs to be taken seriously and the content can be upgraded. In view of the content that tariffs will be independent of the number, tasks other than those basic ones which are prescribed seem perfectly normal and positive to me, since this is likely to exclude some long-term procedures and repetition of procedures or tasks, the activities of someone who is in this trial. And that's why I think this approach is normal and logical. I also think it is appropriate because, at the outset, the costs that will be incurred by the parties can be estimated approximately, more than now. More importantly, as this will be some way of saying, perhaps the right term has forced lawyers to be interested in closing the proceedings as soon as possible, or perhaps sooner, in a settlement, court or extrajudicial, somehow end this procedure, so that it does not reach the court at all and that the case does not increase in a court of law. So far, there's been no stimulation for that. Now I see this stimulation. Now, if it is properly and 100 percent already embedded in this text, I would not be able to say that. Maybe it can be improved, but I'm sure it's going this way, so I think it's worth a shot. I would like to say, however, that there are some threats or disadvantages that are being predicted in the sense that there will be some social differentiation, that everyone will not be able to afford a good lawyer, because they cannot afford one now either. I don't see where anyone has been given the chance to afford the best; of course you can, you just have to pay for it. All he has to do is pay it, so far he never knew what the final costs would be, because they were done, jobs, activities could continue to increase and the process would increase, and so did costs. I can naively see that now less is going to happen, I can look naively, but as is evident from the content, it seems that it will be easier to predict what the final costs will be. But not the way it was before you never knew whether it would take two, three, four, five, ten or, I don't know, years. As costs grow around here, you probably don't have to speak specifically. So that's exactly what social differentiation was now. I certainly don't see social differentiation increasing now. The one who had the money now just got the most expensive lawyer, and now it's probably gonna be the same. And I'm sure if the procedure is faster, it's better for the client than it was before, when you never knew when it would end. I also think it is worth supporting this experiment, which has several directions of action, that this process continues and that we reach a text that will be about the way we want it to be. I will therefore, of course, support the continuation of this procedure, and I will vote in favour that this proposal is a suitable basis for the continuation of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Hello, well-respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I am somewhat surprised at the debate of some who say that there are no legitimate or valid reasons for the adoption of this law. I feel otherwise that this law must be adopted. I support any solution that will encourage lawyers to complete certain cases as soon as possible, either judicial or extrajudicial. In particular, if I put myself in the skin of a client, I would like to say this, that the parties themselves often get into a lot of trouble, a lot of trauma. I must say that as the mayor of one of the local communities, citizens often call me, say how far they have come regarding certain actions. Besides, I'm not very surprised, since we all know that Slovenians like to sue. And how can you comfort this man? I don't have any choice but to tell him why you're suing. I am of the opinion that this law also provides a solution for these people. The solution decided that, on the basis of the so-called awards that belong to lawyers, the lawyer in this respect will only consider that the procedure will be completed as soon as possible. I think that's the main point or the meaning of this law. Because you know, sometimes I wonder, but this is also a practical case that I know that one case has been cancelled 10 times or the claim for treatment has been revoked. Indeed, we cannot say that in any case, when the application was withdrawn, the court was responsible for this or that the court had a cause. I think it's in certain cases, I don't think, because I also know that lawyers have contributed. And I could also list practical examples that some of us are dealing with in practice. And let me stress once again that I support this law. It will probably be necessary, in view of some proposals, which are certainly good, to be added to the second reading, but I think it is a very good basis and will certainly make this law easier for many people. I don't know, we've had today, it's now the fourth law, and it's many times, or mainly the first law, but it's also the opening of a debate on judicial backlogs, or how many individual solutions contribute to making as many judicial backlogs as possible. I'm sure of everything. This has also been demonstrated by practice, including what has already been adopted by the Minister's proposer, Dr Sturm, all the solutions have contributed to this. These are also the results that the Ministry can or has also made publicly available today. Therefore, from this point of view, I support the solution, I support the proposal of the law and I believe it is appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Moge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting to you, Minister Dr. Lovro Sturm with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I would say that I am very disappointed that it is the Ministry of Justice that has put the law into action, in which the issue of the adoption of the law itself is being opened at the outset. If I had before me a Member with a long-term experience in law, for example, where the law would say - the legal rate is adopted by the National Assembly of Slovenia by law, the peaceful soul could join in adopting the law or proposal of the law that is currently under consideration. As long as I know now that there is no other law than the applicable law on lawyering, which states that the legal rate is adopted by the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia in agreement with the Minister responsible for justice, this is a legal norm, without the fact that in the transitional and final provisions of this law, if we had adopted it, we would have also written that this article of the present law, as of the date of entry into force of this law, would have been annulled. As I think we are living in the legal space, for the first time, as far as the law on lawyering is concerned, when we adopt this law on tariff, and for the second time, it seems to me that the Constitution also makes it clear and clear that the judiciary as part of the judiciary is a self-sustaining and independent service governed by the law. Big commitment, big commitment. And the law that governs is the law on lawyering, but in Article 19 the tariff is completely different. I would say that it is very significant for this government not to take public opinion into account, that it is not able to negotiate with interested people. As an example, if I mention, the National Programme of Higher Education, and in it, how it was accepted that all universities were against the fact that all the students were against the union going against that the opposition was against the adoption of the national programme even until the obstructions of the entire opposition, respected colleagues and colleagues, this suggests something such that the government does not have an agreement with the partners, but what it says: "If you do not listen to me, I will reach you with the long arm of the voting machine. The fact that the law has not been regulated in science in such a way that members, three-partitely constituted, are delegated to the Governing Boards, but that the State has, with its long arm, delegated its members more than half of its members to control, can see where the policy goes, and can be seen where this authority, by delegating the people who have been, has intervened in the field of science. Now I think it's also completely wrong to start a war with lawyers. If I were a lawyer, I would welcome this law, because on the open market and on the market with unlimited resources, if I were as good as I was, I would be enormously rich. Thus, unlike what some people are saying here today, this law brings exactly another. This law brings blessings to lawyers and brings woe to the poor. Look at you, your respectable colleagues, someone who doesn't have the money, and in criminal proceedings, "ex offo" the state ordered him to defend himself. How will this advocate, this lawyer, be paid now, if the case is taken over at all and he will not excuse himself for not being able to do so and take over. They'll take over those lawyers who, by their way, will be at the minimum of survival, and they'll find that money in their best interest. True lawyers, however, will live as kings in Bethany under Article 4 of the Law. I'd like to say one more thing. Certainly, Mr Minister, it is true that if, in the proceedings of the two parties, it is now considered that the party will be reimbursed even if it has received the truth, only at the level set by this legal rate, but will by no means receive the reimbursement of those costs provided for in Article 4, it means that it is almost not worth going to justice if I want in my justice and for my rights to receive a truly high-quality advocate. Then people like that will change their minds, and then they won't fix these things. It seems to me that before this height was limited, this thing is more fair than this thing that we now have here, where we will now, through this tariff, also with the long political hand of the ministry and we will reach into this justice system. I think that because the costs set out in Article 4 will be able to increase across borders, fewer and fewer people will be able to decide on legal disputes, and therefore these people will also contribute to fewer of these matters in the courts, on the one hand. On the other hand, in the most complicated cases that are long-standing, the wealthy citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to hire the best lawyers with unlimited sums. And I'm sure they won't be running procedures in this direction so they can finish in the night. So legal certainty is swayed in a certain way if we accept it. And third thing, to accept, Mr. Minister, this thing with the opposition of the Bar Association, you can do it with your position, you can accept it, you can believe that you are not going to use a word from up there for all the people around you. But I'm telling you, for the quality of life in this country, that's not good. I really don't think it's good. And since you weren't here before, I'd like to repeat this one more time, because it's probably going to be accessible, and your colleagues probably have already notified you. You were a good constitutional judge, we all acknowledge that, excellent, more than excellent. And it would be extremely unpleasant for you, in my opinion, if this law, which we are currently considering and which you are defending, which part of the profession says is unconstitutional, fell in the Constitutional Court. I wouldn't give you that, Mr. Secretary. And I would like to invite you, Mr. Minister, from this town, as much as it is in your intervention, to give first the law on lawyering, to bring this together, to this time keep this law and then to come into procedure with this law or with a slightly corrected law. If I've been a little long, I hope I haven't been insulting, because I'm honestly saying what I've told you here, even though you're smiling at my face, but I don't think this story is going to end well the way you set it up. And it is not good that in laws that have such a contradiction between principles and objectives and between the professional and interested public, we are getting together, Mr Minister, the last three months before the elections. It's not good. Besides, we are chairing the European Union. And I think that using this space for laws like these here, with the connotation that has been used here, it seems to me that these are pre-election bubbles for the good of the people, and fewer acts that would count for the benefit of this country now that we are chairing the European Union. I don't think this thing is gonna work out the way you think it's gonna work. I don't want to threaten here. All that bothers me is that I thought, by committee, that we could deal more with the European Union by working bodies, MEPs and Members, more with the things that are there, and much less with these problems in the last three months before the elections that we have now.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Only a short intervention, which has been necessary since the two debates so far have also heard the claim that the most expensive lawyers are also the best. I have some knowledge of these matters, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. And since they certainly listen to us in public, it is right to say that there is no causal link between the height that you will pay to the lawyer and the quality of his work. The quality of legal services needs to be truly assessed by content. As much as you give for it, do not sit on it because today it has been said that those who fail to achieve the highest tariffs will be deprived of quality legal aid. That's just not true. That was said today. And a second time, and this. Antivirals were also observed. On the one hand, there were claims that the proposed law would make it possible for lawyers to become more profitable and, on the other hand, lawyers would object. These two just don't go together. That's the contradiction. Here you will have to decide which position you will decide in the future, but this position is contradictory. And this is how the law on legal tariff is passed. In general, it is precisely because Members have requested general treatment in this law. If that were not required, the law on legal representation, which was simultaneously incorporated into the procedure and which would be adopted after a reduced procedure, would be before this law. In no case will this law be able to enter into force before the law on legal representation. The Law on Lawyers will be the first to be in the procedure, and it will then be the one to be harmonised by the following laws, specifically the Law on Lawyers' Tariffs. So in this case, there are no problems. And finally this. I'm pretty sure I know a little bit about what's constitutional and what's wrong with the constitution. This law is not inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u176	Two short replicas. Firstly, we are in a market economy, Mr Sturm, and there, whoever is the best, usually has the most expensive prices. But this does not apply on a case-by-case basis, but this is the norm. You're not gonna tell me that the most expensive are the worst, which is absurd. Second thing. You may not believe me either, but it is, I can also tell you who it was, lawyer King Erik said to me personally, "Listen, the lawyers are against it, but as a lawyer, I know I'll do better if you accept this tariff. But if I look at people and my conscience does not allow me to be in favour of such a law being adopted in this way."
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maja Zupan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I think that we can agree that today's system is such that every lawyer service is charged separately, which in practice causes the accumulation of applications and the postponement of hearings, and ultimately leads to too long procedures. The government has been preparing a new bill and a new system to change the relationship in this area. I trust the lawmaker, I trust the Minister with great reputation and great authority, including the mileage, and he knows the situation in this area. If all citizens are given equal opportunities for legal protection and the benefits and interests of the parties are protected and such rewards will be given to lawyers, which will shorten court proceedings and burden the courts, while at the same time rewarding lawyers appropriately, by encouraging the system of lawyers and their clients to complete court proceedings as soon as possible, and the parties will no longer be burdened financially, then such a proposal is worth supporting and I will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u180	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary, his team! Of course, it is commendable, in fact, that your efforts to bring as many laws through before the expiry of your term of office. But as I've already said, it does too much damage, and even if a man's in a hurry, he usually falls for it. I think the proposed changes in the legal service will really inspire. In order for citizens and businesses to, therefore, all those who will benefit from these services will pay more than they have paid so far. And it's not right that you don't actually say that, Mr. Secretary. The restrictions you propose in relation to these tariffs will apply only to the needs of judicial proceedings. This means that the party who enforces its claim and gets the truth will have to pay for the lawyer substantially more because the tariff limits the amount to be recovered by the party who loses the truth. The actual effect will then be completely different from what was intended. Whether judicial proceedings will be reduced by a change in legal tariffs is a big question. I think that in civil proceedings, which are the most important, the main problem is not in the legal tariff, but in the fact that procedural laws do not require clients and lawyers to negotiate before they start justice and that they are looking for alternative solutions to the dispute. On average, the civil procedure will still take place as it is now, at least at two main hearings. These are analyses of the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana. It is also necessary to know that this proposal, as it is designed, does not summarise the German model of the legal tariff, but is in fact the concept of the Kaczynski brothers, it is said, of a Polish case which in the final stage has decomposed the matter in such a way that the Polish Bar Association was abolished. And, of course, we can also experience such international embarrassment that the government will then have to move away from this concept when the European Commission, the Council of Europe, the Council of European Bar Associations and others intervene. Of course, all of this can be learned. I therefore believe that the proposal of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is still that the Ministry of Justice return the proposed legal material to the stage of coordination with all interested, affected actors and thus avoid further disputes. Not making deals with those involved is, in fact, a great deal of carelessness. However, as far as these cutbacks are concerned, we have heard a great deal about this today. And in fact, in every law you make before us, we hear how the law will allow for the reduction of judicial proceedings. That's how I've been worried about anyone getting convicted before they're charged. These procedures will end so quickly, Mr. Secretary. I don't know why this has to be advertised all the time. In fact, I don't know if what you're doing, because you can measure it. In the Liberal Democracy we will not support this way, as I have said today three times in all three proposed laws. And given your remarkable habits and habits, it looks like I'm going to say that again in this term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Drago Koren, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. I wonder if it makes any sense to say a word in this marriage, since we are obviously standing on our own shore. There's a bridge in the middle, but apparently no one wants to step on it. I must say that I am quite surprised at the generalisation and general statements made in this debate, views and arguments. From the fact that they have now found that lawyers are responsible for the backlog and that if we solve this, there will be no more judicial backlogs and so on, and that there will be no longer any need for the courts, because everything will be resolved by out-of-court settlement, so that I do not continue to mention. I don't think such easy talk about these things is appropriate. I personally believe that the Minister actually had a good purpose by this law, that he also contributed one part by lawyers in order to resolve matters faster, to remedy backlogs and to end trials within reasonable time. I also immediately thought of this dilemma, which the minister himself was talking about. To talk today about how we raise the bar tariffs and, on the other hand, to talk immediately about how the law is opposed by the Bar Association, I suppose not because they will be paid as well under this law as some explain. It is true that the application of current legal tariffs did not cause any problems in the public. There wasn't much to talk about. But we are in the sent-out offices, at least I can claim this, that I have met many times alone in the sent-out office with the people who came to me with these judicial proceedings, from how long they've been dragging themselves, to how much they've paid the lawyer for their own trial. And I have to agree with my colleague Martin, who said that we are obviously Slovenians a little bit inclined to want to sue, and that we should take on every plant, even though it is already a little more clear to us that the solution will not be favourable. Therefore, I must say that this clear determination that people will know more about how much one matter will cost them is certainly important to people at the beginning. Most importantly, I must stress this once again, the real law is trying to get both lawyers and parties to reach either an out-of-court settlement or a settlement or to come to a speedy decision of the court and close the case as soon as possible. I think it is very important to stress that he will be a lawyer, I will not say the most paid if he succeeds in the settlement, that he will also be very well paid if he succeeds in bringing at least the settlement, and that he will be a little less paid if the case ends in court. I personally think that's right and that's good. In the end, I just want to say one more thing. In this law, to say that the law is a bubble, a pre-election move, I think you've already thrown that thesis away with your arguments. Certainly this is not a pre-election move, but I am sure that it is a matter for cases to be settled successfully in the Slovenian courts within a reasonable time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Since we've been meeting all day on the subject of justice laws, I'm going to start by saying something more about a joke than I really am. Lately, I've heard more lawyers say, "We've been through Bolshevik times, we've spent lead times, now that we have freedom, but we have problems with power." Now it's much more serious. Mr Justice Minister is so arrogant that it is completely unacceptable. We know how he behaved, let's say, to the judges when it came to the question of their salaries. He's got all his courtship against himself. But no, he kept grinding. Now he's facing a lawyer, and in his arrogance, the Bar Association hasn't even invited him to try to harmonise. He probably didn't ask how an international law association might react. As far as I know, the International Bar Association, also visited Slovenia several times, has always wondered whether the bar is a self-serving and independent service. You know, not just to get the lawyer to write a bill, it's not the most important thing. But do you know why a lawyer has to be independent and independent to just write a lawyer's fee, of course, with the consent of the Minister of Justice? So that he also hopes to be accepted for the defence of those parties who are actually fighting in so-called lost processes to exercise their human rights and fundamental freedoms. This is why it is so important that lawyers are independent and independent. The Minister does not respond at all to the questions whether this is not disputed in terms of constitutionality, because the Constitution speaks of lawyering as part of the judiciary, which is an independent and independent service. He says he already knows it's not in violation of the Constitution. And he said why he didn't think he was in violation of the constitution, did he say anything about it? No, no, no. As far as I know, however, this is precisely why lawyers are so dissatisfied, because in their view, there is a constitutional provision that affects their constitutional position. And there really was a situation now that you, to say the least, poor people couldn't afford an expensive and good lawyer. Nobody talked about it being too disproportionate, but it often happens to be the most expensive. But the problem now is that we will now incorporate what has been happening as a systemic error into the law. And so I ask someone to answer me once again what a lawyer would take on a difficult case if he received the same payment for the unclaimed. Why would a good and expensive lawyer accept a client who can't pay him as much as this lawyer usually asks and expects. Tell me what kind of legal services a financially weak client will be able to afford. Will such a party be deprived of its rights? I'm able to answer that on my own. Yes, incontrovertible. And as we say, we do not accept this law for principled constitutional reasons. The minister knows he's right. He doesn't want to trust us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State Marolt, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Allow me to strongly reject the acknowledgment of the distinguished Ambassador Darje Lovtišar Bebler with the suspected arrogance of some. That's absolutely not true. The fact is that we invited the Bar Association to participate in the drafting of the law, but unfortunately they did not prove cooperative. That's a fact. They responded only through the media to oppose the law, but did not make any concrete constructive proposals. It is true, however, that individual lawyers have also responded with concrete proposals and many of these concrete proposals from individual lawyers, which we have received, we have also taken into account if they have been reasonable and reasonable. With regard to the allegations, if, one international and I do not know any legal association, we also have to say clearly and explicitly before the Slovenian public that in the European Union, which is also a member of Slovenia and Slovenia, is also chairing the European Union, Slovenia is currently the only country under the applicable law where the Bar Association with the consent of the Ministry of Justice sets a legal tariff, which is also recognised in judicial proceedings. It's the only country. At the Ministry, the co-workers have made a thorough analysis of the setting of the tariff, which is recognised in judicial proceedings in all Member States of the European Union, and if you wish, we will present this in particular. As regards the level of the legal award to be provided for by law, we must stress that the lawyer and the client will be able to arrange not only for up to 15% of the higher prize, but also for the lower prize as provided for in the law in force. Of course, any agreement between a client and a lawyer, either at a lower or higher award, will have to be documented in writing, it is also said signed by the party. It is also true that a party, which was already limited by one of the Members today, does not know how much this service will cost when it comes to a lawyer. It does not know how much it will have to give for the action, for the pre-trial applications, for the answers to the action, for the complaints, for the objections, for the audits, for the requirements for the protection of legality, for the number of main hearings, for the length of delays, in the end the client will pay for all of this. Let us be honest with our citizens and citizens, as well as with economic operators. However, the proposed law on legal tariffs will make this very clear. By the time she gets to the lawyer, she'll know in advance how much the trial will cost her in the first degree, how much she will pay for the second. If the client authorizes the lawyer to settle, then how much will she pay for the service and, on the other hand, will receive a refund of the court fee. However, a lawyer without a client will not be able and will not be able to, and even now must not, conclude any judicial or extrajudicial settlement outside the power. As regards the applicable legal tariff, I must point out here that every year the Ministry of Justice receives reports from all Slovenian courts on its work in the past year. From each court individually. And if you'll excuse me, I would like only here to comment on the annual reports of individual courts in the work, which also relates to court proceedings, on the legal rate. Maybe I'll quote some. Case: The Higher Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana says it is not appropriate to transfer individual procedural institutes into procedural legislation unless certain other systemic areas, including the award of lawyers, have also been changed simultaneously. The District Court of Murska Sobota, in its 2006 report, states that a specific case of excuses from lawyers seeking a postponement of the proceedings delays the proceedings and thus delays the proceedings. The Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana says that until the adoption of new, more appropriate legal arrangements for the award of lawyers can not be expected to be stimulated to complete proceedings as soon as possible. The District Court in Celje states or writes: "The judges are primarily waiting for the already promised reform of the legal tariff, as it requires a huge amount of time to be spent on the legal costs and, above all, does not motivate the Commissioners to complete and timely procedural tasks and to properly state and critique the client's position in the proceedings. The District Court in Celje expects that the work of lawyers in the process of adopting a law amending the Law on Lawyers will address the weaknesses found and shortcomings of the current regulation in the field of lawyering. The district court in Šentjuruy notes that it is also certain that the current system of legal tariffs contributes to the fact that more orders and other cases for a lawyer are welcome, so amendments to the law on legal tariffs and the law on legal representation are envisaged, certainly, a step in the right direction, which will also contribute to the reduction of judicial backlogs. The county court in Cyprus says that a flat-rate system of awards should certainly be introduced, as it is regulated, for example, in Germany. The District Court in Brežica says: "It is especially in recent years that there is often a tendency to delay individual procedures, which would be easy to resolve by changing the legal tariff." The Kamnik District Court in its 2007 Labour Report proposes to adopt as soon as possible a legal rate whereby lawyers would be paid for the case alone, but not according to the number of proceedings committed. The Ptuj District Court notes in its 2007 report that the reduction of proceedings would certainly be able to be achieved by appropriate amendments to the Law on Lawyers or Tariffs, where a maximum number of points for counsel or counsel would be set in advance for each criminal case. And so on, I wouldn't burden you with that. Furthermore, I would just like to mention that the proposed amendment to the Law on Lawyers and the new Law on Lawyers has also been supported by other Slovenian courts, from the court in Krske, Novi mesto, Črnomlje, Slovenski Bistrica, Šentjurje pri Celje and also in Ljubljana. Furthermore, we must not forget that the twinning project of the test interinstitutional cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the Federal Republic of Germany during the period from November 2002 to the end of April 2004, i.e. the previous mandate, has also identified and stressed that, among other things, a greater contribution should be made to the speedy resolution of cases in the courts by a selective tariff on the resolution of disputes at an early stage of settlement procedures. Such changes in legal tariffs would make it possible for the courts to work more effectively. Some thought was also mentioned as to why the German concept. Our entire Slovenian procedural legislation generally follows the German concept, from the law on judicial procedure, the law on criminal proceedings, in part, to the law on judicial fees, which you will deal with tomorrow. And, of course, the legal rate or payment of the costs of legal services in judicial proceedings is also linked to the proceedings. Therefore, it is logical and reasonable that the whole concept is not that one law is, I don't know, according to the German concept, the other by Romanian, the third by Spanish, the fourth by Italian. Yeah, well, then where would we go? The system must be stable and, above all, a meaningful interrelationship, as these laws are interlinked within judicial proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Dimitriy Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I do not know what the aim of the statement made to the Minister in today's debate was to try to get him through as many laws as possible by the end of his term of office. That's what your fellow Member said. This, however, is the purpose of bringing them through as many laws as possible necessary for this country during the term of office. As is the object of the opposition's efforts to get through as few such laws as possible. Of course, the object of the opposition is to make it appear as bad as possible, for then the opposition could read the ruling suit that it was not successful. But I don't know what that obvious purpose was, because I don't think it makes sense. Surely not the most expensive lawyers are the worst, but the best are probably not. This is similar to the call for proposals. Usually the cheapest and the most expensive aren't the best, but it's usually the best in the middle. There are exceptions, but that's usually the way it is here. The talk about some being deprived now of the best lawyers, because they're too expensive, I don't think it's justified. There are contracts in the business world. Why? But among those who are honest, who are right, there is no need for a contract. All you have to do is shake hands and hold on to what's agreed. But it is precisely because of those who are not honest and proper that contracts are concluded. And even in the field of lawyering, if all lawyers were ideal, there would be no need for any state regulation. But lawyers, like all other professions, are conscientious, conscientious, honest, dishonest, precise, inaccuracy. It is also here because of this, precisely because of those who do not do their work as they should and are expected to do, a certain state regulation is needed. Also in the area of charging services. Despite the fact that this regulation exists and is now specifically laid down by law, this legal tariff allows for a very large degree of autonomy in that the lawyer and the client have an autonomous response to the award. And I think that the purpose of every law, as I have already said in the introduction, is to adopt a solution in the public interest or in the interest of those who need legal services. It's primary. Primaryly, legislation must be adopted in the interest of those who use legal services and then secondaryly in the interests of lawyers. But this legislation is not even contrary to the interests of lawyers, despite the fact that the Chamber of Lawyers has opposed, although, as we have heard, it has not proposed any concrete changes and corrections, which would then be worth discussing and would also be established on this basis. It seems to me that, however, it is necessary to take into account that counseling is a self-serving and independent service. I'm sure. But since this service is intended or carried out in the public interest or even in the public interest, since it is not an ordinary economic activity, this service, which is autonomous and independent, independent and independent, must also be regulated by the State. And that's what this law is about now. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the proposer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u190	Thank you so much for saying that. There's just one more thing about the obvious or doubt that there's an extra burden on you to calculate legal awards through the new system. Here I have to make it clear that the way in which costs are calculated in court proceedings under the proposed law will be significantly faster, simpler, less items, but above all there will be no summation, as I mentioned earlier, of individual procedural acts, and then in the form of points, and then in the terms of points converted to the value of points and then to the euro. Here the calculation or procedure will be very fast, easy. Of course, a computer application is also envisaged for all Slovenian courts. It is a simple application, which is also available in the Federal Republic of Germany, where such a system has such a system, which does not require any specific additional costs, so the work of judges and experts in the court will be significantly easier and easier by this way of setting tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u191	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Check-in is on. Seven panellists have been reported. You have five minutes each. Mr Mitja Ljublješek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd use those five minutes. I think it'll be less. First of all, I'm going to give a brief replica to Mr Ptræ, because I didn't make a notification before, and given his criticism against us coalition Members, you're going to insult them all the time. I don't think I'm anybody in my debate, not today, not ever before. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u193	Mr Ljublješek, you cannot answer or have a replica in the rest of this time. Please, if you're discussing.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u194	I will. Today is a general treat, at least that's what I think. Individual legal provisions, individual articles and solutions are likely to be discussed in depth in the following cases. I limited myself to just one segment that really bothers me, this is the monopoly of the Bar, and the cartel charging of certain legal services. Every monopoly bothers me, I oppose every monopoly. Every monopoly goes to the detriment of service users. We also see this in the business cartel in Slovenia, which goes to the detriment of the buyers and is clearly followed by inflation. I had not previously found in my debate a newspaper article where they tried to calculate the prices of the most common legal services on the basis of this bill. And I would like to say some of these items because citizens of the Republic of Slovenia or users of business services understand the most how much a service costs. And, for example, the value of the disputed item of EUR 10 000, where the indicative price is now EUR 1,300, following this proposal is EUR 787, almost half lower. The value of the disputed item of EUR 50 000 is now EUR 2,600, with € 1,700 following this proposal. The dispute over the cancellation of the employment relationship is now €800, followed by a proposal of €307. I'm not saying that this is an accurate calculation now, but this medium has tried to calculate it and it's going to be about that much, euro up or down, but it's also moving around in these values. Whether it's like an act, like a suggestion or not, I don't know. Some in the opposition seem not to like it, but it certainly is useful for citizens or beneficiaries of legal services, because they will pay half less for the same service they are currently paying. And I think this is a good proposal, regardless of the fact that we have heard today from the opposition of criticism against the government, the minister, the coalition MPs who advocate this proposal. The manure spills from the opposition for the intro, and then serious discussion begins. Although I do not know how the coalition was friendly with the opposition in the previous term and with what kindness it accepted their proposals and amendments, I was not a Member. But as far as I was following TV, I saw that nothing was adopted and there was a lot of arrogance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u196	Thank you. I am pleased that the Minister has returned because I believe that the mark of the Minister of Arrogance is also an indication of the opposition's request or proposal for a general hearing, because I would expect the Minister of Justice to take into account the regularity, legitimacy of the funds available to the opposition under the Rules of Procedure. If I were to go on now, I would also understand the excuse of the Secretary of State, who, by quoting the comments of a number of courts, justified that, in fact, the Law on the Bar would be a miraculous remedy to remedy all problems and judicial backlogs, judging by what comes as a comment from the courts. And I'm not so sure it's gonna be a miracle cure. As I am also not sure that one of the coalition Members will understand that this is the law that speaks of this subject, which is called the Law on the Bar and nothing else, because it has earlier been circumscribed by the fact that this law only speaks about it, but it is true that I miss myself among the objectives of the law, but in particular among the principles of the law, the reference to the quality of the procedure and the quality of the trial. It is only about the time dimensions, the quantity to say so, but there is no mention of how much such a measure will contribute to the quality of the procedures. A number of complaints from individuals come to the petition committee, mainly at the expense of the judgments handed down, at the expense of the courts. But I must say, exceptionally, indeed, only exceptionally, what a complaint at the expense of legal services. And we've already had the opportunity to find out that some lawyer, as they say in the jargon, would "screw" the matter and not work for his client. I am also fortunate that in life I did not need one lawyer and will not tire you with what Slovenian literature says about lawyers, judges and similar client defenders. However, I could use a few names and examples of lawyers who have made a fortune on the account of denationalisation and representation of parties in denationalisation. And these people's voices say they're the richest citizens in their city. For you, Mr. Secretary, it's too late to put them in order, I'd say, with that. What I would now like to say from the point of view of the drafting of the laws and all those of which we have discussed today, Mr State Secretary said that they have taken note of their comments if they have found their sense and reasonableness. It is the highly arbitrariness of law-makers who judge whether the comments of those concerned by the laws are, in this case, lawyers, or whether these observations are reasonable and reasonable. I'm sorry. It's very insulting what I heard. And something that is the general practice of this government, boasts about how it wants to deregulation, decentralize decision-making, but it is not the only law where the minister takes the right to make decisions instead of a housing association. Any other decision taken by the Chamber is taken, in which case the tariff determination is reliable. And this is what bothers me, and this is what puts into question the first objective of this law, and this, so written here, please, clearly and loudly, that the modernisation of the determination of legal awards should be acceptable both to lawyers and to clients. Yes, but where can it be seen from this law and from the drafting of the law and the opinion on the law that it is acceptable for lawyers to do what you have proposed? I will not support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u198	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that Mr Ljubeljšek is not in the circle of Members and Members, whom I would judge, could also be unobjective that he is offensive. However, in my opinion, he has quite a few colleagues within his parliamentary group, who are clearly doing so. Mr Kovacic has taken the lead on this today, at least as far as I am concerned. I think it is bad that Members and Members do not argue certain positions, but we define positions. This law is good and excellent, and this law will fix it, and this law is European. This law needs to be amended because it is still looked at in the previous system. You know all that, colleagues and colleagues, talk. You don't tell me one piece of evidence and one case. And it bothers me that you should believe that your statement is the truth. Second of all, Mr. Secretary. Decisions, decisions in the National Assembly shall also be made on your part with more or less arguments. The law regulates a new extremely important area. The claims, partly referred to by colleague Potrate, at least one, are different, such as the solutions that are the contents of the law. And it would be good to give more arguments and less on the part of the Government of flat-rate claims. Mr Secretary of State, do I read poorly, have you read poorly, or have you been miseducated by your colleagues in the Ministry, because you would at least blame them. But you said that there is no European country in which the rate would be set by the Bar. I read the text written on page 14 of your material under Spain. You or the government gave only three cases. One of these is Spain. The Bar of each province shall have certain minimum tariff items applicable to legal tariffs. You probably don't expect or require me to read a text that is short under Spain from the beginning to the end, but nowhere is your claim that the tariff is set by the National Assembly or Parliament by law, but it explicitly states that it is set by the Bar. How can we trust you if you're making such a lapsus? I believe you'll find some excuse, because I'm not saying you're not good at it, but the facts are what I can read in your recorded material. And in the end, once again, I don't want to talk about bad intentions. Maybe you want to, or I believe you want everything you've predicted here to be such a result. However, there are no arguments, Mr. Minister, for the result you have offered. If you smile when we have - not now - before that - when we have doubts and claim that this law may have the effect of increasing the differentiation regarding legal certainty, depending on whether we are able to pay or not, you claim that it will not. Why would my claim that she'd be less valuable than yours, that she wouldn't, and you didn't offer any arguments. I argue that this will increase, because few lawyers who will be prepared to work for a specific legal rate in the law will work if they have written that there is a possible agreement, and with any agreement for a higher tariff or prize, as you say, they will probably conclude such an agreement. There's no problem with them, because you're the one who specifically offered them that opportunity in the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Dimitri Kovacich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. Since I was just directly marked as being offensive, I would really like to know a single word that was offensive to you in my debate, Mr Ptrč. You won't find a word like that. The only thing I've actually read to you is that you are all too often in your debates to all the others who disagree, who think differently than you, very debilitating. And this time this last debate was still at least this way, it was more possible to discuss an offended person who was offended and who was supposed to be me in this case. But if you read a magnetogram, you won't find a single word that could be labeled offensive in any way. Look, when we're talking about discussions, I've always stressed that it's right to discuss that it's right that we have different views, but that we don't just argue that something is wrong. Let's make a suggestion! Before that, it was said that everything we propose will not be taken into account. That's not true. The lawyer's office didn't suggest anything. She just objected. But individual lawyers directly proposed, made comments and proposed concrete solutions that they had taken into account at the Ministry, see the fragment. And you're saying no. You try, you try, you try to make a suggestion. Maybe you'll be surprised. Do you judge by yourself as you did when you were in power in the previous term, rejecting all proposals? At that time, concrete proposals were put forward, and you were quick to reject them in order. Are you judging yourself that these proposals will receive the same fate today? I think it's unjustifiable to talk like that. And there's something else I'd like to say in the end. I do not agree with the fact that some lawyers have been enriched by representation in denationalisation procedures. Just the opposite. Just the opposite. I don't have this exact information, but I don't believe it. Just the opposite. They've been enriched with the simplest legal jobs. When they received a flat rate, for example, to invest payment orders in some large companies, in particular public companies. In the previous term, it was a huge deal. And I also know the cases in the municipalities, even in the largest Slovene municipality, where some lawyers were budgeted. They got laid every month just to be ready if anyone needs them. In fact, there was a lot of unjustifiable profits, huge profits. For simple tasks or for no tasks, only to be available if necessary. So just think about it with some data that they are at denationalisations, certainly, because many lawyers have been involved in denationalisations as well, but that is exactly what they would have earned, but I do not believe because there is no logic that they would have earned over what is provided for in the legal tariff. [[...]] There may also be some deviations, but in a global way, I don't think it's the right thing to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Moge. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I would have responded first to someone saying that these weren't pre-election bubbles. When on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development, on a proposal from the opposition, we discussed the pressing problems of higher education, such as quality, the network of universities, the tycoonisation of higher education, everyone said they were pre-eminent bubbles, from first to last, and that this was only meant for obtaining electoral votes. Now that you have brought us a series of laws three months before the end of this term, which you say the golden age will take place in the Republic of Slovenia when we adopt these laws, listen, because we are not fools to see where the dog taco prays. Mr Secretary of State, you should actually blush when you listed the opinions of these courts. The law in force states that the legal rate is adopted by the Slovenian Bar in agreement with the Minister. So, if anyone has a consent, they also have a responsibility. It means that for four years, the minister has been working very badly to make a situation like this with a lawyer. At least I understand that logically, so I should have reacted to these things a long time ago, agree with them and come up with concrete solutions, not come here today first with this law hanging like a newborn, and then only the law on lawyers. Three months before the election. Listen, I'm telling you, this is an irresponsible act. You know, lawyers, priests, doctors, professors and so on, they're intellectual professions. At least that's what we used to call them. And these people who do these jobs are certainly not poor. The Germans have another very interesting saying about them, saying, "The only lawyer who represents himself has a madman as a lawyer." This means that these professions are very well paid. Don't tell me they didn't. And if in a market economy where it applies more than before, in the national language, I will say, "For more money, more music", in the market economy, you do not limit these things, the prices of legal services under Article 4 will fly to the sky if they see that the market can be used that way. They'll only be able to afford them, excuse me, rich. The poor will be deprived of legal protection. And if I go a little too far, it can happen to us at lawyer prices as it is at oil prices today, where the market principle also applies and there is no upward limit. But as for the German model, you could say the following. Listen, the German model is not the only saving model. You've had a bunch of cases around here. You, Comrade Potch, have only told one of them. If we have always had a tradition in Slovenia that lawyers represented some independent quality service, yes, why do we have to assume today that they will now work even better for their customers for less money, to give this tariff to discipline them and to determine them as legal experts. In my opinion, I think that this domain should remain between the Ministry, between the Minister as the chief at the summit of the judiciary and between lawyers. And if the Minister flees from this responsibility, it means that he does not master the situation, that he is not capable of doing such a thing in order as can be put in order in other countries of the European Union and where such a thing can work very well. But I'd say there's only one more thing about lawyers. You know, as with some of us, when a lawyer succeeds in justice, these parties are extremely grateful to them. I have a wife who's been retired for three years, but she's been a lawyer her whole life as one of the first lawyers. What letters they wrote to her! She herself felt like an extremely useful man of this society. But what I heard today about lawyers from some people here, I'm sorry, dear colleagues and colleagues, but it was extremely, extremely insulting and unworthy of this National Assembly. That's why I apologize to my lawyers from this town. There are people like all of us together, some are good, others are bad, and they don't just work for money, but they also have an ethical drive.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u204	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I didn't mean to come by, but not so much arrogance and shame and misbehaviour as this marriage, but not for a long time. I quote Mr Kovacic: "It is therefore right that the state regulates and regulates the price of legal services and that this price is not left to the operators themselves." What you said was pure illogical. Because if it were true that you wanted to introduce the German system, gentlemen of the government, then there wouldn't be a fourth article. You have introduced a system that is a complete mixture of a German, Danish, Dutch and Spanish model. And this is not an adjustment to the proposed regulation of the European Union's legal order, but to a quasi-German model. What's the problem? If you define in a given offer and demand - and of course the offer of lawyers in Slovenia is given, is fixed, a thousand and a few more - and if you set the legal tariff, as you will determine it, it will be crucial that this tariff will be a purely normal fee. And there will be a fundamental question of Article 4, determining the prize. And therefore, gentlemen, the price will be left to the operators of these activities - lawyers. And now we are in this discussion, which are good and who are bad lawyers. You know, that's just how people think about these people. And this is measured by how much demand there is for them. And that's why people go to good lawyers. And if all lawyers have the same tariffs, then good lawyers organize stronger lawyers' offices, have lawyers and so on. They organize the work better to better service their customers. And they're not more expensive lawyers, they have more traffic, but they have traffic at the same rate. Now you're going to introduce exactly the contradiction, you're going to set a low bar, and those so-called ones you have in mind, the more expensive lawyers are going to say, "I have the opportunity to dictate the price demand. Whoever is able and willing to pay more, according to the law, will pay more." And, Mr Sturm, ask Minister Bajuk, he has little economic knowledge of what it means to fix the price of demand when offered. An alternative demand is created, a black market is created, and you, in citing it, in some way even made it possible with Article 4. It would have happened anyway. And what will you do in the end, or will you institute a state's attorney? That's why this marriage is stupid. Arrogant and not true, Mr. Kovacich, not even what you said here. I see you didn't listen to Bite at economic college. You said it was right for the state to regulate the price of legal services, but you forgot article 4 of the law. And so-called German advisors. I know this study. I signed the contract myself, after which the gentlemen came to do this. But they said much more than just transfer the tariff to the Slovenian legal order. They said that the court order should be changed, that some additional computers should be purchased. Go take a look in Bosnia, see what the court is like. So the judges are paid better than the President of the Government. And don't tell me you're introducing a story of a better legal order that will limit the demand for those who are good today. They'll be asked questions, only people will pay more. And that is why I think the story, as recorded in this law, reflects the arrogance of the ministry, which at first does not understand the fundamental economic characteristics of the service industry and the copying of some already obsolete German system. And we are adapting to the legal order of Germany. With regard to Bosnia and Herzegovina, let me tell you, Mr Kovacic, if you walk around this country, you will see that one of the few institutions that works is the judiciary. Because they have all the court records on their computers, and they use the best quality experience in the Danish and Dutch legal order. But not copying what someone saw and just doing it because they want to frame a group of people during the pre-election period and try to prove to people that everything is wrong because lawyers are more expensive. Lawyers will be even more expensive [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Mag. Squeak. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u206	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! A few words on the edge of everything we said today. I cannot but avoid saying again what I have said more than once, that this coalition, this government, has one so stable habit that it always finds or makes a minority that it has found that maybe the people would turn against it. Once they were cops, and they were teachers, and there were judges, Romi, now they've been wiped out, and there'd be someone else. Well, now they're lawyers, and they deserve "beautiful." Of course, it's probably someone, but it's probably just normal. To, of course, justify this attack on one of the new smaller ones, invent a series of arguments or find them in half and half. I must say that the analysis of the Faculty of Law speaks of the reasons for the duration of criminal proceedings, reveals and has revealed that the conduct of lawyers is not a decisive factor in the duration of these proceedings. In fact, the reason is that until the criminal procedure establishes an institution for the recognition of guilt, which would mean the end of the proceedings, and as long as the parties can propose evidence in criminal proceedings in final proceedings, the proceedings will not be reduced. This is an analysis of, say, an institution that is more attested to than those who act on the saying "malus omnia and malum believe," says those who turn everything into evil and bad. As this reform of the German model has been summarized, I would not discuss it. It's about what the Poles somehow designed and failed what worked for them. However, in response to those who are very concerned about this hiccups or who feel that they are grateful for this hiccups before the elections, this hyperproduction of laws, legislative proposals for novelties and all, is to say something that has occurred, say, in the European Court of Human Rights. The judge of the European Court of Human Rights, Dr Peter Jambrek, you probably know him, pointed out years ago that one of the most reliable lessons of the organisational theory is that each organizational reform has more influence and power in the hands of the one who planned and carried out the reform. And this proposed reform is also going in this direction - it greatly strengthens the power of the political authorities, in this case certainly the government, and perhaps also parliaments, of course, because we are deciding on this, in relation to a very important part of justice, this is the bar. So again, against that third lever of power. This does not apply only to this law, but to anyone else. And these are the reasons why we should imagine not only the opposition, but also the coalition, because today we know where we are and tomorrow we don't? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Does he want a word with the government's representative? Here you go, Minister, you have five minutes available, just once.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the debate so far, in particular the opposition representatives, I have found that they do not know the applicable law governing the payment of legal services. Somehow, in one voice, there were claims here against the proposal for a new law, if only this new law would allow lawyers to form their own price. That's not true. After all, you need to know this for yourself, as some lawyers are known to charge their services. This makes it possible for them to have the present law. And in this respect, there is no difference, for the current law is the one that allows them to do so, and this also allows them a new law, because lawyers also need to be called for a free profession. However, the new law lays down some standards that are more equitable for the parties. The current tariff, which has already been established by lawyers themselves, is particularly unfavourable for customers in lower-value disputes where customers have to pay higher tariffs if they go only on tariffs higher than, say, in Germany. Therefore, the current tariff proposal in these conflicts constitutes a significant reduction. And thus a fairer distribution of costs. Actually, I have to say, there's been some kind of misunderstanding here. Apparently, among the opponents who have seen that we will now release the price of legal services. That's not true. I have to say no to that claim. And if you want, I can meet with all of you in particular, or with each one of you, to take a closer look at the current legislation, to look at the practice of lawyering, and to see where the basis for such a situation is. Just please don't report that we're suddenly opening up some free pricing here because that's not true. Surely, the way in which tariffs are fixed is more democratic if that is said by the legislative authority, than if it is determined, as it often says, by the representative of the executive authority. And as we can see, this is not a unique solution. It is a solution that has been tested and which has produced very good results in practice, and we do not see any reasons why we should not implement it as soon as possible. Let me get this over with, this is the first debate, and we will have a lot more to say about it. If you're against the concept, then it means breaking up with the law, which is hard. Well, let me put it this way. I've heard some strange things. Unusual findings were why we come to the National Assembly with laws. Look, these laws you're adopting today in the National Assembly, and there's a few of them, were created at the Ministry last year. Then we put them in the procedure after the new year, but preparations were already under way last year, deep in last year's year, because, as I can see, they are very difficult. I don't know what you really want. That I'd cross my hand sitting for a year and a half in the Ministry so we wouldn't do anything? Is that your request? Well, that's a very unusual observation. Of course, we have made 55 proposals. But when we took office, she was hanging over us as Damokle's sword of threat to pay very high damages to the European Court of Justice. These compensations could rise to up to 800 million or even billions of euros. We rejected this threat and did everything we could to eliminate the backlogs. And we're successful at that. With different receptions, there was a lot of, as you said, there were a lot of experiments, but we didn't sit with arms crossed and frankly - we did everything we could to put that heavy burden on us in 1994 and 1995, as soon as possible. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Let's save it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Please, Mr. Tiny. What would you like?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u210	There's still time to go. Can you give it to me?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-03-26-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u211	No, no. The time has been divided and there is only a one-time application and all of you who have applied have been given the floor. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide tomorrow, Thursday 27 March 2008, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 37th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night.
