ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 36th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Zvonko Černač by 5 p.m., mag. Janez Petnik from 9.30 a.m., Dr. Slavko Gaber, Matjaž Han, Ferry Horvat, Ivan Jelen, mag. Vasja Klavora, Bojan Kontič, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Alojz Sok and Bogomir Zamernik. We're moving to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A DECISION ON THE AGREEMENT AND AMENDMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT ON CRITERIA AND CONDITIONS FOR THE USE OF THE FUND FOR THE FINANCING OF INVIDENTIAL AND HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The proposal for a decision on consent was submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. I give the floor to the President, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, for a further presentation of the proposal. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome everything very well, with Mrs State Secretary from the Ministry of Labour, Mrs Tomcheva, at the head. I will not, however, further explain the proposal for an act, but merely submit a report to the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, which is as a parent working body at its 34th regular session of 13. 2. The proposal for amendments to the Rules on criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia has been addressed. Representatives of the proposer participated in the work of the committee, with the Acting Director of FIHA mag. Mr Janez Jug, representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, Ms Romano Tomc, State Secretary, and the representative of the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia. Representatives of the society for the theory and culture of handicap were also present. The legislative and legal service has not commented on the text of that act in the light of its application; it only proposes that the final wording of the text of the text "the provision that is being amended" instead of the last sentence of the last paragraph of Article 21 be defined as the last sentence of the second paragraph of Article 21. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Government, which has no substantive comments on the proposal for a text. However, it has proposed some nomotechnical corrections, but it has also countered this opinion by a letter from the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. The Commission of the State Council supports the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. The Acting Director of FIHA initially explained that the Foundation or the Council of the Foundation had prepared this amendment in accordance with the amended Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. After a short discussion, the Committee adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly to agree to amend the Rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of the funds of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present his position. Mrs. Romana Tomc, Secretary of State. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Due to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, it was necessary to amend the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of funds of the Foundation. In order to comply with the law, the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia prepared a proposal for amendments to the Rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of the Fund for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, which was also adopted by the Council of the Foundation at its 21st session in November 2007. The rules on criteria and conditions for the use of funds from the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia are amended in Article 21. This amendment provides for the application of a complaint against the decision to allocate funds to the Foundation on the basis of a call for tender within 15 days of the adoption of the decision. The necessary legal basis for the teaching of the legal remedy is also defined as a mandatory component of any decision on the application for allocation of funds of the Foundation under a call for tender, as required by the provision of the last paragraph of the new Article 14a of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia. The introduction of a complaint institute means greater legal certainty for the users of the Foundation's assets.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Please, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, on behalf of the group of unrelated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Good morning, fellow Members of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and also all those who accompany us in this regard, I will say, relatively early in the hour. I'm going to be both points 1 and 2, because they're connected, trying to summarize in this short presentation. Basically, I must say that we do not oppose the proposed solutions in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa. We are not opposed or opposed because the fact is that we are talking about high financial resources. The distribution of funds at annual level is about €18 million to disabled, humanitarian and sports organisations. As the practice has shown, there has undoubtedly been an irregularity, a lack of transparency. And what is most painful about the whole story is that organisations that could be eligible for FIHA or the Foundation for the Financing of Disability and Humanitarian Organisations had no recourse. The first law refers to the possibility of a complaint following a new organisation which is not satisfied with the decision on the allocation of funds. Well, what I think is more controversial is the proposed solution under the second law. This is the body that will decide on the complaint against the decision of the Foundation itself. The fact is - and this is also expressed by the Ministry or Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which gave an opinion on the proposed solution - the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the determination of the body of the foundation responsible for deciding on the complaint is in accordance with the Foundation's rules under article 14a of the law. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia points out that, from the point of view of the rule of law or the protection of the rights of candidates to allocate funds to the Foundation, which includes the right to an independent and impartial decision, which also excludes any possible overlapping of interests, is controversial. Therefore, the proposed solution is disputed that it is decided at the first and second stages of the Foundation. So, in fact, the same institution, regardless of the fact that this is being done at different organisational levels within the foundation. This is what has already been expressed as a consideration within the framework of the home working body, which, in other words, was in some way denied by the Secretary of State. I'm guessing there's still doubt. There is still doubt that complaints are being decided against the same institutions. This, in my opinion or at the discretion of the Group of Unaffiliated Members, Lipa, does not remove any possibility of eliminating any doubt that there may be intransparency, inconsistentness or even irregularities in the allocation of funds to disabled and humanitarian organisations. This would undoubtedly make sense within the framework of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Labour, the Family and Social Affairs, and, finally, within the framework of Parliament, the National Assembly, the home labour body, to hold a debate. The evaluation of state aid and the analysis of transfers in one place, at one point of the collected transfers, of the rights of persons with disabilities and, of course, of the financial aspect of the provision of rights, including financial resources, are required. Finally, let me mention just one case that touches on the issue of the allocation of funds within the framework of the Foundation of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. It is known, for example, as the case in 2006, when a certain company or association from FIHA received financial resources for the implementation of a specific programme, namely personal assistance, 7.5 million tolars of financial resources. But this same organization, this same society, after a year when financial resources were already earmarked for the implementation of a purely defined programme, changed its thinking and financial resources, it was nothing to you, it redistributed it for other purposes. This is unfair and the possibility of a complaint, mainly within the framework of an independent body, would also remove such doubts, which the law does not fully abolish.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u8	Respectable. We have before us an amendment to the rules on the criteria and conditions for the use of FIHO funds. In the light of the provisions of the Law on the Property Conversion of Lottery, the National Assembly shall give its consent to the Regulation and, consequently, to any amendments and additions thereto. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will agree to amend the rules adopted by the Foundation's Council, by which the current regulation of Article 21 of the Regulation has been aligned with the amendment of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. This means that, in accordance with the amendment of the law, an appeal against a decision on the allocation of funds of the Foundation on the basis of a call for tender is made, while the necessary legal basis for the teaching of the legal remedy is defined as a mandatory component of any decision on the application for allocation of funds of the Foundation following a call for tender. For the only amendment to the rules of procedure is: "According to the decision on the allocation of funds by which it is decided on its application for public tender, the individual disability and humanitarian organisation may lodge a complaint within 15 days of the receipt of the decision, which shall be decided by the appellate body established by the Foundation rules." Since the Foundation is obliged to make an annual allocation of funds to disabled and humanitarian organisations for 2008 until 31.12.2007, and after the amendment of the law has just been adopted, it is necessary to ensure the effective exercise of the right to appeal and the resolution of possible complaints within legal time limits, the FIHO Council has requested the National Assembly to consider and decide on an agreement on amendments to the Rules of Procedure. The Regulation lays down that the first level of the Board of Appeal for the allocation of FIHA funds is the FIHO Supervisory Committee, which consists of representatives of humanitarian organisations, representatives of disability organisations and representatives of the Government. When giving consent, it should be pointed out that neither the Government nor the Legal and Legislative Service had any substantive comments and that there had been unanimous support for amendments to the Rules, both by the Council of State and by the home labour force. However, the opposition was presented by one of the organisations of FIHO, which considers it to be an entanglement of interests. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports amendments to the FIHO Rules and Conditions for the use of FIHO funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u10	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have decided to support the proposal for a decision amending the Rules on criteria and conditions for the use of the funds of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. It's kind of a nasty thing, even though it's simple. In particular, in order to comply with the new law and to allow an uninterrupted decision-making procedure on the allocation of funds of the Foundation under a call for tender for 2008 it is essential to amend the proposed regulation also in order to remedy this deficiency in some way, so that some disabled organisations are not currently financed. This is very personal, and I think we can apologize from this place for all the procedural problems that have led to this. Well, it has already been pointed out at the Committee's meeting that it is a matter of intertwining interests, since, at the first level, representatives of those organisations, which are recipients of funds and at the same time beneficiaries of funds, are supervisors of resources who will then decide on complaints at the final stage. In today's debate, however, I am counting on the possibility that we will somehow get to a solution that will prevent any anomalies. Until then, we hope, believe, want and also demand that the appellate body act in accordance with the law in the spirit of good governance and, above all, that there be no contraction or even termination of individual programmes financed by the Foundation. It is a matter of continuing to advocate that spending, the allocation of these funds is transparent, clear, unequivocal or with one word that we like to use in these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Petty Officer on behalf of the NSI Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u12	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I also welcome the representatives of the Government! The amendments to the Regulation that we are considering today therefore refer to the possibility of appealing to beneficiaries of the funds allocated to the Foundation for Disability and Humanitarian Organisations. Pursuant to the current Regulation, this admissibility of the complaint for the exercise of rights has not been possible. This, of course, is not the appropriate way to resolve it, so we believe that the amendment is appropriate. In particular, taking into account the fact that many words have been written and spoken in the past, the allocation of funds, the eligibility of individual disability and humanitarian organisations, and how those funds have been used by those organisations. The protection of these rights is also particularly important because the Foundation Council decides on funds and the representatives of disabled and humanitarian organisations are in this world. This means that, in some ways, the users of the funds themselves decide who will be the recipient of the funds and it is even more justified to lay down clear rules on complaints and on the appellate body and on the right to protection of rights. The Appellate Body will be determined by amending the rules which we are also considering at today's meeting. The New Slovenia Group will support the amendments to the Regulation, as well as the need to further support the amendments to the rules, i.e. this second act of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. The objective must be that FIHA’s public funds really come into the right hands to implement programmes for those in need of assistance, in a wide variety of ways, to integrate into society.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity to the Foundation, the National Assembly, by decree establishing the FIHO Foundation, transferred a large part of autonomy or autonomy to the Foundation as well. In this regard, the FIHA Council, as the highest body of this Foundation, is also responsible for the preparation and adoption of all key acts of the Foundation, and by establishing a protector at that time, so that only these decisions are subject to some minimum control through the National Assembly in terms of the issue of consent to acts and also with regard to amendments to those acts. In accordance with this autonomy, the FIHA Council has also prepared an amendment to the two key documents of the Foundation in accordance with the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia or Article 14a, which requires the Foundation to prepare the relevant legal bases, both through the Rules on the criteria and conditions for the distribution of funds and the rules themselves. The Council has thus drawn up a regulation in accordance with the amendment of the law and we support the consent of the National Assembly to such an amended regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. The Director, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u16	Dear Vice President, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! Colleagues and colleagues! The proposed act before us is practically a result of the recently adopted amendment to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia, which introduced the right to appeal against the decisions of the Foundation Council, which decided to apply for a tender for the distribution of funds of the Foundation within 15 days. Furthermore, the amendment provides that in the complaint, the Foundation body shall decide on the basis of the Foundation’s rules and its decision shall be final. The note concerning the decision of the first-degree appellate body shall contain only a reference instructing the Foundation to specify in its own acts within one year of the entry into force of the novel which authority will be responsible for this. To this end, the Foundation Council, at its regular meeting, adopted both the amendments to that Regulation and the addition of the rules and submitted them to the National Assembly to give their consent. In the DeSUS Group, we are of the opinion that this amendment to the Act is undoubtedly necessary in order to allow, in accordance with the legislation in force, an unhindered decision-making process on the allocation of funds to the Foundation. According to our assessment, the proposed amendments are appropriate, the purpose of which is to provide for a provision of a law requiring the amendment of this Regulation and which are also formulated within the framework laid down by that law. Members of the DeSUS will therefore contribute to this amendment of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Happy Friend, on behalf of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. The consent of the National Assembly to amend the Regulations on criteria and conditions for the use of FIHA funds is essentially an urgent act. This is a change which is necessary in a legal sense and introduces within the time limit of the jurisdiction of the decision issued the right to appeal, which, according to the Slovenian National Party, is binding and certainly good. The legislative and legal service has somehow given a positive opinion on this issue, and it would probably have been negatively written on their part if it had not. By thinking that this is a legal fact, which in some way calls for the legality, transparency and fairness of the use of resources, which I think we are paying attention to to the society most in need in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party we also give "for" to this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision on the agreement to amend the Rules of Procedure, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a DECISION ON AGREEMENT TO SUPPLEMENT THE RULES OF THE FUND FOR THE FINANCING OF THE INJURY AND HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The proposal for a decision on consent was submitted to the National Assembly by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. I give the floor to President Stanislav Brenčič for a further presentation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, even this key act of the Foundation, these are the rules of the Foundation, the proposed amended format was addressed by the Committee at the same meeting, with the cooperation of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government and the Foundation. Mr Jug, Acting Director of FIHO, pointed out in the opening that the Foundation had prepared a supplement to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of Loteria Slovenije, which introduced the right to appeal against the decision of the Foundation by which it decided to apply for a public invitation to tender for the distribution of funds of the Foundation. The rules of the Foundation had to be laid down in accordance with the amendment of the law by the appellate body which would deal with those complaints. The discussion highlighted the opinion of the Government, in which, during the nomotechnical corrections, there was also a substantive warning on the right to an independent and impartial decision. This could be controversial, since it is decided at the first and second stages of the Foundation, i.e. in fact the same institution, irrespective of whether the decision is taken at different organisational levels within the Foundation. The representative of the Government explained that in their opinion there was only a question of overlapping interests, but they are convinced that this will not happen in practice, so the government does not oppose the proposed solutions. In accordance with the opinion of the representative of the Government, an additional explanation was given for the material submitted by the Foundation. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly in the same way as in the Rules of Procedure that it agree to supplement the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present his views. Mrs. Romana Tomc, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u22	Your Honor! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Conversion Act of Loteria Slovenije introduces the possibility of a complaint against the decision to allocate funds to the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the provisions of the law, the foundation authority responsible for deciding on the appeal must be established by specific rules of the Foundation. The Foundation has therefore drawn up a proposal to supplement these rules and has also submitted it to the Council, which it adopted last November. The appeal will be decided by the Board of Appeal, as defined in the new Article 28a, in this Supplement, and the function of which is now assumed by the Foundation’s Supervisory Board. It is not a new body, but an extension of the competence of an existing supervisory committee, which has performed only a supervisory function in the Foundation so far. With the introduction of the Institute of Complaints, the distribution of funds from the Foundation will certainly be more transparent, and the possibility of a complaint also means greater control over the allocation of funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mrs Alenka Jeraj on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u24	Respectable. One more time. It's about the same thing that we've learned about in the previous agenda. This time it is a matter of changing FIHO rules, also in accordance with the provisions of the Property Reform Act of Loteria Slovenije. This act is agreed upon by the National Assembly. The FIHO Council proposes that, in accordance with the amendment of the Law on the Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia, which introduced the right of appeal against the decision of the Foundation Council, which decided on the application for a public tender for the allocation of funds from foundations, as determined by the FIHO Supervisory Committee as the appellant, because the law did not directly determine the appellant authority, but rather left this determination to the Foundation’s autonomy, so that they could resolve it in their rules. In view of the rational and urgent solution, it would not be appropriate, in the view of the FIHO Council, to seek solutions in the design and composition of a new appellate body, but rather to determine the competence of an existing body to resolve complaints, in this case a supervisory committee which, by its plural composition and competence, is fully in line with this task, as it is already within the existing rules of the Regulation that it is competent to decide on objections to disabled and humanitarian organisations, on the minutes of opening applications following a call for tender, identifying if they fulfil the conditions and contain documentation in accordance with the rules and public tender. Since the Foundation is obliged by 31 December 2007 to make an annual allocation of funds to disabled and humanitarian organisations for 2008 on the basis of their applications under the invitation to tender, and has just adopted the law, directly by its application, guaranteed the right to appeal and at the same time required that the decision on the award of funds under the invitation to tender explicitly include a legal study on the possibility of appeal, it is necessary to immediately implement the legal duty of the Foundation to determine, by supplementing the rules, a body which will resolve possible complaints. We also support changes to FIHO rules in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Petty Officer on behalf of the NSI Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u26	In the light of the proposal for amendments to the Regulation, it is reasonable, logical and necessary to amend the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in such a way as to determine the appeal body within the FIHA. This will therefore be the Supervisory Committee, which will enforce and ensure the protection of rights and complaints. We mentioned earlier that the FIHO Council is deciding who will be the recipient of the funds. And we find that the recipients of the funds are, in fact, those who make the decisions. That is why the issue of the effectiveness of such an appellate body is immediately raised. If the world were to be composed in such a way as to have greater powers and powers for those who do not receive funds, the procedures would be much simpler, less controversial, more transparent. In the context of the amendments to the rules and regulations, an initiative was also introduced to amend the law governing the composition of the Council. With the establishment of a world in which those who do not receive or are not entitled would certainly have fewer conflicts in Slovenia and in this foundation, much less confusion and such decisions, which have raised a lot of dust in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed amendments will be supported by the New Slovenia Group, as this process is improving the application of appeal procedures and the protection of rights. At the same time, we wonder whether these changes are sufficient.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. With the rule of law, we gave the legal basis for the establishment of a complaint to those who consider that in the area of the selection or recognition of funds under the invitation to tender this was not carried out as the complainant had imagined or wished. This act, of course, establishes a body responsible for handling these complaints. It is certainly welcome that the National Assembly gives its consent as soon as possible to both acts of the Foundation, including those currently being dealt with, so that procedures can be launched immediately, which at this time constitute a rather hot public debate and also a certain problem in the financing of one of the disabled organisations. However, at least I and our Group of Members do not see any particular fear that, in accordance with the autonomy granted to the Foundation over its management, there would be no weakness or bias on the Supervisory Board in dealing with these complaints, as the Supervisory Committee is also composed of various inputs to this Committee, as well as to the Board of the Foundation and the Supervisory Board is also a representative of the Government. In this way, in some doubt, a government representative will also be able to further engage to ensure that the decision in the Supervisory Committee is properly, transparent, in line with public administration. We support the issue of consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. The Director, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u30	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a decision on the consent to supplement the rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia is substantively linked to the previous point and to the adoption of the amendment of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije, which provided for the establishment or determination of the appellate body, by which that body shall determine the foundation itself. The proposer prepared an amendment or addition to the Foundation's rules and proposed as the most appropriate solution that the competence to resolve complaints should be conferred on the existing supervisory authority, that is, the Supervisory Committee. In view of its plurality and competence, the latter should fully meet this new task, with which we agree in the Group of Members. In addition, I should mention that the supervisory authority was designated as the appeal body of the Foundation at the time of the initial text of the amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery Slovenia, but the legislator subsequently decided on a more general solution during the adoption of this law, so that the competence to designate the appellate body was left to the Foundation’s autonomous will. We also assess that, in view of the composition of the Supervisory Committee, it is satisfied with the principles of independence and impartiality of the decision on the appeal, so the DeSUS Members will also support the proposal for a decision on consent to supplement these Foundation rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u31	Thank you very much. And Mr Happy Friend on behalf of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Since the Foundation is obliged to make an annual allocation of funds to disability and humanitarian organisations for 2008 until 31.12.2007, and since we have just adopted a new law supplementing the rules which introduce the possibility of appeal to the decision within the time limit of jurisdiction, it is also necessary to supplement in some way the rules governing essentially the functioning of the FIHO. In fact, this possibility is introduced to extend the rules in force to the appellant and thus, in essence, the possibility is also given to the appellant to deal with those complaints which arrive within the time limit of the organisation’s jurisdiction. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that this also introduces traceability in some way and also introduces a guarantee of transparency and the legality of the use of funds and, most importantly, also introduces the protection of the rights of users of these funds, as they will have the opportunity to complain and also to declare non-compliance with the law set out in the decision. This is also how we give our "for" to this supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. On the proposal for a decision on the agreement to supplement the rules, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision on the amount of funds belonging to individual political parties from the State budget in the summer of 2008. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Drag Koren, to present the decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, chairman. A good greeting to the Messengers and the Messengers! At the 41st regular meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, we also discussed, inter alia, the proposal for the allocation of funds for co-financing by the parties in 2008, submitted by the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal stated that the funds were distributed in accordance with the criteria set out in Article 23 of the Political Parties Act. There was no debate on the Committee, but the decision we are considering today has been adopted. Since the adoption of a decision pursuant to Article 23, paragraph 4, of the Law on political parties is within the competence of the National Assembly, I propose that such a decision be taken by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Žnidaršič, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u36	Your Honor! The DeSUS Group agrees with the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group. [[He's quitting.]] We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item - First defence of the draft law on restrictions and prohibitions for holders of public functions, under the regular procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. With regard to this bill, the group of 14 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matey Lahovnik requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. There's no government representative. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word has Mr. Happy Please, Mr. Friend, a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u38	Yeah. Your Honor! I think this point is very important, so it is very irresponsible that there is no government representative in the Chamber. It is true that we are a little faster to hurry, but it is only right that the presentation has been made, as well as the Rules of Procedure. And I suggest that the meeting be suspended for as long as it takes until an appropriate qualified person is acquired in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u39	I would like to tell you, Mr Friend, that the representative of the Government has the opportunity to give his opinion also in the context of the debate. [[The ad in the hall.]] I just told you this option, and I didn't tell you what we were gonna decide. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u40	See, the proposal for a law on restrictions and prohibitions for public function holders has been proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this is a very important law. We are discussing the whole mandate of the National Assembly on this issue, how we will regulate appropriate control over potential corruption. It is unacceptable that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not monitor what is happening today in the National Assembly. At the very least, I suggest, Vice-President, that even at the request of a colleague from the SNS, even at our request and also of other parliamentary groups, the meeting be suspended for a representative of the Government to come and give an additional explanation of the bill. This is such an important question that we cannot do without it. Please, if that's what you're considering.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Given that these are already two procedural proposals, you also have a third. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u42	I also have a procedural proposal, if we agree not to interrupt the meeting, to go to a presentation of the positions that are so prepared in the parliamentary group and in the views of the Government, then we should stop if there is not yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I'm adjourning the session in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u44	We're continuing our adjourned session. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Mag. Roman Rep, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members! Today, we have a law that clearly introduces ethical standards or ethical rules and also places control of topics for public function holders. The law itself ensures transparency in the functioning of public officials; in other words, it lays down clear rules of political hygiene. In preparing this law, we have taken into account the Constitutional Court's decision and eliminated the finding of non-compliance or non-compliance with the law on the non-conformity of the management of public functions with the Constitution and put in place a new supervisory body within the law itself. I have in mind the Court of Auditors, of course. The Court of Auditors is also given a new mandate by this law to detect possible corruption on the part of public function holders. Thus, the Court of Auditors will exercise control over the acceptance of gifts and the prohibition of business and the declaration of property. Why the Court of Auditors? In our view, the Court of Auditors is, of course, in a stand-alone and independent position, out of regulation and legal definition. The Court of Auditors is bound by the Constitution and the laws. It is professional and independent in its work. Finally, the Court of Auditors is also the institution which is also the most qualified to exercise supervision in the field of financial transactions. If we look at a specific law, the law clearly defines and regulates the area of acceptance of gifts, because it clearly states that acceptance of gifts is not allowed. There is an exception to protocol or casual gifts, and there is also a limit to what is acceptable or what else can be said to be hygienic. Speaking of gifts, it guarantees the transparency already mentioned, as it travels authorities to keep records of these gifts and they can also be made public. As has already been said, surveillance is under the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors. In terms of incompatibility, incompatibility is defined in the new law in order that professional officials should not engage in any gainful activity that could affect objectivity in their operation or decision-making, or that could affect the impression of impartiality or any other effect on the reputation of the official or body where the official works. With regard to control, here we went in the direction of the solution that the institution or body responsible for the appointment of the official is in control of this work. In particular, if we look at, say, mayors and mayors, we think that this supervision should, of course, be by the municipal electoral commission, in the courts of the Council of Justice, when we talk about officials in the State Prosecutor's Office, we have the State Prosecutor's Council, not least for the President of the Republic and for you, Members of Parliament and Members, we have a national electoral commission here. We are convinced that the solution that we have known in the past, which has somehow gone in this direction to be controlled by an institution here in Ljubljana, is inappropriate and probably lifeless. It is hard to imagine that someone from Ljubljana will be able to identify these circumstances for all officials throughout Slovenia. We are of the opinion that it is best that this segment of control is in the hands of the one who finally appoints the official and, finally, the official is also responsible to him. About the property registration and the property status. Officials shall also be obliged by this Act to declare such property immediately or at the latest within one month either at the time of their appearance or termination of their functions or their term of office. The Court of Auditors, as has already been said, is the one called that will, of course, monitor and supervise this. A key quality change and a step forward is also a day with this new, previously mentioned mandate. For the Court of Auditors will not only monitor, for we have few battles since our monitoring. The Court of Auditors will also have the opportunity to exercise control when, of course, there are doubts or suspicions that the official has significantly greater assets than he could have on the basis of the salaries he receives at the time of his office. Of course, such an audit will also be able to review the financial situation, not only of the officials, but also of the immediate family members, and this will also be the basis for appropriate action. The law also defines a ban on business as we have known it before. Finally, in the transitional provisions, the law also regulates the transition to a new system and regulates, I will say, the Commission's issue of preventing corruption. By means of this law, this Commission will terminate its operation from 1.1.2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u46	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Lucky Friend on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Of course, we will not support the proposal mentioned in the Slovenian National Party because the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Act on the Incompatibilities of the Management of Public Functioning with Profit Activities, and we believe that this law is appropriate, even though the Constitutional Court has given a non-compliance in Article 3 in its record. Why do we disagree with the proposed novel? The Court of Auditors is also expected to take control of these powers, of course, following a new one. Please! The Court of Auditors is not already performing its duties today. It seems popular, works very, in fact, illegal, if you want and, of course, also untransparent. Why? I'll just give you one case. We had to file a criminal complaint in the Slovenian National Party because the Court of Auditors failed to carry out its task. A criminal complaint against a known perpetrator who illegally acquired a large amount of property. It's a huge asset. The Court of Auditors was invited to review the State Enterprise. To review the operation of a state-owned company before sale. It didn't do that. Even auctioneers were prevented from looking at business documents prior to the sale of the company. And here I think, if the wide-ranging President of the Court of Auditors proposes to replace the minister, let him resign first, because in this way he allows corruption and clientism, if you want, also a large, large group, the operation of a large association, which is a criminal, according to our assumptions, also through the help of the court, to reach such legal decisions. It's sad, you know. And to the Court of Auditors, which has an independent and independent position in the system of state and authority, we control such an important segment as essentially the property situation of individuals in Slovenia who perform public functions. Please, this is extremely unrealistic and the Court of Auditors is already, as it is said today, for itself and it seems to be only doing what is well paid for by individuals on some parallel channels. I know I've said some hard words, but that's what the prosecution will show. Simply ignore such a crime by the Court of Auditors cannot be tolerated anymore. Tolerance is no longer possible. Another thing I'd like to say to you. We, when this law was proposed, have received many criticisms in the National Assembly, you know that, and you have criticised us for essentially wanting to end Kosovo's commission because the Government has ordered us to do so. Today, the government is proposing another law, for which we do not have to agree on the content and we will not support it. And I ask you, if the representatives of the government official can tell me that the minister is not competent in this area, to tell me what is wrong with all the applications that the Kosovo Commission has already addressed to the various law enforcement, prosecution and so on, which have just disappeared somewhere, they are gone. You know, this commission works, and we never said that it works badly, this commission has so many and so many reports, it has written so many and so many proposals for criminal charges, because it alone cannot file a criminal complaint because it does not have these powers, it can only collect data as much as we have received individuals and so on. And from this point of view, what was done by the law enforcement authorities on what that commission did? Nothing, nothing, underlined zero! And today, to say that we will fight corruption in such a way that we will give every authority to the Court of Auditors, forgive me, because I am going to laugh, it is truly irresponsible, insulting and, in the first place, we should set up such an Court of Auditors as would be able to carry out the work in accordance with the law and purpose for which it is established. Maybe two more things I want to say. See, here you state that the existing body will have to strengthen its human resources. Of course, the area of corruption is very complex, and you also suggest that the Commission be strengthened until the delegation of powers to the Court of Auditors. However, you have been reminded of this by the existing commission all along. Now we will without a problem also give money to provide administrative and technical conditions, and for wages for which it has not been paid so far, we will strengthen the human resources institution - and so far it has not been necessary, and so far it has been irrelevant. It's a good thing they didn't shut their power down in their seat. I'm surprised they even have electricity to have phones, you know, I'm really surprised. Your Honor! If there is any seriousness, honesty, and good willingness, then let us draw out known facts. The President of the Government said behind this counter: "I am aware of the sources of property and all the yachts that are tied up in Portorož marina and other European ports." Tell him who owns these yachts! We don't need this commission or the Court of Auditors or any other commission! It can immediately be seized, we have so-called investigative prisons, and let's put these people in a little cold so they can cool down and tell them where they get this huge amount of money in 15 years. For many, you know, I know that 17 years ago they had just some APN 4, this is Tomos' engine, and they were coming to Rosko to yell at the megaphone - there was also me, of course, in support of our premiere, which was closed. Today, these people have an enormous amount of money in their banks, they probably know about the first number, and the other zeros in the back are already running out of memories because this number changes from day to day. It's corruption and customerism! And that's where you have to step on your toes. And if we know this information, and the Prime Minister said we know it, the police know it, then why don't we act? First-class transmission! By changing, abolishing this commission and giving power from 1.1.2009 to the Court of Auditors, we will do absolutely nothing. We will even blur this truly very fertile field, and from it we will be able to gather even more actively what has grown with the efforts of individuals and what we have taken away especially from those who are poor today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u49	Your Honors are here! It is not surprising to learn today's criticism of some Court of Auditors. It is not surprising if we know a little more or if at least daily we are monitoring events within our country and, finally, events in connection with the last couple of years. That the Court of Auditors is one of the most negative elements as it was previously sang, of course it does not. The fact is that this song corresponds to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which corresponds to government policy. If we are aware of the recent proposed actions of the Court of Auditors, which were first exposed within our country, that is to say, it requires the Minister's resignation due to excessively planned revenues and excessively charged municipal charges by one of the Slovenian ministers. Then we don't have to think too much to know who doesn't like it. And whose political parties today and here speak so badly about a self-sustaining institution that carries out its tasks. As part of his opening presentation, the Secretary of State highlighted political hygiene. For, in my opinion, an integrated image of political hygiene, it is necessary to return three years ago. Three years ago, until the first activity of the current government by its attempts to abolish the so-called Kosovo Anti-Corruption Commission, which has proved positive in these three years. She warned and, within her powers, pointed to a small sea of corruption within our country. And the fact is that this commission was able to link most of these actions to the current government of the Republic of Slovenia or to individual ministries. Later on, I will touch on a number of cases where the so-called Kosovo Anti-Corruption Commission has repeatedly received criticism from those who have supported the Government from the very beginning and are willing to forget, not just the principle, to forget their origin in return for the flickering of shoulders or even, and I think, much more. At the beginning of this mandate, it began when three members of the Slovenian National Party: Mr Zmago Jelinčič, Mr Srečko Friend and Mr Bogdan Barovic tabled a new anti-corruption law that abolished Kosovo's anti-corruption commission. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the ruling Members have tabled a large number of amendments and the law has been drafted to the extent that, if adopted in full, then the so-called anti-corruption Kosovo Commission today and here would no longer be adopted in their original design. Since 2004, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has continued to plant metal under the feet of the anti-corruption commission. And what is Kosovo's anti-corruption commission? Under the law, it is supposed to be an independent body acting in terms of preventing corruption within our country. Is the legislative branch of power and has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia allowed this commission to work smoothly? The answer is no. The Commission has repeatedly been put under political pressure and, therefore, the Commission's actions are unlikely to have come to life to the extent that, within the framework of a normal country where the Government is not striving for its own right in the context of a corruption fight, the emphasis on 'its right' would, of course, be different. Since the beginning of 2005, however, the label attributed to the said Commission has been sufficiently clear by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, what this commission is, how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will take into account in its work and what the effects will be, the political effects of the said Commission. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, both the President of the Government and the Minister of Public Administration, have degraded the Commission in 2005 and continued to deteriorate in 2006, 2007, and not least this year, 2008. Degradation in the form of a toothless tiger. So, then, the first clear message was given to citizens and citizens about the non-necessary existence of a special single body dealing with the identification of corruption, clientism and money laundering. I want to say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with ruling political parties or parliamentary groups, and unfortunately also with some opposition parliamentary groups, has done everything in this period to destroy the credibility of the Commission. And again, it happens that moment, which is all too often linked within the framework of the work of Slovenian institutions. This means that they have to deal with themselves for most of their time by wiping out the stain that government lacquers or even government itself have given them and that they have to justify later. But that's the point, that's the real strategy, that's the real policy? In my opinion, no! This is, of course, one of the elements of agitation to take someone 24 hours a day, that they cannot do the work for which it was established and that it is attributed to different things. In its report on Slovenia, the OECD expressed concern about the Commission's announced dissolution in order to prevent corruption. During the discussion, to the extent possible, the public debate that took place during these three years within the Republic of Slovenia has led the entire professional public to beg us to leave the Anti-Corruption Commission. According to surveys carried out within the Member States of the European Union and beyond, Slovenia cannot be commended for the absence or small existence of corruption. Even the opposite. More and more, especially in the year of the current government, we are subject to such numbers, which are frightening. Some of the findings of that commission, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to abolish 1. 1. 2009, and today's act, of course, lays the groundwork for these abolitions. In connection with the Auto-Moto connection of Slovenia, Flycom is the largest company for the provision of Eles services, at least a clinical trial of the costs of public procurement, at least the largest state-owned business in connection with the purchase of Finnish armoured personnel. At the very least, the case of Inter-Europe, most notably the case of sponsoring the election campaign of the largest government party, possibly in connection with the Oncology Institute and today the already very touching name of the miracle boy Domna Zavrla, who has received more than EUR 250,000 for consulting, and who has been warned by the anti-corruption commission many more, but we can always draw the identification or link, the equation with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; let this equation go through the ownership of such companies, as I have previously stated two, whether the equation should be linked through friendship within the largest government party. So where is the political hygiene that the Secretary of State is trying to show us as part of his opening act? Is political hygiene in that someone who is legally engaged in the detection of corruption is trying to be disabled in his work at the very beginning? Identify him with a toothless tiger, throw him pollen under his feet, and then end him because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that it would be easier and better to carry him out the tasks to the Court of Auditors. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 1 / 1 1. 2009, as far as this government is concerned, of course, the current government will then indeed destroy Kosovo's anti-corruption commission and if the Court of Auditors will take over after that commission. If we look, I think it was three weeks ago, don't take my word for it, please, maybe a day more or less, the Court of Auditors called on the Prime Minister for irregularities found after the replacement of one of the ministers. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has, of course, given little joking response to the Court of Auditors to tell them what the legal basis is for this decision and whether they are even competent to determine the unjustifiable benefits paid by citizens and citizens, or, in a particular case, by the rules of Mariborčanka and Mariborčani, and whether the Court of Auditors can at all be allowed to draw attention to the errors of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In my opinion, I almost couldn't believe the Prime Minister's response, it was a mockery. And let's put ourselves in the skin or the period after 1. 1. 2009 when the Court of Auditors finds out, the case of corruption will prove what it will do if Janez Janša's current government continues to do so. She will make fun of all the findings of the Court of Auditors in the areas of clientelism, money laundering and corruption. And if this is the solution, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia advocates, as the Minister advocates, and not least, unfortunately, the Secretary of State today, then we can say with certainty only one thing: Slovenia will be open to domestic and foreign interference, which we can call clientelism and corruption. Instead of giving us all here today a clear signal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so that it cannot play with our country and reject the proposal for an act that they offer us for admission and thus clearly predict that we still believe in the separation of the constitution in that part that speaks of the executive, legislative and judicial branches of government. And why do we believe in separation? Because then we believe in the fight against clientism and corruption. However, if you allow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to accept all this under the auspices of one house, government cabinet, ladies and ladies, I do not know who can speak of political hygiene. The move by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, no matter what, I do not believe that any of us is so naive that it will believe that this act is merely and only followed by the Constitutional Court, this, we all know, cannot be believed. This act follows only the consequences of the characteristics of an individual that can be linked to rematching. And, unfortunately, our Prime Minister of the Government is a remarkable rematcher. And not because of the dispute between the two individuals to abolish an institution that has been dissolved over the past three years, despite the fact that it has been reprimanded over and over again, despite the fact that it has been threatened with being dissolved every month, to abolish these institutions, which are doing some work. And if we agree to this government theory or government desire, after the abolition of this institution, namely the Kosovo Anti-Corruption Commission, then we will only meet from day to day with measures that are now very topical, unfortunately, and in the long term extremely, even in the medium term, ineffective without a judicial epilogue. We will not support the idea of abolishing the anti-corruption commission in the unconnected Members' Group of Members of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Even though we have spoken more about the existing anti-corruption commission than the law itself, especially from the position of patronage and protection, I will try to limit myself as much as possible to the content of the law and to give the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, which supports the proposed law, as it is prepared in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, which has found that some provisions of the Act on the incompatibility of the exercise of public functions with a viable activity contrary to the Constitution. He thus established something in violation of the Constitution. That is why we are now considering a law that follows the findings of the Constitutional Court. This is a law which, contrary to the previous laws of the Group of Social Democrats, is actually followed by the intention of the Constitutional Court. In the first half of the current term of office, the National Assembly adopted a new law on the incompatibility of functions, which I mentioned earlier, which replaced the current law on the prevention of corruption, but the Constitutional Court, as it said, found that something had been established by this law contrary to the Constitution. Not the whole law, but just a few things, so the Council of State ordered that this inappropriate provision should be amended. The Government has therefore drawn up a new law on restrictions and prohibitions for public function holders, which makes it more clear that the restrictions on officials in their work and the incompatibilities of their function with a gainful activity. Moreover, more precisely, the obligations of the officials to report information on their assets and sanctions in cases of non-compliance with their obligations under this Act are laid down. The role of the Anti-Corruption Commission so far will be assumed by the Court of Auditors, and to a lesser extent by the State, provincial and municipal electoral commissions, the Council of Justice, the Council of State and other bodies responsible for the appointment of officials. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we expect that, with these amendments, it will determine less doubts and different interpretations of the laws than before and that each body will only perform the work for which it is responsible on the basis of unequivocal legal provisions. Indeed, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption under the Anti-Corruption Act, despite its name in the law currently in force, does not in fact have a legal basis for combating corruption or for the direct prevention of corruption. The law gives it competence to determine the incompatibilities of functions, to collect property and also some other information about officials, their gifts and the like. However, there are currently no enforcement functions that would measure the effective fight or prevention of corruption. It is therefore true, and it is also justified, that we sometimes talk about a commission or institution that does not have teeth in order to effectively fight what this commission carries on its behalf. The most important novelty of the proposed law is, in determining the powers of control over public functions conferred on: control of the prohibitions and restrictions on the acceptance of gifts, the declaration of property status and the prohibition of business, i.e. this function, this part of the jurisdiction is transferred to the Court of Auditors. However, in order to control the incompatibility of functions and other gainful activities, the competent national electoral commission, the municipal electoral commission, including the provincial commission, will be responsible for the appointment of an individual official, as mentioned earlier. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party estimate that the Court of Auditors has a significantly higher professional and moral authority in resolving those issues related to the area of control of the prohibitions and restrictions on the reception of gifts, the wealth situation of officials and the operating bans, as is now the case with the current Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which has repeatedly resorted to very flat-rate assessments, which have repeatedly referred to political qualifications. Despite the fact that, as has already been said in the Court of Auditors, we can also comment on their individual decisions, but, if we look at the whole and compare both institutions, we can probably all say with certainty which one who enjoys a somewhat greater reputation to be more independent, more professional and so on. As for the Commission, which we have discussed most today, namely the existing Anti-Corruption Commission, it could pose a lot of problems, a lot of questionable behaviour, and I would point out one in particular. That is, when this Commission used very much the legal institute of principled opinions, which the Commission, as you all know, has often served and has abused many times in our opinion. The main opinion should not refer to a specific case, be an analysis or an investigation of a particular case, and in particular, the principle opinion should not be based on who the Commission considered in the main opinion. As we all know, these principled opinions actually addressed concrete events and concrete people and even for accounting, I will say political accounting with concrete people. In these cases, therefore, it was an exclusive abuse of the competence of the Commission. The new law will deal with matter, as has already been said, more transparently, professionally and even more independently, so we do not see any objections to the law under consideration. However, so that no one, like many times before, but also today, would talk about us adopting the law just to replace the chairman of the Kosovo Commission. This is opposed to the fact that the Court of Auditors and other bodies that will take over the Commission's competence under this law will only take over the current composition of the National Assembly once the terms of office have expired. And that is contrary to what opponents want to say. If the replacement of the President of the Commission were the sole purpose of the proposers, although in our view it would be better if this committee were led by another person who would be more professionally qualified, who would act more professionally and who would be more independent than the current President of this Commission. For, as I mentioned earlier, we can tell him, in view of his work so far, the conduct that raised great doubts about his independence, and he often resorted to very thin ice politics. Well, and if this were to be true, as some have pointed out, that the Government and the ruling coalition were merely to replace the Commission and, in particular, to replace its President, then, by means of a transitional provision in this Act, the delegation of powers from the Commission to the Court of Auditors and other bodies would be implemented immediately, by the adoption of the law or within 8 days of the publication of the Official Journal, and not only by the expiry of the mandate of this National Assembly, or even by a very complicated procedure of discharge of the President. And that didn't happen, but it's a systemic change. This is a systemic change that improves the situation, as I mentioned earlier. We reject all such and similar speculations in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Now, to begin with, I have to remind the specialist of the jurist somehow that the Republican Election Commission did not appoint me to the National Assembly, but, of course, I have been elected by the electorate and the electorate, even though it will now oversee this wealth situation of mine. By not appointing me, and I think the same applies to municipal officials who are in municipal councils, not appointed by the municipal electoral commission. And there are two other issues that follow from the introduction and are only today clear, including in these introductory presentations by the parliamentary groups. Only today did I find that this law follows two strategic directions. First, it is the decentralisation of corruption and clienteleism, which has been presented in some way today by the Government in the introduction. And the second is that it is some kind of repetition of the story, as mentioned, of ethical standards, it is an ethical code. Remember, three and a half years ago, the government adopted this code of ethics, but respect for this code of ethics is not a big deal on the part of those who have signed it. But I'm going to say a little bit more about this later in these opening words. In short, in the Group of Social Democrats we do not support the proposal for a law on restrictions and prohibitions on public function holders, because we simply go back to a period when we had a similar solution, it lasted 12 years and proved completely ineffective. The negative position of the Group is also based on a simple reason, since the regulation of the system of self-control at all levels is for more than 5,000 officials or holders of public sand functions in the eyes with regard to the fight against clientism and corruption. It is true that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not specifically refer to anti-corruption activities. It is also true that the very requirement to prevent corruption stems from the rule of law, which is explicitly stated in the Constitution. And it is also true that the effects of the fight against growing corruption and customerism in Slovenia are not only measured by epilogues in front of courts, where there is not yet any excessive positive statistics, but can also be measured by the effects of preventive action. And this part of the strategy, the preventive action in the suppression of corruption, is to end and remain only on repressive effects. Even within these measurable effects, repressive where they play an important and responsible role for this, the competent national authorities, which are, in their essence, professional and independent or should be, are often not in Slovenian practice, because they are still dependent on the executive power of each time. We have the opportunity to see the illustration and the evidence in recent weeks when these organs are trying to create and change things. At least the impression is positive. And once again, politics is the kind of policy that goes where it doesn't need to, or where it shouldn't get involved at all. To say that the results of these activities by state authorities, in the fight against clientism and corruption and economic crime, will depend on the conduct of the largest parliamentary party in the future, but it is only too much. For it is more than clear that current thievery, as he repeatedly calls it, are in the past named by the President of the Government, mixed individuals from or near the largest party. Such a situation arises only when there is a huge link between the holders of public functions and the political functions of the executive, administration and supervisory councils, in particular state-owned enterprises and those private undertakings owned by sympathizers or members of the parties in power. Of course, to the most remarkable extent, the biggest customer. Therefore, it must also be said on this occasion that customerism and corruption have been on the rise in recent years. They have grown even more and seriously jeopardize the rule of law in Slovenia and undermine people's trust in key state institutions. Last but not least, this was written by the motioner himself, in a slightly different way. And these are, of course, the consequences of the two-year effort of the ruling suit to install personnel tsunami at all times and levels of the social, economic and administrative system. And in this context, it is necessary to look at and assess the abolition of an independent, professional and independent anti-corruption commission and not just its President and the establishment of self-monitoring of public function holders. In short, the executive branch simply adopted all the levers of the fight against corruption through this bill, although research and practice, on the other hand, demonstrate that it is the executive branch and the administrative apparatus that is potentially the most vulnerable to these incompetences and thievery under its tactics. We are also skeptical in the Group of Social Democrats that the attitude towards certain bodies, such as the Court of Auditors, has already been said much today, which under this law acquires certain important powers, such as the current attitude towards the anti-corruption commission, the so-called Kosovo Commission. It is therefore an institution in the Court of Auditors, which is also given great importance by the proposer of this law and is expected to play an important role in the enforcement of the law as an independent and professional institution. The Government itself wrote down, quote: "The Law on the Court of Auditors stipulates that the acts by which it exercises its audit powers are not admissible to challenge before the courts or other state authorities." End of quote. You have written this down in explanation of this bill. And in the case of the Environment Ministry, the Court of Auditors issued an act and also proposed sanctions. And how did the government or the president of the government react? With a cynical statement that in history he does not know the case for the Court of Auditors to dismiss the ministers of the Government. So is this and such a relationship a guarantee that, even in cases of decisions of the Court of Auditors in relation to this law that we are considering today, it will be different, more correct and taken into account? I'd say "a little bit of morgen" if my mom was here today for this pay phone. A similar cynicism and sarcasm has also written a letter from the Ministry of Public Administration to Mr Miloš Marshall, who has expressed his position on the proposal for legal solutions in the field of restrictions and prohibitions on public office holders, which, of course, is not entirely written on the skin of the government proposal of this law. In short, these two cases already show the law itself that it is a project to dismantle the current one, just a little more than a two-year attempt to establish more effective anti-corruption and clientism mechanisms. So these attempts are obviously a great thorn in the heel of all those who are trying to continue to function in completely muddy water. Therefore, we will not support this bill in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u55	Mr President! Dear colleague and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry. In fact, I find it embarrassing to talk about such a confused and bad marriage in the National Assembly. A law like that would belong in a different place. More fun. Where someone can be, let's say, more eloquently insulted. Here, however, is the National Assembly and some matters must still be silenced or at least chosen in a different way than a proposal for a law. If we go all the way from the beginning. Actually, I have to say, I'm a magician. Roman rap didn't convince him of what he wanted to talk about. In fact, non-lingual signs and body language spoke of the fact that he himself did not believe what he was saying. And I believe a man who, of course, has some kind of education, who is an intellectual, who, of course, is also intelligent, can't believe such nonsense. On the other hand, it is another historical issue, a historical breakthrough, namely, the bill's proponent is revitalizing the so-called so-called, and several times the obsessive continuity in the National Assembly, as it revives the spirit of the so-called Property Commissions or what has happened lately. At that time, local February A - they went after the citizens, B - and they were exposed to who had a bigger hen, who got some kind of beam after some kind of relationship and so on. This control, which comes from the proposal of the new law, is now scattered on, so over the finger, some 300 institutions, which will naturally have very different views on those who will watch, monitor, investigate. On the other hand, in this bill, what we are actually listening to from, say, the beginning of 2005, is what it would be like to abolish Kosovo's commission to speak briefly. At first, after six months, it had not been working, and that was about what it looked like. Then it became clear that the toothless tiger, of course, had not been given a tooth, nor did it have to be. This is a commission dealing with the prevention of corruption, not with punishment and hunting, for which we have other institutions. This is connected to what I asked the Prime Minister yesterday, is everyone the same before the government? No, they're not. They're not in that respect, not in that one. After all, if we look at who has already been removed from various functions. One is because he has misrepresented jokes or because he does not know them, others, of course, who have done worse things or done things that are illegal, but they are preserved because of a lack of time. The proposal for a law before us breaks the current comprehensive regime and regulates only restrictions on the incompatibilities of business, the adoption of gifts, the area of asset reporting. With regard to the implementation of a relatively short regulation, irrespective of their original competences, it then imposes on a number of different bodies, the Constitutional Court, the electoral commissions which are, we know how they are composed, and we know how they leave such matters, the seals in these bodies are very weak, and then they can be abused if they are not abused, but at least used in any pre-election campaign. It is said that a number of organs will be burdened, although all or most of them are already talking about how they are humanely fed, how they are also materially fed, how their working conditions are not right. Now they're gonna have to deal with as much as possible. This is telling us in advance what the work of these organs will be like, because now we no longer have just one, we have no success. Many of these authorities, in fact, now you can do statistics, consist of officials, politicians and non-experts for the field, which can and will certainly lead to, so it was once before, when we had similar bodies, to the application of different standards of incompetence, volunteerism, feelings, greater or less sensitivity for any thing and so on, not only that these authorities will not be toothless tigers, but even jaws will not have, maybe they will give a voice if they hope or not. If we were really talking about some political hygiene, then, at this point, the Government, for example, Draga Kosa and the Anti-Corruption Commission, should reward it, not so perfidically, not now, but later, this is also related to the fact that it will still have to be notified to the United Nations organisation which the Commission is carrying out with us, and once again this is the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which is known and also appreciated in the world, has high marks, and later, when we have decided to do so, we will be doing so in our own way. We have also heard how Mr Drago Kos is dependent, I do not know what he depends on, whether on mushrooms or cocaine, or whether he is a eel or a leaf, but how much I know him and how much I have worked with him and, of course, those who have talked about it know that they are doing their work professionally, precisely, clearly and also transparently. True, though, what things the law requires and certainly for those who need to report on their wealth are not pleasant. In the Liberal Democracy, because of all of this, and also because the Public Sector Integrity Act, which has dealt with these matters in a much better way, has been rejected, we have decided that we will not support this law in any way and we will try in every way to ensure that the law does not enter into force, especially because the title of this law is "the law to facilitate corruption and data abuse". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Zupan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u57	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues! In recent times, corruption has become a word that has once again become almost an integral part of our everyday life. We probably agree, however, that corruption is a serious threat to the rule of law and the biggest obstacle to development change. In the New Slovenia Group, we have always advocated such a regulation of legislation that would enable the detection of corruption and the effective management of procedures. At the time of the adoption of the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, we had concerns. As we know, the Constitutional Court has suspended the implementation of the adopted law and ordered the Government to draw up a law within six months which would regulate this area in accordance with a constitutional judgment. It seems important to us that in our country we provide independent and autonomous control over the occurrence of corruption or an independent anti-corruption body. The current Anti-Corruption Commission has no more important levers, but a more preventive function in the form of giving principled opinions and explanations. Any suspected corruption can only be transmitted to the competent authorities. The 2006 report on its work, which we discussed recently in the National Assembly, nevertheless, we must admit that it has a role to play. The proposal for a law on restrictions and prohibitions for holders of public functions, proposed by the Government, takes into account the decision of the Constitutional Court and follows the principle of the division of power, transparency and openness. Prior to the Constitutional Court's decision, the powers of control over public functions were concentrated on the Court of Justice in the Council of Justice and on other public officials in the National Assembly, which was intended to jeopardise the system of brakes and balance, which was the basis of democratic regulation. The proposal foresees that the power to control public functions in different branches of government, after a certain transitional period, would be transferred on the one hand to the Court of Auditors, which has an independent and independent position in the system of State authorities, to exercise control over the prohibitions and restrictions on the acceptance of gifts, the application of the assets of officials and the prohibition of business. On the other hand, to the authorities responsible for appointing officers, to the State Election Commission, the Municipal and Regional Election Commission, the Council of Justice, the State Prosecutor's Council, to control the incompatibility of functions and other gainful activities. Certainly, in the fight against corruption, the recently ratified United Nations Convention against Corruption is also of paramount importance, which is a step forward in efforts to take a more serious approach to suppressing this scourge of modern society. However, it seems important that, in particular, every time the current authority respects the laws and institutions, as it sets the best example for citizens and shows that the rules of political hygiene are clear and apply to all. Members of New Slovenia will support the proposal according to our opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Joseph Bajc, on behalf of the SLS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representative of the Ministry or Government, distinguished colleague and colleague! I'm sure most of the people you've discussed so far didn't even know what you were discussing. But I'll make it concrete. The Kosovo commission was suspended by this National Assembly at its meeting of 13. 4. 2006, on the basis of a law which had three articles and which had been tabled by the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group and which was then supplemented by the coalition - without my vote and by some of the coalition - and had several articles. This law was subject to a request for constitutional review and the Constitutional Court suspended the implementation of this law until the final decision. It took its final decision 29. 3. 2007 and said that the provision of Article 3 of this Law was inconsistent with the Constitution and subsequently repealed certain paragraphs 3 of Article 3. But the point of the Constitutional Court's decision is, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is in its decision of 29. 3. In 2007 it decided that, contrary to the principle of the division of power, there are arrangements that concentrate the powers of control over public functions in all branches of government other than the courts. What did the State Court say about that? That a colleague from a parliamentary group who introduced that law in 2006 cannot run this commission is said to be unable to control a representative or a member of this National Assembly. Not in a statement or in an explanatory statement, however, the Constitutional Court did not make a provision that we, so-called, I see neither in the previous law nor in this law that it is a Kosovo commission, but it has its own name but we all have it under that name. And before the definition of the Group of Members, let me say one more thing. Article 27 of the proposed law states: "As from the date of the entry into force of this law, the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, Official Gazette 20/06 shall cease to apply." This is said to be the repeal of the law that has already abolished Kosovo's commission, if we are already talking about the Kosovo Commission and we are not talking about it, I will say, about the monitoring commission and so on. Now to the written opinion that I made, but when I listened to this debate, I went to write some things out. [[...]] Having an independent authority to control the assets of officials and corruption or to maintain a system that was introduced in the 1990s, when the country was born, with the new law of April 2006, is a dilemma and we met it in a parliamentary group when we discussed a proposal for a law that I mentioned earlier and with which we have already abolished the Kosovo Commission. There are many arguments that speak in favour of both solutions. Above all, it is important to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place to monitor and prevent any abuse of public function and incompatibilities in the performance of public functions with other activities and to enable the detection and prevention of possible corruption. While our Constitution does not specifically speak of anti-corruption, the demand for convincing corruption stems from the rule of law, and I think we all agree on it. Corruption threatens the rule of law and undermines people's confidence in key state institutions, reduces political stability and certainly social peace. With regard to the current law, there are a large number of different opinions, so it is good to have a new regime in this area, and I hope that you will all agree. Experts advocate various solutions. The Council of Justice has not delivered its opinion. The municipalities generally agree with the amendment proposal; the arrangements in European countries are very different. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have decided that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will decide in this law, according to the presentations themselves, as well as the explanations, at today's meeting. In the parliamentary group, it seems most important that we put an end to this nonsense, which he pointed out among the first of our fellow Members in the parliamentary group, with his parliamentary question about the elimination of nonsense and the provisions on the registration of property for municipal officials, in particular, the municipal councillors who were affected by the introduction of the new law in 2006. The law that we are considering is also prepared to comply with the Constitutional Court decision, which I repeat, 29. 3. In 2007 it decided that, contrary to the principle of the division of power and not by the abolition or non-refoulement of the Kosovo Commission, there is an arrangement which concentrates the powers of control of public officials in all branches of government, except the courts. It considered that the excessive power threatened the balance between the branches of government and I think we all agree that there is no way to oppose it. The proposer of the law shall give the supervisory function to the authorities which are otherwise responsible for the appointment of officials. The competence of such a solution can indeed be questioned, since it can be agreed that membership, for example in the National Election Commission or in the Municipal Election Commission, is not comparable or inappropriate according to the expertise of the composition. The competence of the electoral commission to exercise such control from only the local environment under which the municipal electoral commission operates may also be questioned. In the opinion of the Group, it is also necessary to lay down Article 2 of the proposal, where it is not clear whether the law will also cover the directors of municipal administrations. Nor does the proposal for a law contain the possibility of exceptions to the restrictions on public procurement rules, as is the case with the Anti-Corruption Act. In order to prevent corruption, the Commission was able to allow contracting entities operating under public procurement rules to do business with business entities if it found that the official could not influence the decision to award a public contract. In smaller municipalities, this could lead to more expensive bids being made or services not being made at the right time because there would be no suitable provider in the area, such as snow climbing in wintertime. However, if we accepted an offer through an intermediary, it would be provided for formal reasons, but it would still be an abuse of the law. Article 14 of the Act under consideration, which deals with the prohibition of business, does not provide for exceptions. The dictation of the Article relating to the provisions serving as the contracting authority should only apply to those having an influence on the management or decision-making of the choice. Many congregations are subject to low - value public contracts, so the law could set a limit on exceptions. The practice of small municipalities shows that the domestic provider is generally the cheapest but also offers the cheapest service. Therefore, the proposal for a law should contain the amount of appropriations allowed and the conditions for an exemption. It also raises the question, at least in the parliamentary group, whether the Court of Auditors will do quantitatively and qualitatively everything that is imposed and transferred to it by amendment or new law. Some Members of the parliamentary group will support the bill's proposal for further consideration in the hope that, in the second reading, we will harmonise the above-mentioned dilemmas and propose more appropriate solutions, than those in the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Davorin Terčon has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Centre for Public Opinion Research presented the results of the 2007 survey on corruption in a press conference of the Commission on the Prevention of Corruption yesterday. That corruption, compared to the period before 1990 in Slovenia today, has slightly increased in the opinion of 25.1% of respondents, and 36.6% of respondents. Unlike in 2006, about 10% of the population believed that corruption had increased significantly in 2007. Approximately 5% of those surveyed felt that it had grown slightly or remained at the same level. According to the survey, most media and the Commission contribute to the fight against corruption. Most respondents also advocate the continuation of the commission. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we are really opposed to the Government's efforts to abolish the Commission in order to prevent corruption. According to the proposal of the most recent government law, the Commission is scheduled to operate only until 1 January 2009. The Anti-Corruption Commission was established by the Anti-Corruption Act adopted in December 2004 by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In his work, he was appointed a commission, which was named 19th. 4. 2004, one member was subsequently appointed 22 Seven. 2004, started on 1 October 2004. The Commission started its work only after the Rules of Procedure were adopted on its work, before which many anti-corruption tasks were carried out by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent corruption. Given that the mandate of the President, the Vice-President and the members of the Commission for six years, without the possibility of reappointment, the Commission should end its mandate at the end of 2010. In order to shorten the Commission's mandate, the Government did not state any reasonable and justified reasons, except that we are always aware that it wants to end the disturbing commission for it as soon as possible. In shortening the Commission's mandate, however, it is even clearer that the rationality and austerity cited by the Government as the reason for the Commission's suspension for anti-corruption for several years has been empty of excuses, which have now been confirmed by the planned spending of budgetary resources on new budgetary users. The most recent government law on restrictions and prohibitions for public function holders provides that the control of the incompatibility of functions will be taken over by hundreds of bodies: 210 municipal, judicial and state-level councils, the National Assembly, the Court of Auditors and others. Concern about the termination of the Commission's anti-corruption proposal for the Law on Prohibitions and Restrictions for Public Functioning Operators was also expressed by the International Anti-Corruption Organisation Transparency International. According to the organisation, the Commission plays an important role in the fight against corruption. The termination of the Commission would, according to the organisation, have a negative impact on other governments facing legitimate requirements for the provision of independent anti-corruption bodies. If the government goes in the opposite direction and the commission is abolished, then the question will be asked whether Slovenia can represent the European Union, since the European Union considers corruption to be a serious crime, the organisation notes in a letter addressed to Minister Virant. In the Group of Members, we really oppose the resolution of the bill because we believe that it is not appropriate and that the Court of Auditors is not an authority which, without the necessary powers, could carry out the fight against corruption in its entirety. The solutions presented will not provide for independent, autonomous and adequate control over the incompatibilities of the performance of public functions with profitable activities and preventive action in the fight against corruption. It appears that Minister Virant is also not thinking about introducing other measures in the law, to combat patronage, clientism and nepotism, and other corruption that we have witnessed in recent times. Given that the Minister has consistently challenged the competence and role of the Commission in preventing corruption, you do not know such solutions in the countries of old Europe. Otherwise, his claims have been repeatedly denied, and we are presented with a miracle solution, since such a way of fighting corruption, fragmentation of control and self-control, the absence of preventive action, the mixing of powers of authorities and others, they do not know either in old Europe or in the rest of the world. Despite the opposition to these solutions, we remind the Government of completely exclusive content. That is why we are asked what the government's anti-corruption strategy is. In doing so, we are not referring to the functioning of law enforcement agencies, that is, the police and the prosecution, or the prosecution. Whether inventive solutions are the result of the Government’s lack of answers to how to prevent corruption. To conclude, let us point out that the other state authorities, which are supposed to carry out the tasks under this law, also question the appropriateness of the solutions. For example, the Council of State doubts that the Court of Auditors would be able to carry out all that is transferred by law from the Anti-Corruption Commission, that it is not qualified for the performance of its duties under this Act, nor is it the latter in its functions or in view of the constitutional situation, is the Court of Auditors and could still be listed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. The Director, on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u63	Dear President! Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware that corruption, nepotism and clientism are a very pressing problem of Slovenian society. The effectiveness of prevention, control and repression of these, the rule of law of dangerous phenomena, depends primarily on the true and firm political will of all of us today, who are considering another law on this subject. We want to support efforts to create a less corruptly coloured environment. There are still no good results, even though there is a light at the end of the tunnel. Consciousness of the urgency of the fight against corruption is increasingly strong, but we are only resorting to attacks that force us in the opposite direction. The political will wanes between beautiful words and ugly acts in the sense of abolishing the independent anti-corruption commission, which we still have and do well. The position of DeSUS Members with regard to the law in question is rebuffed because, in the absence of urgent provisions, the applicant imposes inappropriate and poor solutions, all with a view to eliminating the "so-called" Kosovo Commission as soon as possible, while at the same time, the already overburdened Court of Auditors places its obligations solely for office work, management and collection of data on the assets of officials. This solution is understood as deliberately blocking the work of the Court of Auditors in other, significantly more extensive consequences of corruption or public financial control. In this context, our Group opposes the additional burden on the Court of Auditors by further work already being done by an independent commission. While the Court of Auditors is a state authority that enjoys legal independence and independence in relation to other state institutions, there is no doubt that, as such, it could correctly ensure the purpose of anti-corruption legislation, but we do not think that this is necessary. More questionable or ambiguous, however, is the control over the incompatibilities of the performance of a public function conceived as internal control, i.e. the control of the body by its appointed official. Although the proposal for a new whole law remains within the substantive framework of the Constitutional Court decision, the solutions themselves are part of the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity or similar to what we have seen already in the field of a distorted law on integrity in the public sector. In this proposal, apart from transferring the powers of an independent commission to prevent corruption to several new subsidiaries and commissions, there is nothing revolutionary, nothing that would actually contribute more effectively to anti-corruption. The proposal of this Act undermines the task of the current commission to individual bodies, which can significantly weaken efforts to eliminate or at least reduce the extent of corruption. We are also convinced that such an arrangement would not only be irrational but also too expensive. According to our assessment, the proposal also lacks other measures to contribute to a more successful suppression of corruption, such as systemic analytical, coordination and advisory education tasks. What is also essential in this area is the absence of a system of protection against the bullying of corruption applicants. The communication of the recent report on the Commission's work on anti-corruption was clear. Anti-corruption culture in our country is improving; otherwise gradually, progress is visible. The merit of this must be attributed to the existing Commission, which, despite its precarious fate and competences, is working decisively in the area of prevention and pre-repressive corruption. Members of the DeSUS have already persisted in the position that it is reasonable to establish such legal bases through which the anti-corruption body can work so effectively that it is satisfied with the objective of democraticism of our system and the rule of law. It needs to ensure the status of independence, independence and apoliticalism, professional and financial satisfactory support, and in particular it needs to be given all the necessary powers to prevent, detect and combat corruption even more effectively. Its role should also be natural in the light of public awareness of the problems and consequences of corruption in general. We therefore estimate that it would be good for all existing powers to be strengthened and focused on one body, namely an independent anti-corruption commission, which must play a central role in the anti-corruption fight, of course in the framework of urgent cooperation with all other individual bodies which are also given powers under other rules to act in this area. Last but not least, we believe that the proposal of this law is another shameful act of much of our power during the Presidency of the European Union, and what part we have today in the house and in the fight against corruption is certainly not expected of us. It follows from this that the proposed law does not meet our expectations, which we are cultivating in this regard and which we will also insist on in the future. That is why we do not favor the law with such content, and we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u64	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The law, which speaks of restrictions and prohibitions for the holder of public functions, which I am currently alone, of course I cannot oppose such a law. Which would seem like I don't support restrictions, as if I don't support transparency, as if I don't support the division of power and openness, and as if I'm not in favour of limiting corruption, which is of course - we know that the opportunity to work for a thief - and, of course, for public officials, this is certainly one of the temptations that can occur in everyday work. However, I must say that I am assessing that the content of this law in terms of combating corruption, although we know that it is not directly the only instrument to help eradicate corruption, in my opinion it washes the face and leaves the question of how the body is. In fact, I think it goes into detail on certain matters that I think are even overestimated. Limiting the financial value of gifts - okay. There's got to be a border somewhere. However, I think the problem here is how we are going to do this in concrete terms. Then I am asked why and in what position will those officials involved in the procurement or operation of entities where the institution's rights or capital do not exceed 5%. I think it would be necessary to think about some absolute number, some maximum absolute number. 5% in a particular company or in a particular business can mean very little at times, but sometimes it can be very large. Then, of course, the question is whether it is fair for gainful activities to be concluded a fifth of full-time work with the employer's consent, but it is not necessary for certain activities which can be very much, I will say, widely understood. For example, scientific research, artistic, cultural and publicist activities, pedagogical activities. I know that the practice of quite a lot of officials from our National Assembly also preserves a professor's career - where they are. It does not seem right to me that they do not need to obtain consent, because if the matter is not disputed, the employer will give his consent. I do not think that this is an adjustment to the approach to all professions, and here the professions of officials are differentiated and in some way the selection is made, who will have greater benefits than the official if they run for a position, who will have less benefits as an official if they run for a position. I think that from the point of view, I will say, a basic democratic approach can be a questionable principle. I am asking a question related to corruption, because the purpose of this law is certainly also to prosecute corruption, is the work of other bodies in charge of official duties and are paid to pursue corruption professionally and must also keep an eye on what we are doing by officials. Well, I have to mention that - the work of the state prosecutor's office, with which, I have to say, I'm not too pleased. Citizens are turning to us, Members and protesting because they are making various proposals for criminal charges, where, I will say, the evidence is incontrovertible after a laity assessment, but the state prosecutors are refusing, nor are they requiring additional activities, where additional evidence would be sought to obtain that prosecution against an official who is clearly, I will say, exploiting his cause, his function, nor does he start or try to prove by procedure that such an official is innocent. I think the State's Attorney's office has an extremely important role and weight here. I agree with the distribution of control from individual types of officials to theirs, I will say, those bodies that have direct contact with it and that can most effectively control them. However, the question raised here is once again, as mentioned earlier: how independent these bodies are. There is no one entirely independent in this country, we can be clear. They are purely independent, or we are just citizens. The corruption commission, which is so much to talk about, must also be paid from the state budget and this is also some kind of dependence at the final stage. But I do have a question here at the local level. The municipal electoral commission, I know this is the best choice at this time, but I think that this function should be performed by the supervisory committees or the supervisory councils of the municipalities which should be plurally composed. We know that there are not many representatives of the opposition at local level in these bodies, it is said, that surveillance is only on paper, but it is not. For example, I would suggest that further consideration be given to if it is possible to change this dictatorship in some way, but of course I know that this also means a change to some other legislation. Therefore, I know that this law can trigger a change of some other legislation that would have some synergy and would actually be more effective in preventing corruption of public officials. Alone, as I said, I will support the law, because I think the intention is right, trying to set clearer criteria, more transparent criteria. However, as I said, only with the details of such a law can we very effectively cut down on the field of anti-corruption by public officials. It would be very much for himself to consider those provisions which in some way differentiate public officials from one another, given that we are all public officials, regardless of the specific service, from this point of view in the same situation, we should be able to be treated on the same criteria. Like I said, maybe we should think about some changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Chairman. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When I listen to all this discussion by the proposers of individual parties and when I see in myself this history of this commission, the so-called Kosovo Commission, which we have abolished, and all that has been happening lately in Slovenia, when the government finally decided to give more clear control in the economic area of any such and other irregularities, we are certainly not going to have this thesis together, today's debate on this law, when we will disperse the public sector and the officials a little bit, as if it were a body in which we do not see any major problems from this place. In my opinion, this proposed law is not the optimal solution, it is not the solution that could be proud of both the Government and the National Assembly, that it replaces the so-called Kosovo Commission and that we will be optimal in doing so. My personal opinion here is a little different. I'm afraid it's not the happiest form of rescue. Let's leave the Court of Auditors to which I have great respect. It would be difficult to say, however, that a municipal commission can be a credible body at local level because I know how they are delegated to this composition, who these people are, what their expertise, abilities and so on are. And it is hard to imagine this model at local level how this will work in terms of what it is doing now, in fact, the so-called Kosovo Commission. I would really need thorough answers to these questions and how the proposer imagines that this matter will be effective, successful; it is good that it will be independent; it is difficult to discuss this because it will certainly not be. And I think it would be right to get a little clearer on the proposaler's intentions, as he imagines. Corruption is a serious problem in Slovenia, there is no doubt about it. I think that we are all here discussing in this spirit that we need it, and also experience in Europe shows that such a commission is necessary. Of course, whether the problem of this Commission was primarily its work, or the president, or the content of the work, or the priority of the work, or whether the Commission dealt mainly with those things which seemed to me to be unpriority. With regard to the compatibility of mayors, principals, municipal councillors, these, those, in this, it seems to me that too much energy has been invested in this part, and very little in the part of how some officials have filled their personal accounts. But it was not enough done here, and I agree with that. But now, if the problem is in these people or in this content, then we should define some things here more, how and how. I know this is not an easy matter, and I don't have a formula to show, but this would be the optimal solution for most Members of the National Assembly. That is why I think the proposaler has probably studied things, but after what I see, it is not the best thing for this model to be able to make an excellent replacement for the so-called Kosovo Commission now and that it will be significantly more successful than this one, which is in fact now no longer, only formally carrying out its mission. So I'm pretty skeptical here, and I don't have clear support, and maybe I'll get it at the end of the debate, but I'm afraid not, and I'm going to have a hard time supporting such a law that doesn't bring what the Government, Members, Parliament, as such we're going to be trying to get such an organ, such a commission that will also work more successfully in this area than it is. This must convince me - that it will be more successful than the one who is formally still carrying out his mission. That doesn't convince me. So in the spirit of today's debate, I will see for myself what to do, and then in the context of the second reading, if there are any amendments in terms of complementing this part of the proposed law and improving the system, I will also decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to point out that obviously the Government has not yet given up on its intention, which, although it has shown through a parliamentary group, already at the beginning of this mandate, that it wants to abolish the Kosovo Commission. In doing so, you have often or have often used the wording that Kosovo is ineffective because it is essentially a toothless tiger, but after the government has not deviated from its intention to abolish Kosovo, it is obvious that this Kosovo Commission has been very effective and perhaps even too effective for whom. Now, the manipulation that we are witnessing here today is that the proposer of this task and the role that the Kosovo Commission has had to spread to different levels, to different authorities, I have nothing to add here to what my predecessor has just said. Of course, it is not possible to expect a municipal commission to perform this task in such a way that it is truly effective. And then these tasks spread to different levels. It is envisaged that at the provincial level this is a provincial commission, and here at the state level this role is given to the Court of Auditors - which is of course very interesting. It is also interesting because yesterday the President of the Government told us here that the Court of Auditors does not actually have the role it holds when it asks the President of the Government to propose the discharge of a specific minister. Today, with this proposal, or the Government wants to add a role and role to the Court of Auditors, which it does not actually have. According to our constitution, it is very clear what the Court of Auditors is doing, and says the Constitution: "The Court of Auditors is the highest authority for the control of state accounts, state budget and total public expenditure." But under this law, the Court of Auditors would be given an additional task that I do not really see under this constitutional provision. And I find this somewhat controversial, despite the fact that, as the comparison is stated, Austria, where the Court of Auditors also exercises this control over the incompatibilities of the functions of individual officials. So that I think it's again some big manipulation and insistence on something that is then also, as proposed in this law, controversial. And what's interesting is this question that I didn't hear the answer to. We just ratified the United Nations Convention against Corruption a few weeks ago. It states that any country which has ratified this Convention must notify the UN Secretary-General, who will be that independent and independent body in the country that will coordinate the anti-corruption strategy. I am very interested in which authority the Government will inform the UN Secretary-General that it is the one who is carrying out this coordination and which is an independent and independent body, as required under the UN Convention. Obviously, even here the government does not give or proposer a clear answer, and I am explaining this to myself again, allowing for a gray field, a space of manoeuvre, where it will obviously manipulate matters. And I really don't see why we can't let this Kosovo Commission continue to work because it obviously works well. And there is another problem with these now, through the newly dispersed bodies, which are supposed to do this control at different levels. In fact, we know how the Kosovo Commission, the members of this commission appoint or vote that the role of the National Assembly, which has elected this commission, is formed here by these Commissions at lower levels, which should be added to this role, in purely different ways and in the way that someone is elected to a function, and also tells how independent and independent such an official is then and how he can actually play this role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We won't support the marriage. In fact, if I let go of everything else, as already discussed by fellow Members and fellow Members, it is unacceptable that the competences of control and research are almost transferred to a number of such bodies, which are certainly not even qualified and even less competent. The Court of Auditors is certainly unable to control all public officials, after all, the Court of Auditors has other competences, other purposes, and I do not know how the Court of Auditors should exercise control over receiving gifts, as the Kosovo Commission has not been able to do so. We know cases of ham, prosciutto, various sausages and the like being on the Kosovo Commission because the Commission had to confiscate them for one simple reason because they were worth more than that minimum amount allowed for gifts. I don't know how it's gonna be in the Court of Auditors, what kind of lunch, which will be more than a minimum sum for a gift. Will they bring a plate of beef soup or something, I don't know, or a slice of beef? Then what will Mr. President of the Court of Auditors do? Is he gonna lock this in the safe, or is he gonna eat it, or is he gonna pour it away? The party can't pour because it's evidence and - I don't know. In short, it's funny. What's even more funny is how they're going to do this, say, the state election commission, the municipal and provincial election commissions, the judiciary and the state prosecutor's council. I don't know which municipal electoral commission will be allowed to control the municipal councillor. This can be done, for example, by the oversight committee of the congregation - the congregation council. The municipal electoral commission has other powers: it has the competence to determine the correctness of the candidates and at the end of the determination and declaration of results. Not to control whether one of the officials ate sausage with a hot one that "costed" in one "stacuna" three euros, but in one "nobel" restaurant, for example, twenty or twenty euros, which is already part of a corrupt act. I think we are absolutely smiling with this law, and such a law certainly cannot go on. The law we tabled in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party was a good law and I think that the Court of Auditors or the Constitutional Court made a big mistake when it was cancelled. And also the argument of the Constitutional Court that if these suspicions of corruption were reviewed by the Commission in the National Assembly, political involvement, it would be foolish. On this committee, representatives of all political parties or representatives of all political parties would be, which means that the Commission would be absolutely politically balanced. There wouldn't be a left or right side preference, or I don't know who. But it would be clear who inside is all members of all political options, and therefore it will certainly not be possible to favour one side or the other. However, the Constitutional Court does not think so. The Constitutional Court has one concept of thinking, as does the complete judiciary in the Republic of Slovenia, which has a higher concept of thinking about all other citizens and citizens and working in its own way, as is the case with whom it "feeds". After all, they have absolute immunity; they have mandates such as to concentrate on their chairs and similar matters. In short, the law, once again, we won't support it. But we expect from the government in a short time a new one, which, of course, is going to confuse these nonsensees that are now in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u73	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I am firmly convinced that the regulation of the issue of detection and prevention of corruption and accordingly of other legitimate phenomena for a fully independent independent body, as we call it, in this case, the Kosovo Commission, is good. Only a correction of the Anti-Corruption Act regulating the establishment of an independent anti-corruption commission within the meaning of the findings of the Constitutional Court would be necessary. Such a solution is, if nothing else, the only one consistent with the United Nations Convention on the Prevention of Corruption. This Convention has finally been ratified by the Republic of Slovenia, unfortunately by the setback of accession from government outlets by the establishment of a government officer who could ultimately lead to the practical control or control of the bag by those who also give it. The proposal or solution, as set out in the proposal for this Act, scatters the scope of detection, prevention and so forth of corruption to the full for these matters by the competent authorities or institutions or entities, which are often not sufficiently trained and also subject to comprehensive arrangements for such special operations. Such an approach is logically the very effect in terms of "full grandmother, bald child". It would be necessary and truly good to establish an existing commission as a special body for this area of human resources, organisationally, competently, to strengthen, to establish an integrated infrastructure - logistics instruments such as, say, those owned by appropriate bodies such as the financial police in some other European countries, and ultimately, the staff of such a commission should be well paid and thus further directed to ensure that these people are stable and neutral in their work. It is weak that the mission of this Commission, this independent commission, is all too much, unfortunately, transforming itself into its President, and especially to the insults that this President enjoys by the key SDS officials. This is a major mistake, for the purpose of which this commission was established by law is practically nullified or prevented by this commission from carrying out what it derives from the United Nations Convention. I reject the bill as such. This is also, in my firm belief, a starting point in the context of the United Nations Convention against Corruption in preventing corruption, a step back. I therefore hope that wisdom will prevail in this National Assembly and that this bill will be rejected in principle. If that does not happen, I am sure that we will reject it after the State Council has acted a little more wisely if the law is to be adopted and it will be necessary for a veto to gather a more appropriate quorum. I certainly don't support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Members and Members of Parliament. Of course, I will not support the Law on Restrictions and Prohibitions for Public Functional Operators, because I agree with those who say that this law will allow, if you want, to a greater extent corrupt acts and even to the extent that it has broken down the system so far. I do not see how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was first received by the State Council, can then make clear by the Constitutional Court that it is not appropriate to dismantle the institution that we have in Slovenia today - the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption - believes that instead of one commission some over 200 different institutions will better exercise control over the actions of public officials. Even when I look at the text of this law, there are a lot of things that bother me. It is interesting to note that another important chapter in this law is the prohibition and restriction on the acceptance of gifts. In view of the familiar events, I would suggest that we have here a provision of a law that would, in particular, prohibit officials from giving gifts. Because giving has given away what is a problem that means corruption. It's just the first step. This is also what Mr Soltes is talking about in today's interview. Because if the Government, for example, decides by its political decision to give a large gift to an institution - one of the Members has spoken today, we are talking about the low value of the General Navigation Piran - then something is wrong, then this is the path to corruption in the next step. It is certainly clear that when this law is enforced, it is not known who will be easy and who will act preventively. One of the fundamental features of the anti-corruption commission, as it has been working since 2004, is that it has given its opinions. Let me remind you of at least two cases. One was a case of so-called passing of the law, as it was later determined, of helicopter transport. The second opinion was whether a corrupt and potentially corrupt act was an abuse of the position exercised by a director of an authority within the Ministry of Finance when we showed Members and Members with documents that there had been a corrupt act, that there had been a giving of gifts to individuals through some fictitious treaties. That is why I think that going four years after we have an anti-corruption commission that is obviously stepping on a scoundrel, obviously puts enough pressure on the current executive power, it's kind of unacceptable that this executive authority, which you say is supposed to act anti-corruption, in fact the institution that has warned of this, removes it and dispels it into two hundred and so many institutions. Some have already discussed how the Court of Auditors will play this role today. You know, to listen to the government representatives that the Court of Auditors is the right institution to now receive data on the property situation and, on this basis, to identify any changes and so on means two. First of all, it means that the Court of Auditors, which has to deal primarily with the efficiency of public spending and the possible illegalities of public spending procedures, as laid down in public financial legislation, is to give this Court other tasks. My colleague Darja Lovtijar spoke of the fact that this task was not given to the Court of Auditors by the constitution. It is not assigned to the Court of Auditors to report the assets. Even if we go very precisely to the dictates of law, you will see that in the so-called philosophy of reducing administrative burdens you have even said that the authorities will send this data to the Court of Auditors themselves. However, you have forgotten the very important institutions that can have a significant impact on the property situation of an individual official, but of course no one is obliged to report this information. I am talking about whether the Court of Auditors, like the anti-corruption commission now, will fully implement the same form as the anti-corruption commission. I have to say, the core of the problem we're talking about is in this form. At the time of the entry into force of this law and at the beginning of the work of the Anti-Corruption Commission, thousands of officials in Slovenia had to give a very comprehensive presentation of their assets, income, expenditure, if you want, assets and debt conditions and then, of course, net assets. If we abolish the anti-corruption commission, it is not clear who the officials will give a new situation at the end of their term of office and who will compare these two situations. That's not clear, I'll say, at least for the municipal officials, it's not clear. Since municipal officials should, of course, report this to the municipal electoral commissions from now on, so that we are not talking about some others. The law, as it is prepared, is primarily due to the termination of the anti-corruption commission or the Kosovo Commission if you wish. And the law, as it is prepared, prevents preventive action in the field of corruption and, of course, is a much worse solution than the road so far. In the end, of course, this government relationship or I'll just say, Janez Janša to the Court of Auditors. The law doesn't know what happens if someone doesn't do something. Is it not clear what happens if, simply put, someone breaks the story, except that it is said that his salary will be reduced by a tenth for each month, when he has not reported something, to the minimum wage. You know, if someone is a functionary and, in fact, they say, "gives and is allowed to give gifts" and then, of course, in some other form, these gifts are returned and not reported to this Court of Auditors, it is all that will happen, that he will still be an official, but that he will be an official with a minimum wage. In the case of poor management, of course, the Law on the Court of Auditors provides that such an official should leave. However, we have seen these days in the case of Minister Podobnik that Janez Janša does not respect the law on the Court of Auditors and does not intend to do what is already legal. So explain to me how the new system will carry out the preventive role of anti-corruption authorities and how we will ensure that officials respect each other in advance if you want, the principled opinions. And several ten opinions drawn up by the Anti-Corruption Commission in recent years have been an important reference to both internal auditors, external auditors, internal auditors, what is and what is not permissible and what is not so-called a corrupt act. So, of course, this marriage is a big step back. Step back to the time when Slovenia did not meet the conditions necessary to fulfil the entry into these certain international institutions, including the European Union, and I fear that Slovenia will be a field in which corruption will only spread because you are abolishing the anti-corruption commission. Winston Churchill said, "When you don't want to solve problems, you set up a commission." And since you do not want to solve the problems of corruption, you are setting up more than 200 commissions, which will, in sayings, "incurring" with the so-called limitation and banning of winning activities for public function holders. That is why this marriage is bad and follows us back instead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u76	The hall is beautiful. Mr. Drago Koren, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u77	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings to the Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. I will begin my debate first by stressing that I personally am very committed to any corruption and anywhere in any institution preventing and eradicating it. I must say that I support every and every institution that seeks to prevent corruption and that corruption is also eradicated. In Slovenia, we have several institutions in charge of their functions and have the task of detecting and prosecuting corruption, led by the police, the prosecution and then by the judiciary. And in my opinion, these institutions are the first to be called, who must do everything possible to prevent and prosecute corruption in our country, but also, I would say, to lead to a judicial epilogue. There's a lot of talk today about abolishing the Kosovo Commission. I think it is really wrong and it is not fair that we are today discussing and talking about if we know that this has already been done by the law adopted in 2006. We could talk and discuss today that these tasks in this law, which we are adopting today, should be given back to a special commission, which we call the Kosovo Commission by old. Personally, I must say that I have no reservations to any commission, and even less so to any dear piece, because we're even the namesake. But to discuss and talk now about if you are going to end Kosovo's commission, I think it is unnecessary and not even to say, misleading the public. I must say personally, I agree and I do not mind having these tasks taken over by the Court of Auditors, as proposed in this bill today. I think our Court of Auditors is one independent body. I would even hope to say that this is one organ in Slovenia, which, I think, works very well. And I see no reason to oppose the proposal for the Court of Auditors to do so. Earlier, one of the debaters had also talked about this, and I must say that I was very struck by the fact that this must be done by an independent institution, which must be paid well. I ask you kindly whether we are not all obliged to do our work well and honestly. I see this as a criticism of all other employees in various bodies, in different institutions to work poorly, and therefore they are also poorly paid. I think we need to be honest. Each worker deserves an appropriate and appropriate payment for his or her work. To talk in advance about the need to pay someone well for doing well, but I find it humiliating for all the other workers and workers, especially those with the lowest personal incomes that work for a month not to say low wages. I have to say, I was a little confused earlier when I was talking about having nothing to do with this Court of Auditors taking over. On the other hand, I do not see the need to set up another independent institution for this purpose. I don't think it's necessary, as one of the debaters did before, I think even Milan has spoken, we're setting up commissions, we're setting up commissions, we're setting up commissions, we're looking at commissions, we're looking at commissions. Why so many committees? I agree with that. By saying why we would be duplicating or designing a new institution here, if, at least I think, the Court of Auditors can do so to the best of its ability and, say, the electoral commission, the municipal and the state. I will conclude with this, I just want to allow any authority - but the Court of Auditors is currently provided in this law - to successfully and effectively detect and continue to initiate the procedures for the persecution of corruption that occurs in Slovenia, and we will do the most for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Member Milan M. Squeakl signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u79	I should say to my fellow Member of Parliament that Milan, of course, did not say anything about the problem of setting up commissions. I said the following, that there is no need to abolish the anti-corruption commission and instead to set up two hundred and so many committees that will deal with what a team of fifteen people is now doing. And you cannot expect that now 200 commissions - no, no, be careful, they do not have this task - 200 commissions must ensure that if you want, discretion, they must have the same forms, they must obtain this data in the same way as they are now given under their official responsibility by the anti-corruption commission. And the Court of Auditors doesn't even have this role to play. Therefore, if you wish, we also have the Court of Auditors to determine whether the verification procedures are in line with public financial legislation. This can also be checked by the Court of Auditors. The Anti-Corruption Commission shall be empowered to collect such data and shall, in particular, give principled opinions. And these opinions hurt you because there are so many mistakes in this mandate and the anti-corruption commission has warned you about it. The law no longer provides for this role of the anti-corruption commission, nor is it clear who will and how it will cooperate with law enforcement authorities, and so on. Therefore, my dear fellow Koren, I think you are blindly following the policy of Janez Janša, who, to create a fog, to create many institutions, many commissions, so that the problem of corruption will not be solved.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u80	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'd like to go on with what my colleague Squeakle said. I think it was Churchill who said that if you don't want to solve or do something, then call the commission. And here we appoint or impose 210 municipal electoral commissions, plus, say, if 14 provinces, 14 provincial electoral commissions, one state electoral commission, the Court of Auditors, the Council of Justice, the Prosecutor's Council, it's not 210, it's not 210, but it's about 230 commissions and, as a matter of fact, it's the Court of Auditors, who's going to find out, as a matter of fact, whether the individual officials were all unjustifiably acquiring property, accepting gifts and so on. And here I would point to one important thing. That this law, as well as the law partially repealed by the Constitutional Court and the partial requirement to remedy the shortcomings, in fact leaves one of the very important tasks that the Commission has to prevent corruption, which is to monitor or prevent the activities of public servants as well. If we go analytically to examine the occurrence of exposed corruption in the past 10, 15 years, we can see that most of the corruption that has been revealed and also subsequently dealt with is, in fact, with public officials, not so much with officials. Only these public servants perform work that is very decisive in selecting operators, in granting subsidies, in selecting concessionaires and so on and so on. In particular, for example, who grants concessions for any monopolistic activity of public interest? It is awarded by the chairman of an office in a municipality by a simple decision on the basis of a call for tender, but under the Law on Public Economic Services. So, who is the one who, among the officials, is, for example, in a congregation responsible for the fact that he would have been bribed to decide on certain concessionaires? Who says that only public officials are the ones, rather, I will say in the first person of the plural, who is exposed to pressure or the possibility of being bribed or accepting too much gift? It is funny, for example, that, among other things, what is a corrupt act other than giving gifts, and it is stated in the provisions of this law that someone who accepts contrary to paragraph 3 of Article 3 who violates the law in contravention of Article 3 shall pay 200 to 1200 euros in fines. Interesting, isn't it? So if a million euros gets a big gift, it pays 200 to 1200 euros in fines. Very interesting. But in this way will we persecute and prevent corruption?Oh, my God! And one more thing. The fact is that the imposition of additional tasks on the Court of Auditors, which we have already heard today, has a specific role to play with the Constitution, on its initial side of each audit report, states that they follow public money. When we talk about public officials and public servants and the potential for corruption in relation to them - this is not about public money. Here it goes for the vast majority of the money they give, or the gifts given by individuals of private law. Individuals and individuals of private law. It seems illogical to give the task of such a kind to the Court of Auditors. Is it not possible that this law has also been introduced in order to overload the Court of Auditors so much as to prevent it from carrying out the basic task assigned to it by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? Maybe that's the point. And I'll say it again, even though it might be a little overkill. I will repeat that it seems ridiculous, cynical to me, that someone who first claims that the Court of Auditors does not have the right to request the discharge of a public official, since the constitution contains that public official, and at the same time on the same day, we insist that the following day he will have to request the discharge of a public official who is also enshrined in the constitution. I think we have come at a time when a simple person can no longer believe that a citizen of a state in which there is no longer any truth is in force, no rule where a minister who makes such a law can afford to be absent from the meeting of the National Assembly, a legislative body, so that he can be asked how he could have allowed himself to write such scarves in this law. That there are things in this law, such as a penalty for a legal person who does not provide information on his employee, a worker who is at risk of a fine of 200 to, I don't know how much, 4000 euros, in the Offences Act, which is the basis of that penalty, but the lowest penalty is 400 euros. Yeah, for God's sake, what can you do to look into another marriage? It says that an official who does not surrender his mandate, while performing a job that is incompatible with his function, I am talking about the mayor, the mayor, that he simply tolerates the fact that this law states that he must do so within one month. But if we look at the local government law, it's been there for three months. What does this say about the quality of the ministry's work, which will most emboss the state administration, which will give the most public image to the excellence of the workers in this ministry. That's all there is to it. And I think there's something else. Use the drafting of laws and the legislative procedure to make a person who gets on our nerves, who will in any case expire his term in 2009, to go to law-writing and force them through the National Assembly, leaving a very, very important part of the fight against corruption. The fact is that, in particular, over the last two years, without any overstatement, I can claim that corruption in Slovenia, if not the other, is at least more noticeable to the public than ever before that we have come so far that we can no longer afford to run such laws through the National Assembly. That is why I warn you, ladies and gentlemen, as many of you as you are here, that before the eyes of the Slovenes and the Slovenians, you are going across every border.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mr Rep, is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Really, the question is, who goes across every border? However, I will not argue with you about such allegations, but some clear facts have been said here, as well as some misunderstandings in previous discussions, and I think it is right to clarify and clarify some things. As for the supervision of municipal electoral commissions, 200 and something that will solve corruption tomorrow, which will deal with and deal with what tasks I don't know. I would still ask you to take a good look at what this article says. This article only solves one question: the issue of incompatibility. If we look at the Commission's report on anti-corruption for 2006, such cases in the area of incompatibility were throughout the year, I can read here, nine cases have been dealt with, five opinions and 11 conclusions have been delivered. It's huge. The Court of Auditors and the Government’s intention to suspend the Court of Auditors by working so that they will not be able to carry out their basic mission. If that were the case, a man could agree with you. But the truth is far from that. An important mandate is added to the Court of Auditors, which will represent a minimum share of the additional burden and will therefore also receive additional people. If I look again at the report of this Commission, we find that the Commission has dealt with three cases in the area of asset reporting in 2006. Huge, really huge, three cases. With regard to some of the debates and clarifications that the Council of State opposes this treatment. I myself participated in the entire procedure carried out by the Council of State around this law, and the Council of State supported this law. As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, all the provisions set out here have been harmonised, most of them have also been finalized and corrected and coordinated with the Court of Auditors. So we don't invent or collide with some of our own solutions. By the way, thank you, we are indeed the ministry that is striving for excellence, indeed. And I think citizens know how to evaluate this properly. As for the suspension of the commission and the controversy. Some Members explained very well what the previous law had passed, whose implementation had been suspended by the Constitutional Court. I'd like to add a word here. By means of these transitional provisions, we are essentially extending the implementation of the Commission to 1. 1. 2009 If we wanted this to be lifted immediately, we would not have written any of these transitional provisions. And if this law were to be passed, then the matter would be closed. For the end, one more sentence. It is wrong to think that we have a law on the table dealing with the fight against corruption or a law regulating the fight against corruption. With these questions, we already have a number of laws in our country that deal with this. And the fight against corruption is primarily the responsibility of the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, which we have recently been able to monitor for ourselves how this matter is served in some cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The question is whether you are qualified to assess the confusion of Members or the inaccuracies. A replica, a colleague of Pecan's.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u85	I think that, however, the sarcasm presented largely by the representative of the Ministry of Administration is not in place. To talk about what I was talking about when I was talking about the excellence of this ministry, I was talking about, say, the consistency of two laws with this law, the non-compliance. And it's not about excellence, it's about negligence. However, when we talk about the fight against corruption, we cannot fight corruption as the only fight against detection and punishment of corruption, but especially with prevention, according to the texts we receive in international instruments. And here this law deals with prevention only in the case of public officials. And nothing, but it really brings nothing with regard to prevention, which is called how different than that public servants and public officials must also be armed, because many people do not know that they are exposed to corruption and that what they are doing can be a corrupt act. And that, dear gentlemen, is not what you have written in this law, and that is why you are doing this country with disabilities in the fight against corruption. That's one. And lastly, I'm sorry, do I have to finish right now? [[...]] I can still talk. Well, I'd like to say one last thing. When you talk about the grace time you give to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, not to Mr Kos, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which is a truly independent body. Election commissions that will collect data on the property situation, in this law, for example, are not written that the property situation - I am talking about the properties owned by officials - is not public data. Interesting! Why didn't you write this - so that the public property status of all the officials can be published. Right now, we've got a question from some media about what's going on with this. [[The ad in the hall.]] Excuse me? What kind of marriage? I wasn't against the law. I said the law says it's public for everyone. And also for those public officials dealing with important decisions that could lead to corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Member Rudolf Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Corruption is a major problem in every country where it occurs. And unfortunately, the results show that it appears in every country, the question is just what level it is and how things are being handled. That the matter is indeed problematic, it also shows that corruption has emerged at the very top of the United Nations. You must all remember that. This is said to be a serious matter and a serious and effective approach is needed. It should also be pointed out that the rule of law also refers to good supervisory authorities and good services with appropriate tools and appropriate competences. And this fight against corruption is the most effective where all the authorities responsible for supervision work well, one way or another, and which also have all the tools. Let me just remind you that a law has also been passed in Slovenia so that all the assets of officials are made public. But, look, a fraction of it, some of the opposition put it to the Constitutional Court, which then stopped the case, rejected it, if it were things that weren't public. So pour crocodiles tears from the opposition to make it good. Excuse me. The law was passed. Why did you put him in the Constitutional Court if something was already wrong? Now you're saying what the Constitutional Court found wrong. That's why it's a big hoax. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I would return to the beginning of this story. I think it was in 2004, when we started talking and adopting legislation on this committee. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party at that time we represented exactly the position we are representing today. We haven't changed anything. And at that time, we warned that such a commission could not be effective. Let me remind you - we didn't even know who was going to be president at the time. This means that we are not talking about the President, but we are talking about the commission. At that time, we said that such a commission could not be effective. We've given the parable of a toothless tiger. The same opinion, we have exactly the same opinion today. Exactly the same. That means we haven't changed our minds. We are still talking about this, and this can be said in a qualified way, because today is such a distance of time, when we can already assess the work of this Commission. I'm talking strictly about the commission. Mainly, when we evaluate the work of this commission, we are talking about a large media pump, a few municipal officials. That was a lot. Later it turned out that this is more on the torn legs, that things do not come at all over the first stage of the bodies responsible for it. There was much talk about the mayor's compatibility or incompatibility with his post as principal at primary school. Please! If this is the aim of a battle against the corruption of this commission, then I don't know where we live. If this is the main problem, that the principal may or may not be the mayor. What does this have to do with corruption? Good with the incompatibilities, yes. But corruption, when you talk so much today, has nothing to do with it. If the principal is also the mayor and gets paid for what he does honestly, it is just as it is by law. I don't see any corruption here. And that was one of the great achievements of, say, this commission. I'm stressing the commission. But there was no talk of any road lobby and any "pure shovels" as is spoken of today. I use these terms in public. Otherwise, I don't think so. Nothing was said about it. Of course, millions and billions of euros are turning there. There was no talk about that. And since we've talked about this a lot today, I'm not going to repeat what was said. But something stabbed me. In fact, it has been said that we are possessed or opposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party to this commission and the President, and that is why such a law has also emerged. Listen, now I'm gonna ask you a little different. Would you rather see that we get along well with this committee and this president? I wonder what they'd only be saying then, what they'd be talking about if we got along just fine. And you know, I'd rather hear you say we're opposed than understand each other well with this committee for two reasons. For the first time, because we object because we have already opposed it at the time of creation. Check the magnetograms, read what we said at the plenary sessions and at the committee meetings when we set up this committee when you wanted to set it up, exactly as we speak today. That's why it doesn't bother us if you say we don't understand each other, because we've already basically said that this commission can't achieve what we want. And secondly, it would be very difficult to tell us that we've hooked up with such a committee. Think about what you're reading to us. And to conclude. Why, though, do you have such fear that the Court of Auditors will exercise control? The Court of Auditors has teeth, but that's not the commission. That's what the board says has the tools to do. Are you now afraid of controlling an institution that has all the tools? I don't understand that. Or maybe you don't trust the Court of Auditors? Do you think that this is not an independent supervisory authority? I'm not saying that you think so, I'm just asking a hypothetical question, just like you asked us in a different form. And one more thing, that's for sure. According to some public opinion polls, we have more corruption in Slovenia recently, and we set up a commission four years ago. Yeah, how's that working out now? Now this isn't working out. We have a commission that says it works well, and according to public opinion polls, we have more corruption. That's what they say. Something doesn't go together. The real truth has to be somewhere else. And once again, I would like to point out that we are defending the same positions in the SDS as we were when the Commission was established, when we didn't even know who would be a member of this commission. That's what they say. Names don't play any role in this. It is only what an authority has in its jurisdiction, what its powers are and what it can do in essence. That's all this is about. And at this time in this time distance, the true correctness of our claims has proved to be that it is some commission that does not have all the powers or that is a toothless tiger who does not have all the tools to do what it was set up for. And we still say that, and that's why we're making such a proposal. I will support such a proposal that is before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u88	Thank you very much. But to my word, I'd like to invite a magician. Franc Gniedarsich. He's not here? Member Happy Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Demagogy itself is you, and corruption is growing, as citizens say. If we looked at the voice of the people, we would see that Slovenians believe that they are the most corrupt doctors, and that they are followed by lawyers, notaries, police officers, inspectors, customs officers, MPs, we are not exempt and not judges. Nice! Look, you're talking about the state putting up levers and that we have an excellent area to control corruption. On 6 May 2005, I addressed the Minister of Finance with a written question asking him why he had allowed the state authorities to falsify and cheat as many as two thirds of Slovenians. Once upon a time, 350 thousand certificates are worth only 10 tolars today, I'm talking about tolars, for 350 thousand we got them, after 10 you can sell them today. And, see, this very field, this very pasture, has also allowed the country to become a modern - day rich. Has anyone heard from you? Officially? Did she arrest anyone? No, he's still stealing. Unpurchased shares shall be pledged for the guarantee. And today it's possible. And you can have a verified situation tomorrow if the Kosovo Commission or the Court of Auditors or the law enforcement authorities want to act. But nothing's gonna happen. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] And one more thing I want to tell you is that on 29 March we addressed a request to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in which we requested a review of the financial situation for all former political activists [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u90	Thank you very much. To the word I invite the apostle Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, distinguished presidents, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a new law to regulate, above all, the incompatibilities of public functions, now called the Law on Restrictions and Prohibitions of Public Functions. In this regard, in fact, there has been a major controversy in the local public for some time, particularly with regard to the functioning of the anti-corruption commission. I say that this commission has done extremely little under the current leadership. That she was not successful and that she was very political about matters. In her principled opinions, she tried to cover only one spectrum of political space, public officials, and so the politically defined Commission is not in fact in that country, but not in an area that is extremely important - the fight against corruption. The fight against corruption is an extremely important task of the authorities and of all the authorities involved in the prosecution of corruption, with the right of criminals, prosecutors and courts. And this fight cannot be fought with methods that are politically conditional. I will give you an example of such unsustainable, unheard-of political conduct, while at the same time the misuse of budgetary resources for non-budgetary purposes. In this year or last year, the Commission for the Persecution of Corruption commissioned a study at the Faculty of Law concerning the conduct of police at the asylum home in Postojna, where the Strojan family was inhabited. Think about it. The anti-corruption commission was working on whether the police respected human rights consistently in the Strojan family. The more eloquent political conduct, the more illegal, we cannot imagine. And with these findings, of course they paid for the study, the study was probably done according to the customer's wishes, they went to a press conference. Extensive politicization, unintended use of resources. That is why I am surprised when a fellow Member said that the issues stem from the indignation of SDS officials to the President of this Commission. No offense. However, we will draw attention to the inadvertent use of money, the misuse for political purposes, and we cannot remain silent that this is an official who has so eloquently violated human rights and yet feels neither objective nor moral responsibility to waive in the final judgment of the Court, which has found a violation of human rights. That is why I must say that if Members agree that such a function can be performed, but here I cannot agree, a man who has so eloquently violated human rights, the rights of journalists, I think we must stand in this country to withdraw to another place. And you should back off on your own. I remember the articles in Finance and others when the journalists and the entire survey were where they made it clear that he had lost his moral legitimacy. And now we have someone to point out that these are insults. These are insults against human rights. Do these parties, who are so vehemently defending this, then agree with human rights violations, so eclectic? It's fine with me if you think so. The relatively large budget of this Commission, we have seen earlier, has not taken advantage of the fact that very few cases have been dealt with, that this Commission actually has the sole purpose of looking politically and that if there is a reallocation of these functions, these have been carried out by other existing commissions, it is rational and will not be damaged by the fight against corruption. However, the fight against corruption is being fought at this time and at this time extremely effectively in this country. That's the main thing you're worried about. That's the main thing. A colleague from Social Democracy said that corruption in Slovenia is now more visible than before. And that bothers her. Of course, it is more noticeable that we are witnessing every day an effective part of the prosecutions, the criminal police. When you were in power, it wasn't happening, it wasn't happening, it was consciously blocking, it was decommissioning the criminal police inside the police to be ineffective for a long time. It took us a while to make these institutions effective. But now they're working, and that's what's killing the opposition. You from the opposition, when you were in power, have extended the statutes of limitation to economic crime in order to protect all those who deal with the crime of white collars in order never to come before the time of justice. And because of this, I am not surprised that the representative of the Liberal Democracy has said that we will fight with all our might against the enforcement of the law. But it's not the only law you're going to fight with all your might. Yesterday it was clear that if you came to power, you would stop free kindergartens immediately. Because this is a privilege for a wide range of people, not just the elite. You always work for the elite. You were disturbed by the diaphragm. You'll also end this if you come to power. You have now prevented the introduction of the provinces, because with the provinces Slovenia would decentralize itself, there would be a lot of money, even in Prekmurje, including in Haloz, also in Pohorje, even in the Sočko valley, also in the White Krajina. You're against it. And for the same reasons, you also object to a change in this area where we see inefficiency, inaction, political engagement of officials. I see absolutely nothing in your efforts to fight corruption. Do you think they're so close to the election that you'll be able to extend this period, when you didn't fight corruption yourself, for the next four years? You won't. The voters won't support you. Voters support what is happening to fight very effectively against corruption, against economic crime, and you will get confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u92	Thank you, too. A replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u93	Very short. Interestingly, this very effective fight for corruption has ruled out two beautiful boys, a member of your party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u94	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Martin Mikolić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. I am also of the opinion that, despite today's extensive debate where there are different opinions, the subject of this legislation is quite important. The fight against corruption is certainly important. But I would say that honesty should be the first and greatest value of officials. In view of the fact that public officials are also involved in important decisions when talking about public money, this is certainly true of them. And if that were the case, then we certainly wouldn't need the law, not the authorities. Because that is not the case, we need to have appropriate legislation and we need to have appropriate, if I may say so, supervisory authorities. Whether the solution proposed by the law is ideal, we can see that this is why we have a general debate today, because we Members are also trying to present our views, our opinions on the proposal. I'd like to mention that. Look, if the municipal electoral commission is to be supervised, I see nothing wrong here, because it will decide, as previously said, on the compatibility or incompatibility of certain functions. Maybe the municipal electoral commission will feel better. From a professional point of view, it may also be necessary to determine what is compatible and what is incompatible. In municipalities, in local communities, there are many things going on where those who are mayors sometimes find that certain things do not go together. I'll only mention one thing. Whether a member or a member of the municipal council is at the same time a lawyer representing in a particular case a citizen or a citizen in a dispute against a municipality. It doesn't work for me. But why would I say that? That's what happens in practice. Because this lawyer, who is also a member of the municipal council, is not in an equal position with another lawyer who does not have specific internal information, if I may say so now, on the situation in the congregation or on certain matters in which a particular dispute occurred. No one has ever discussed this or thought about it, but it is also one of the problems that are happening at the level of local communities. As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned. Since I have already had the opportunity as mayor to meet with the Court of Auditors, I would like to mention what I think I have already said several times about their specific decisions on the cost-effectiveness of certain projects carried out at the level of local communities. I've always felt here that this Court of Auditors can't judge. What's the cause of this? This is certainly the reason for the legislation. Legislation that clearly specifies from the legal point of view of a particular case. And this legislation, which is also right, since we have adopted it in the National Assembly or adopted it by the legislator, the Court of Auditors holds. And sometimes it can happen to you that in the end the case, which, from an economic point of view, has certainly been handled well by a certain investor, and in the end, from the Court of Auditors' point of view, is not so. And given that the Court of Auditors is supposed to deal with this area of corruption or these acts, somehow I hope that it will be easier on their part to assess what a corrupt act is and what it is not. Something about gifts. I'm a 13-year-old mayor, and I think it was already in the previous gift-restriction law. I have to say in public here that I have never seen this matter and the question of whether I will see it in the future. Otherwise, we may be a little naive, perhaps one who is at least honest and we are not really interested in this matter. However, if someone brought a pint of wine to the congregation office at the end of the year, and this was the right wine, we all drank it together when possible, under the adage that some children were also drinking in the workplace. But the other thing is, if I'm with a citizen or a business partner this afternoon, if I may say so, I'm going to go to the inn for two kids, will I have to look there in this case, or will we at least pay our kids? Listen, we're in Styrian, because we're not Gorenjeks. That's actually a saying, because I think they've gotten a lot better lately. And to write things like that again, I say, by those who I think we have this value that I mentioned at the outset, I think -- but it has to be, it seems. But today I seriously wonder where are those big fish that should be caught. Now, whether this law is going to be any more productive, at least I hope that from this point of view it should be, for those for whom we are actually adopting this legislation. So I will support this law, because I expect it to allow the fight against those who are working, if I may, unfairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Excuse me, but I'd like to put it out of this place myself. It's a tough fight, Comrade Mikolitch. 50 minutes ago, I had to convince the press that I wasn't in jail at the moment. I want to say that individual hints can be extremely damaging to such debates in this National Assembly, but they refer in particular to the morals of individuals who launch such information into the public. Otherwise, thank you very much for your discussion. I'd like to take a word with my colleague Potts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues from the coalition are also very dual this time. Some say the reasons for the amendment of the legislation, that was Mr Jerovšek, others hiding behind different positions. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Some suggest that the Court of Auditors should be the main director of our work, while the President of the Government does not respect the Court of Auditors' decisions. It's just a function that makes [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The reported time of your parliamentary group has expired. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Member Davorin Targeton has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u99	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I very much recall the discussions of the previous term, when it was possible to hear from the opposition at the time the charges against the then government, us Members, with three K's shortcuts: corruption, clientism and crime. Therefore, the Government's expectations that it would take very quickly measures at this point, or that it would put this as a priority for its action, were very high. It is interesting to note that a comparison between this and the previous government shows that a government anti-corruption office has been established in previous governments, that a anti-corruption commission has been set up, but that during this government, it is interesting how it was possible to follow up on activities for three years in order to avoid such a commission. It was interesting to hear today's quote from the report on the Commission's work on anti-corruption, which was discussed by the National Assembly at its previous meeting. Today we have listened to quotations, but it would be very good to have quotations eliminated or read them to the Slovenian public from the end. For today there have been many instances of coalition Members of the Commission's ineffective functioning. But interestingly, we supported the conclusions of this report, which say that in 2006 the work of the Commission was mainly or the work of the Commission was mainly influenced by two factors. First place is her withdrawal. Why didn't you tell the Secretary of State that this had a very significant impact on the numbers you were talking about? Therefore, the abolition of this Commission has had a significant impact on the efficiency of the work of this Commission. This was confirmed here in the National Assembly. And then what did this committee have to deal with? Do you remember that the Commission was running out of resources for its work because we were also put in a fundraiser by calling for external aid so that this commission could have material working conditions? This is what you don't want to tell the government today, not the coalition. That's what's been going on. And this is recorded in the conclusions of this report that I do not read everything. And if you are reading further, in the conclusions of this report, confirmed in this National Assembly, it says that despite all the problems, the Commission, as the only body in Slovenia, has tried to prevent and limit corruption as planned. We've confirmed that, too. In doing so, the Commission is concerned about the fact that what I said before also confirms the fact that the Commission has acted under what conditions, so the Commission is concerned that neither in the programming nor in the budgetary material of any body is it detectable that it was their priority against corruption. Is it not interesting that none of the documents in three years of this government has been able to identify the priority of the work of this government, for which it was actually offered in the elections, but that the three K's will no longer exist with the arrival of the new government or will no longer exist? Isn't that interesting, that big opposition? And after you read further in this report, you will conclude that the situation in the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia is extremely worrying. And this assessment was confirmed by the National Assembly. Not only is it not improving, it is possible to see the deliberate destruction of all serious anti-corruption activities and actively by setting conditions for the development and spread of true systemic corruption. Mr State Secretary, please tell me if it is not a signal from the work of this government that responds to the proposed measure by the Court of Auditors that this does not count. From which level and to which level such measures of such an authority, which you propose to play an important role, do not count. Are there exceptions for anyone? Is the rule of law in Slovenia at full scale? These are questions now. Reasons that are very unfair and today speak of electors choosing those who care about student diets to vote for those who want to make it easier to pay for kindergartens. This government and these Members should be reminded of how you voted in the budget debate when we proposed amendments to gradually increase funds for these purposes. Why don't you say so today? You voted against, the government opposed, introducing many amendments that discussed how individual sections should be regulated at the expense of individual members of the ruling coalition. No reason. In just one sentence it said: This will help to improve road safety. Do you know how many of these sections there are? Do only coalition MPs have such sections? So much for this correctness, about this public image that we are giving today. We're giving a public image today. And I do not agree with those assessments that say that this law has nothing to do with the corruption commission and its abolition. We've passed the law. Secretary of State, I know that you're talking to Members of Parliament with arrogant speeches. But when we talk, you make fun of them. That's your relationship. You also have every right, but of course we also have the right to assess such an action. And speaking of these things today, I cannot agree that this law does not end the corruption commission. It was abolished by law before, but in this law, the regulation is disputed with the Constitutional Court. And you have today's scissors and canvas in your hand to propose any other arrangement. You're talking about this because we're going to end it from 1.1.2009. You're offering Santa Claus. At the same time, you are offering a system that we are trying to show you that it could be significantly less effective than an independent commission system that could deal with these cases if we helped to upgrade it in a way that would be effective. And the commission in the report said everything was done to stop it, and everything was done to work under the most difficult conditions. I'd just like to remind you of the operating tables. What did this country do when we proved it in the sense here in the National Assembly? Interpellation was made for this. What happened when you bought the operating tables? There the government did not take into account the previous government's recommendations that there was something wrong with the purchase and that it should follow those instructions. No, it didn't follow. It was a new purchase, with a substantial overvaluation of these operating tables. When you talk about how it was necessary to equip all those government authorities to do this. It was obvious back then. No, in the National Assembly, the MPs said, "No, there's nothing wrong with that." The minister said, "The Slovenians deserve the best operating tables." Ask yourselves, for this government has then given the Slovenes and the Slovenes table, which are not the best. Isn't that interesting? This duality, how these issues are addressed. And there was no desire to explore the international comparison of, say, the prices of the Triumph and Maquet operating tables in the international space. And then you say that all these connections will be monitored by the Court of Auditors. When the Court of Auditors decides something, the government says, "Yes, there are so many other reasons for that." Which is too much to make it happen. And the Court of Auditors has teeth. That was said here today. But in this case these teeth had to be prosthetic, because they had to be excluded, because in this case they did not bite. In this case, the Court of Auditors does not bite. In this case, it will also be very difficult to talk about how the municipal electoral commissions should address very important issues. I think you are aware of the case that in Slovenia we also had to repeat some elections because it was a related link between the electoral commission and one of the candidates. You know, such cases, I think there are even more in Slovenia. And in view of the situation and the situation of this government, which says that as few congregations as possible must be made, as few congregations as possible, that we will all know that we will then be able to have as many relations as possible, which will then control us in the sense that there can be no incompatibilities in the performance of functions. Will this be an effective measure? I doubt that this will be an effective measure. I have every right to doubt. You, too, are not proving to me with any argument that this will be an effective measure. Why do I doubt that? I doubt how you put it in your explanation for this article. For you write: "The legal solution, in accordance with the regulation of the Constitutional Court for the control of the incompatibility of functions and other gainful activities in different branches of authority, shall be granted to the authorities responsible for the appointment of the official." Mr. Secretary of State, do you think we are appointed Members? Are the mayors named? I don't think anyone sitting here is named. Because if he's named, then we don't need him to vote in the fall. Then let the government name us or name all those who can be named. You won't, I'm sure. Then how can he write down such a high profession that the mayor will oversee the authority he appointed? I went to the polls and decided about my mayor in my congregation. When I get back, I'm gonna ask him if anyone named him, not if he was elected by that part of the people who voted for him. You're not convincing me here that this electoral commission is going to be, and we know, like, the people sitting there today, and we know what key they're going for. You know, there's a way to put together an electoral committee. And tell me, where is the argument where is the argument that the effectiveness of this in preventing incompatibilities of functions will be increased? What is the argument in these explanations to this article, or in the explanation, in the introduction? I didn't find it. I am trying to read the documents, at least those where I am involved in the debate, to try to find the right reasons for whether or not it is an argument for or against. You don't convince me with such arguments. We in the National Assembly have confirmed the government. But the National Assembly and Members of the National Assembly were in direct elections. I can understand how funny this is for you, but on a local level, we know roughly how electoral commissions are made up. We know roughly who is sitting there and about how they are trained to successfully fight corruption in whatever form they are expected to be able to do. I'm on a specific case, which I know a number of people who will find it very difficult to accept these burdens. It's also a responsibility. For this is also the responsibility. And how many times has it been said today and in the last period that there is a great lack of knowledge in the fight against corruption, because this system is very complex and knowledge is the basis with which we will be able to do so. And now we're spreading it so that we can't understand it differently than that the actual system can only be even less effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u100	Thank you very much. To the word of the apostle James the Presbyterian. [[He's not here.]] Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Let us all ask together when the story of corruption began. It began in 2004, when this government came into power under the pretext of regulating everything about corruption, clientism and money laundering. She began to regulate her story through one of the first drafts of the law, which, in my opinion, was intended to arouse attention, but still in a better way than before us today, and she used three Members, including the present, under the terms of the opposition. If we move on. When we talk about corruption, and if we look at the law that is before us today, it is a fundamental question that I am asked, who is afraid of someone. Why should apparent transparency, as is the case today, be transformed into complete opacity? Someone dealt with the numbers and the articles and found out that the law allows theoretically 238 authorities to check who will supervise whom. If we know that these authorities have at least four or five members, each neighbor will supervise his neighbor. And who's picking up paranoia? Who's afraid of anything finding out? All this fighting, all these authorities have not been able to verify business at this time, I do not know, I note, Paloma, despite the warning, the company Petek, despite the warning, the Slovenian Week, despite the warning. Do I have to go on? You don't have to, thanks for knowing who it's about. The fact that you have given a priority to the Court of Auditors seems to me not so much in the matter of the Court of Auditors, the bigger question is how the Government will take account of the Court of Auditors. Today I heard a statement by the Prime Minister when he said, "You know, yes, but what a light it would be if this Government were to take account of the Court of Auditors, this metal in the European Union, if you took into account the opinion on the Ministry of the Environment." What does that mean? That any Member, not the opposition, but the government coalitions, at this time, may be allowed, I don't know, even the Jacuzzi, the garbage or whatever, because it would throw a bad light if we now consider it and tell it the truth that it might have done something wrong? So, these six months, we've got the government and the free hands of corruption. It's the same thing with Paloma. Even there in the last six months, it's simple for the government, because it would shed light on the neighbors, not hoping to act, nothing. But obviously, the president of the board is lying about education, the money is sent here and there for some legal opinions, but nothing is done. Is this the fight against corruption? Please, don't paint us? And some of the heroes of your story, which, in the sayings, "sit in the opposition", you probably sent already today to fight implementation, anti-corruption law, when various narratives began to appear about what Members and how they acquire and do things like that. I'm lucky I don't have a chance, not a time to deal with these things. And if this government hadn't hung corruption and clientism on a big bell, I probably wouldn't have noticed it with a free eye. But according to all your reports about what government ministers are doing, I don't know, the finance minister and some others, and that's why you throw away your attention and get a little bit of knowledge and see that it's a bunch of irregularities. Your battles against corruption are, in principle, stopped in some conjectures and guesses. Alone, as has already been said in the introduction by my fellow Member, Mr Pečet, I will not support this law. Once again, the only reason is to make the matter as transparent as possible. You have a lot of reasons for that. Soon there will be elections and how much money will be needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I invite you to my word, Ambassador Cveto Zalokar Orazem. [[She's not here.]] Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u103	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In today's debate, we have heard a great deal about the prevention of corruption, including the fight against corruption, and little less about the law on restrictions and prohibitions on public officials, as is the case with us. I will repeat some of the things I said in the presentation of the position of the Group of Members, including, of course, that the Group of Members opposes this law. We are now even more strongly opposed to this law because of what has been said by several coalition members and, of course, what has been said by the Secretary of State, of course, as has been said. I think that, however, in the National Assembly, we represent the people who elected us, and it's not like they're going to let the Secretary of State talk and judge us in such a flat-rate way. Corruption in Slovenia is either growing or not, in fact, we cannot know this, even because, of course, this government has persistently, accurately and consistently prevented, as far as possible, as far as it was able, the work of the anti-corruption commission. What the Secretary of State has also said about the cases dealt with by corruption is, of course, purely a deception to the public. The Anti-Corruption Commission is doing something other than giving cases further to the prosecution or the police. Then, of course, it comes down to the fact that they are already engaged in acts of corruption or not, as the prosecution or the police have estimated. Sometimes, of course, they get away with something. I've talked about the fact that their seals tighten very badly, and after something escapes, the matter is already procedurally so complicated that it's difficult to bring the case to an end in court. Today, too, things go public too quickly, the judges get infected and, of course, the possibility that the whole process is invalid is much greater. So we'd say, if we adjust the biblical saying, "who with the shovel beats, will be killed with the shovel." This law, which we are currently dealing with, of course, enables the current Government two: for the first time, manipulation, of course, of what is happening in the fight against corruption already committed or the prevention of corruption, and, of course, provides something else, namely that the Anti-Corruption Commission will be abolished in one way or another within the mandate of the next government. So again, a time bomb, something in this low field that this government wants to leave to its successors in any way. That's the kind of stuff that's being passed on. Earlier, colleague Jerovšek - of course, I will also tell you later why he mentioned it - talked about how the opposition against free kindergartens is against the nutrition of secondary schools. Of course, those sandwiches that high school kids are supposed to get aren't there yet. Those free kindergartens will not be available during this government's term of office. So it's okay, but it's something that's going on, that's going on, that's actually going to happen just in case after these elections. I, of course, mention Mr Jerovska because he bribed me with coffee, so that he could replicate, say, I will finish the matter so that you will know how it can go in this National Assembly and how it can be manipulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u104	Thank you very much. You don't have to betray all secrets either, Comrade Gulic. And to the word of the apostle Dimitri Kovačič, be my guest.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Well, even though it wasn't a secret, because if that were true, then Mr Jerovšek would be here taking advantage of the replica. Well, let's cut to the chase. I think that the National Assembly is the right place for a measure, for the right measure of demagogy, but as much demagogy as has been said today in this National Assembly, it has been a long time. It is also clear that Members, objectively speaking, do not have all the knowledge they have, cannot read all the material they then deal with, but not as much ignorance as has been said today to deal with this law, and I have not heard it for a long time. Indeed, it is always trying to talk about how this multitude of different commissions, different authorities will control corruption, identify assets, monitor restrictions and prohibitions and so on. I don't know why such big words when it's not even about that. These numerous authorities, especially here, are talking about an electoral commission at state level, then all the municipal electoral commissions will not carry out anything like this, their exclusive competence will be to control the incompatibilities of functions and nothing else! This part alone will be identified by a number of authorities and nothing else, whether it is civil servants, provincial officials, municipal authorities or others, will be determined by the Court of Auditors. And the Court of Auditors is the institution that will exercise more than 90% of all powers, not those organs. That is why it is demagogic speaking or speaking out of complete ignorance. And now I allow and respect someone who is an expert in the editing and dismantling of traffic signs or traffic tables, but that he speaks about the content of the law completely outside the context, which is more difficult to understand. And someone talking about duality when he's the most double-faced. I don't think that's right, and it would be better if we tried to address the content that we're dealing with and that we're going to decide about later, not that we're talking about everything else. I also find it difficult to understand a Member who was one of the signatories to the Incompatibilities of Functions Act, which this National Assembly had already adopted in 2006, but then, as we know, the Constitutional Court had comments on several articles and found that they were controversial or inconsistent with certain constitutional provisions. For him to say, the Constitutional Court made a mistake, so we're not gonna respect that. For us, that marriage was good, but we don't accept everything else. But it may have made a mistake, but even if it did, the decision of the Constitutional Court is final and must be respected, especially by us sitting in the National Assembly. And on that basis, a new law was now being drawn up. The law follows what was the direction of the Constitutional Court, how it is necessary to correct what the Constitutional Court said was wrong. And here we have this. It has also been said that it is a personal offense against Kos and that the whole purpose is to replace the commission and resolve the Kos. Yeah, that's not true. I think it's the other way around. In view of the experience and practice of the work of the anti-corruption Commission so far, it shows that it was the President of this Commission who had a grudge against some, and then, as I said before, had a considerable political orientation on certain events and on certain people, whom he had specifically discredited by his principled opinions without having any real legal basis for it. And we will all probably agree, if we are honest, that principled opinion should not be evaluated and, in any way, dealt with concrete matters. Even less to deal with concrete people, so that concrete people and concrete events can be learned from these principled opinions. It's not right, it's not a principled opinion, and then it's an abuse of authority. When we talk about this behavior and why it's being replaced. I have already said in the introduction that Mr Kos's actions were problematic. And I've also explained, justified, in what cases. However, this is not about the fact that the President of this Commission is changing and so on, but that the systemic area is regulated in a better, more transparent way that will allow more than it has been possible now. No matter who led this committee and who will lead this committee forward. Yeah. I have some time left if I'm not mistaken, so there's something else I can say. Therefore, speaking to some about the abolition of one commission in order to set up 200 new commissions, I think, is really not serious. It has been made very clear and it can be said once again that no commission is being set up instead of the previous one. For all the commissions and all the bodies which are competent on the basis of this new proposal already exist. They will only take over part of the competence of this matter under consideration. No organ is new; it will not be reestablished. And that's why he doesn't hold on to "if you don't want to save something, then he's gonna set up a commission." That's not true! No commission is being set up again. However, if one is hereby terminated, and only after a very long transitional period, i.e. after the term of office of this National Assembly, then this is to a greater extent a rationalisation. You're abolishing one organ so that existing other authorities can take over the task of this body. Well, more rationalization is that. Improvement. If we only look at this formal part, if we don't look at the content itself. And when someone also said that it is, however, that the existing law and the existing commission act preventively, that all those who advocate it are more interested and more interested in repression and so on. Yes, now let someone tell me in what provision of the existing anti-corruption law is a provision that speaks of the prevention of the fight against corruption. And you won't find him. [[...]] [[Note from the bench.]] I was talking about a definition that talks about prevention, not reports, integrity plans and so on. [[...]] That's something else. But prevention is something else. And when some of you spoke about the fact that this National Assembly adopted the Commission's report for 2006 and that this is proof that with all that was written in this report, the National Assembly agrees and that all of us who have confirmed this agree. It's two different things again. One report on what the Commission had done to prevent corruption in 2006 is one report, and what it was doing is written in the report and the report only talks about it. About the actual condition. And, of course, there is no reason for the National Assembly or for any of the Members to vote against this report. Because the report actually recorded what the Commission was really doing in 2006. Second, whether everything that has been written is beneficial or necessary. And, of course, to this treatment and to these moves in particular, I have always been very critical of the fact that these principled opinions have been written and published so much, and this is the second question. In doing so, I cannot agree with much of what the Commission has done, and many in the National Assembly disagreed and this has also been said in a very reasoned and well-founded manner. For this reason, I am convinced that the proposed law is what must be done, after all, to adopt this law. This also follows the decision of the Constitutional Court, which said in which part that law, which had actually been adopted in 2006, needed to be corrected. And given that we now have such a law in this direction, followed by the intention of the Constitutional Court, I do not think there is really any reasonable objection to this law in any way whatsoever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u106	Thank you very much. We have also filled in or completed the list of reported debaters with your debate. I ask the representative of the government, he wants a word or an opening. Thank you very much. [[...]] In view of the fact that we still have time to discuss, I ask the Members and Members present if they want to discuss it further. Depending on the will expressed, I will open the application procedure. Here you go. We have five registered Members and Members of Parliament. Member Aleš Gulič has the first word. Five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would only point to the thing that has now happened again that no new commission is being set up. Indeed, it is so - purely formal or on a semantic level. It's not like any of them are being established, but one of them is shutting down. It's something else. If you don't want something to work out, and if you don't want something to work out, you start a commission. This is an old saying, and obviously we have also been given innovation in this mandate, that even better it is if you dissipate the powers and burden those who are already burdened in one way or another, with new works, that they no longer perform what they are appointed to do, that they are given what they are assigned, and that they can do poorly also what they are assigned to do for a new one. Of course, I do not believe that the various instances to which these powers have been given so widely could do what is intended for them. In the Court of Auditors, however, given what we hear in the last days or even today, we read in all the newspapers, but there is a great question as to how much of their reserves are left. Given that they will still have to monitor, I don't know, the wealth situation of some 5,000 people, of course, accept all the changes and so on, so this will, of course, go primarily to the detriment of their work. However, why this Kosovo Commission is being abolished, of course, only since 1.1.2009, it is clear that all public opinion polls show that there are about 70% or more people in favour of the anti-corruption commission or the Kosovo Commission and, of course, the pre-election move that would have been terminated now would have been suicide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Ivan Grill to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Government! As I listen to this debate today, I have the feeling that many debaters have not actually read the content of the law well and are focusing more or less on the functioning of a commission called the Anti-Corruption Commission. Unfortunately, however, in this committee we can find that there is only a name here, but unfortunately there is no other way that this Commission does not actually have the power to oppose corruption with certain tools or powers. I have heard a very good comparison that this is essentially a mailbox where every citizen or citizen can raise some suspicion of corruption, and nothing more. Who, in fact, can resist corruption? I agree that corruption is a problem for every society, every country, even Slovenia; however, who can resist it. It must have at least three basic conditions and a sufficient amount of knowledge, competence and resources. And this commission was obviously set up in 2004 only for the purpose of being able to boast abroad or anywhere that we have this commission, but that we have the powers of this commission, unfortunately, we have not given this fundamental task that we are supposed to have to carry out. This gives me some sense that this commission was really set up with a fig in my pocket at the time, but not with some real purpose, so that it can also resist the corruption that is in our possession. Let us now ask ourselves, after these four years, what could this commission have done against corruption? The fact that it collects data from officials at the local level, from us Members, I think it's just some kind of data collection, analysis of this data, nothing more. At that time, each of us had to provide no idea how many lists of information about his property, his properties, his movements, and all that. These were data that could be obtained by the Commission in all those institutions where they have this data. If any of the officials of something that they would not really like to report, did they not report - can this commission also find out? And tell me, please, in case someone wants to hide something, some corruption actually does, and who's going to report it? I think it would be unjustifiable or ridiculous to expect. One parable of it. It's just like we expect a thief to go somewhere and report to the police. Therefore, the efficiency or functioning of the Commission, without giving it the powers it would need for its effective work, is unnecessary. With all due respect to the President of the Commission, to all co-workers, I believe that they want to work effectively, that they probably also have a lot of knowledge and everything, but if they do not have jurisdiction, all their work and effort is in vain. So I still believe that it is necessary to act in a different way against corruption. Here we have the organs, we have the resources, the latest events show that knowledge in Slovenia in this area is also sufficient, although there was a lot of effort and resources to be invested here. However, corruption can only be effectively pursued by the prosecution, the police and those who also have sufficient knowledge for these types of crime. Only this is the right and only way to successfully deal with corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Member Franz Žnidaršič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u111	Thank you very much, chairman. I would like to comment on the solutions in this bill, which speak of the prohibition of gainful activity, for example, for Members, because this permission to work for an additional 8 hours a week is reserved only for the highest educated, of course only in the field of scientific research, teaching, artistic and similar work, which I find to be discriminatory of course to all other Members who could or should, due to the continued training and professional knowledge of their field, maintain contact with their profession or profession if they wish to enter the labour market equally and competitively after the end of their term. For example, I am thinking about doctors, veterinarians, agronomists and all those professions that require opposite education, following professions, not only in theory, but also in practice and in manual skills, in many cases, when it comes to surgeons or something like that; however, they should be excluded from their profession for four or more years if they are subsequently elected, because of these prohibitions, making it virtually impossible for them to return to their work after the end of their term. Even more so, when it comes to health care, it would be even dangerous for someone to get involved immediately after the end of his term of office, because his knowledge would undoubtedly be out of date and cannot be compensated in a very short time. In this sense, I think that it would indicate such a solution if the law were to be adopted at all, to correct in this sense, once again, the restrictions on authorisation, to maintain contact with one's field or professional work, for example, when it comes to Members. I am not speaking for myself, which after the end of my term I will certainly be able to retire with over 41 years of work, but it is all those who will find themselves substantially younger in the same situation and who will undoubtedly have great problems if they want to return to their profession. With regard to the burdens of the Court of Auditors, I think that there is a tendency in the sense that the Court of Auditors is obviously very burdensome in terms of the personnel and resources available to it, and it is difficult to monitor the use of public funds. In doing so, it reveals sufficient reasons to believe that there is too much corruption in our country, and I think that imposing such obligations as this law provides for on the Court of Auditors is actually a pressure in this direction to put the Court of Auditors on the ground with those things that are less important and to leave the areas of control of the use of public finances to a substantially greater extent at individual ministries and also elsewhere in the country. And in this sense, I think that these solutions are extremely unacceptable, malicious, bad and will not be supported. In my view, once again, I think that this attempt to intervene so distorted in such a law at the expense of the Constitutional Court's decision is indeed a shame, because the Constitutional Court has not stated that the sea responsible for this area must be established, it says that it would be unconstitutional if there is no independent institution, but it will not, except for the Court of Auditors, in a very small part of the obligations that exist within the proposal and the resolution of the law. And in this sense, it is sad that we have this in front of us, and we will not be able to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u112	Thank you very much. But to the word I call on the apostle Dusan Kumra. Here you are.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. For starters, I'd say to all those who say that nothing changes, we don't create anything new, but then why do we even adopt the law? [[...]] Then it may be possible by law, which has only one or two articles imposed on certain authorities, on the commissions to, of course, take over the declaration of property or, as this is a matter of incompatibilities of functions, to take over in particular. However, given that I have been indirectly taken a number of points, I would like to say that I today, in my position as a member of the Group, did not link the intention of abolishing this Kosovo Commission to the decision of the Constitutional Court. Not in one sentence! And if you're going to read the tape, and I haven't done much of the work of this committee. It was only my intention that now was the opportunity to bring the matter that we had done in 2006 when we had abolished this independent commission so that, of course, now that the Constitutional Court had repealed the article, it could be brought back into this law. So it's not a legal, legal or legal matter, it's a purely political decision. And I answer you all that the previous law, which was in force until 2006, was not constitutionally disputed. It was a political decision, a political strategy to do something different, even though this commission only worked for two years and we were at some stage of an experiment. That's why it's not just demagogy, it's really misleading the public. After two years of functioning, we've already shut down the system. And what do I think of these numerous commissions that will now check the incompatibility of functions? Today, I say that all these more than 5,000 officials or public function holders will not be dealt with on the basis of the same criteria and criteria. I do not believe that the Republican Election Commission and one electoral commission of one municipality, which has 300 inhabitants, will deal with the same criteria and will eventually find that my function, which I am currently performing, is compatible, incompatible with what I am or am not doing. I don't think the same criteria and criteria will apply here. There will be a strong involvement of policy at local level, at regional level and possibly elsewhere. And when it comes to abuses, as one of the last speakers has said, I would warn you when you talk about abuses to the public by this commission, the Kosovo Commission, I would warn you that the legal high authorities, from which confidential information has been leaking in the last two or three months, are either in pre-command or criminal proceedings. And I'm asking the current executive, asking this coalition what you're going to do to stop it. You've done nothing so far, you're doing "fair" agreements with those who are already condemned in these stories and, of course, you're sweeping things under carpets. But I'm asking you what you're going to do with it if you're talking about abuse, but you're dealing with what you're doing. And lastly, when the data are compared, I would have warned, and three times I asked the Justice Minister and the Minister of Public Administration, in 2006, there were epilogues on corruption and clienteleism in the courts - four cases. So there is also some big positive statistics, although those who respond critically to the main opinions of the Kosovo Commission - at least there is something good in these 260 cases for the year before, at least one signal is that somewhere where smoke is, there is fire. And so the authorized authorities could react to this, just as they need to react, but obviously there's a filter somewhere, a sieve, where only white flour and nothing else falls through, which is very narrow, thin and things stop there.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Milan M. Cwickl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u115	Thank you very much. You were here today, especially with colleagues from the coalition, speaking very abstractly, but in the end someone took the point. He said that we would have good authorities to prosecute corruption if these authorities had knowledge, competences and resources. First of all, you have to explain to me if you think that Mr Kos's anti-corruption commission is not doing well, or if the breakdown of this knowledge, these 18 people, will increase the skills of 200 and more institutions in terms of the first knowledge criterion. Probably not. Second of all, jurisdiction. The most fundamental feature of the law that we are enacting today is that it has 50% or half fewer articles than the existing law. The existing law has 56 articles, which is 28. Why is that necessary? This is necessary in order to reduce the powers of these committees. And then resources. Slovenia has limited public funding. Instead of applying the basic principle of economies of scale, we set up 200 commissions, giving the Court of Auditors an additional task when this Court of Auditors fails to receive an appropriate response from the Government in its existing tasks, we will now put the Court of Auditors into a task that is not even constitutional. Let's be concrete. Tell me which commission will adopt the following principled opinion. In Slovenia we have a former development fund. This development fund has a director. This director wanted 150,000 euros in credit. Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister of the Government appointed a Supervisory Board through the Government for this company, and this Supervisory Board approved 150 000 euros of credit to this Director. When we found out, we were alerted to that. The Anti-Corruption Commission issued opinion No 117, where it stated that the conduct of the responsible persons in the company which granted credit to the Director of that company at an interest rate significantly lower than those granted by banks or other related institutions for the same or similar purpose for the same purpose. This opinion was delivered. Because of the opposition's pressure, this opinion has resulted in the return of this loan by Director Rozič. Mr President of the Supervisory Board, Mr Pirkmajer has sunk his ashes and, of course, Mr Minister of Finance has said that this is a wrong act. In 200 commissions, tell me who in the municipality of "X" will issue an opinion that the fact that the control board of the municipal company "Y" gave the mayor a low-interest housing loan was a corrupt act?Oh, my God! Who's gonna find out? As you, of course, believe that this principled opinion should not be in the Slovenian legal system. Therefore, Members of the ruling coalition, and above all the government, if you are in good governance, then this commission should be strengthened. You have a case for this at European level. Something is the European Court of Auditors, and something is OLAF, the Anti-Fraud Office, which also issues such opinions. And these two bodies are jointly persecuted by the European Commissioners, the European Members and other European officials. And tell me who in Slovenia is going to persecute the officials if you are going to be the one commission that has issued one hundred and twenty principal opinions and because of these one hundred and twenty principle opinions, it hurts the government's work of this commission. And it's right to hurt you. But this pressure exerted by the anti-corruption commission is the right pressure to create on officials, so these officials don't lend themselves credits that they said, "You know what, I took 150,000 euros of credit because I didn't want to be too fond of one bank or another." Because at one bank or another, he'd take that kind of credit. Please! A simple corrupt act, prevented by the anti-corruption commission and it will be full if you have 200 commissions. I'm against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u116	Thank you very much. During his application, he also made a comment by his colleague Kovacič, who was prevented by the voting device from joining the debate for five minutes. Are any of the Members present opposed to giving Comrade Kovacic five minutes to discuss? It's an exception. Nobody. Comrade Kovacich, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I'm going to be very short, and I'm going to spend at most one-fifth of that time. Again, there was talk of principled opinions. The word "principal opinion" itself says that a principled opinion can only refer to some general principled issues and these principled opinions must not determine which event or which person is involved. This is the basis of a legal order allowing, within the framework of the competence of this anti-corruption commission, the provision of principled opinions. And if the principle of opinion refers to a specific event and to dealing with a specific person, this is no longer a principled opinion within the competence of this Commission. And that's what I'm talking about. And everything else is a hoax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Given that I will conclude the debate, Comrade Squeakl, I will only give you a procedural proposal, nothing else.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u119	My procedural proposal that it might be good to do a new round because we discussed here in the final round, after we allowed Mr Kovacic, after the obvious device did not work for him to talk about something that should be replicated, but I cannot replicate. My procedural proposal is to make another round.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u120	I would love to do that, but you know for yourself that this simple practice of the National Assembly prohibits me. It was a college deal, and I'll stick to it, regardless of my personal position. When I'm Vice President, I have to stick to the rules of the games you set. Thank you very much. As a matter of fact, I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, that is at 2 p.m. and 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u121	Dear Members and honourable Members! Before us is the final part of today’s meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. I ask Members and Members, in good practice, to verify the functioning of their voting devices. We continue with the end of agenda item 17 - discusses the Proposal for a Decision amending the Rules on criteria and conditions for the use of the funds of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We move on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia agrees to amend the Rules of Procedure on the criteria and conditions for the use of the funds of the Fund for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia of 21.11.2007. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 60 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - discusses the Proposal for a Decision on Consent to Supplement the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia gives its consent to the Supplement to the Rules of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia of 21.11.2007. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 62 votes in favour, none against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda - the proposal for a decision on the amount of funds belonging to each political party from the State budget in 2008. We will vote on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 66 votes in favour, 2 against the proposal. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 15th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on restrictions and prohibitions for holders of public functions, within the framework of the regular procedure. We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on restrictions and prohibitions on public function holders is suitable for further consideration. I am opening the application procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go, please. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We will not support the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa. The reasons for this, I think, have been given enough in the debate itself, both in the presentation of the position and then later. The government is trying with this law, I will say, a poorly transparent issue of corruption to make it completely untransparent and we simply cannot agree on such things. If I start, as has been said several times in the hearing, the fight against corruption began in 2004, when this government came to power, I could say, with the main theme of the three K's: how it will fight, how it will prevent and stop corruption in our country. Throughout the entire mandate, given that the mandate is coming to an end, the government is trying to make the area of corruption completely opaque, or I will say, in the terms "transparent" where it "feeds". We cannot agree to such a game by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in a group of unrelated Members of Parliament, Lipa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u123	Thank you very much. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will be given by Aleš Gulič, a fellow Member of Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u124	Dear President! Dear fellows and fellows! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. There's more than one reason. One important thing is that this will significantly reduce the prevention of corruption: the dispersion of powers on various bodies in different parts of Slovenia, the burden of the Court of Auditors, and all of this convinces us that the fight against corruption will be much worse than it has been before. At the same time, of course, we do not agree to a three-year game to try to eliminate the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption or its President by any such law proposed by the Government concerning corruption or the fight against corruption. There are other things to find, and above all, it is questionable that the Commission has so far withdrawn from 1.1.2009. It is said that in a year you will talk about how the next Government has abolished, and this is essentially purely subjugation and setting up mines and other harmful fighting assets for the future government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u125	Thank you very much, too, and I invite Member Dimitri Kovacic to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. We will support the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We believe that this is a law that is more transparent, more professional and even more independent in dealing with a problem that has had quite a number of problems in recent years. We believe that the Court of Auditors, which, for the most part, assumes the tasks of the current Anti-Corruption Commission, is, by its very nature or purpose, a body that will certainly do these tasks more professionally, which will be more independent, and from this point of view, trust in its work in the public will be better than it has been so far. Therefore, we do not see any reservations that this law would not be adopted. For the law, which, in this way, follows the intention of the Constitutional Court, which was defined until the adopted law of 2006 shows that the lawmaker is going and, of course, we, if we adopt this law, are going in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? No, no, no. I am also opening a procedure for applying for an explanation of vote on my own behalf. Here you go, please. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u128	The proposal for a law is not more professional than the existing law because the proposal for a law delineates powers. Instead of the sixty-six articles that clearly set out what the anti-corruption commission is doing, this law has twenty-eight articles and of the twenty-three articles, about one third of which institutions are expected to carry out what the anti-corruption commission is doing. Another time. This law is not only directed against Mr Kos, but against the entire professional service of the anti-corruption commission, which has issued one hundred and twenty principal opinions and, of course, these principle opinions clearly state how not to act in order to prevent and ensure the minimization of corruption. The ruling coalition will try to enforce its political will, but with this political will it will not diminish, but will increase the extent of corruption. Therefore, this law no longer gives institutions knowledge, no more powers, no more resources. We disintegrate resources, we reduce competences and we break knowledge from one institution into some two hundred and more institutions, where it is not even clear what one will do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I call on Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will also oppose the decision, which is positive, saying that the law is suitable for further consideration. I personally assess that the Government is working too hard to eliminate in any way an independent body concerned with preventing corruption in our country. Personally, I know that the Government has been working with that first law that fell in the Constitutional Court, that the Government has been working under budgets, when it simply has not provided financial resources, so that the anti-corruption commission can act as much as it can. [[...]] [[There's a group in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u131	Excuse me, please! Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to calm down. It's probably not in anybody's interest to stop this meeting for 10 to 15 minutes. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I believe, respected colleagues and colleagues, especially from the coalition, that these things hurt because they are real. I believe you know how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has worked and cut down financial resources for the Commission's action to prevent corruption. When one of the coalition members of the SDS said in the debate that the Commission had virtually no effect in three years - one of the effects is that Members of the SDS have been cut. This was also the effect of the Commission's work to prevent corruption, respectable colleagues and colleagues. Also, health corruption, which has been proven by the Commission to prevent corruption, was, in my opinion, a sufficiently eloquent indicator that one of the SDS ministers had to leave the Ministry of Health. These are positive results, which is why, if you have at least a little political hygiene, you cannot abolish such an independent body if your desire is real work and concern in preventing corruption. As has already been said, I cannot impose on your proposal, so I will oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I invite Member Franz Žnidaršič to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Your Honor! If I wanted to be evil, I would say that the government is unable to prepare a good marriage on this subject, or I would say that it does not know what it is doing, given what it has proposed, because it is very bad. But it's not like that. Unfortunately, the government knows what it is doing, and most of the coalition knows what it supports. It supports a bad law; a law that does not allow an independent institution in the country to maintain the coordination of the fight against corruption that we have so far, and seeks to dilute rules that allow corruption in that country to be controlled, controlled, controlled, reduced, alerted, analytically monitored and adopted proposals for regulation in all laws that concern this area, even indirectly, in a way that reduces the extent of corruption that is growing. The problem is also that the applicants refer to a decision of the Constitutional Court, which can only be agreed in the part that amends the repealed articles or parts of the law. However, from here on, there has been a lack of restraint in the direction of taking revenge on this decision of the Constitutional Court and the thinking of the Constitutional Court in principle to make such a law worse than the previous one. And because of this, of course, I certainly cannot support such a law and will not be able to continue any proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We can go to the vote. Procedural? The advantage is procedural. My friend Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u136	Mr. President-in-Office. If we have completed the presentation of the views of individuals, I would ask if you would allow me, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, a 45-minute suspension for consultation. Please. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u137	I think the question is Allow me, please. [[...]] I think the dilemma of some Members who have been exposed - colleague Lucky Friend are you yourself, with whom will you consult?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u138	With an emissary group, no. I have a right, a business, in accordance with Article 73. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u139	My friend Lucky Friend said he was going to consult himself, which means we're going to take a 30-minute break after explanation, do you mind taking a 45-minute break or do you want a 45-minute break? [[...]] Can I do 15? 30! Before the adjournment of the meeting, we will also have an explanation for the vote. I'm opening a new procedure for applying for an explanation. Here you go, please. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u140	Thank you once again for the statement, Mr President-in-Office. I myself believe that there is a very important law before us, especially for representatives of the government coalition, because this is one of the foundations that must be fulfilled in line with their pre-election promises in 2004. About why it takes another 30 minutes, given that they have already found out in the debate and have already announced their vote, it seems to me like a game with time, probably a game with votes - whether they will guarantee it or not. But still, let's try to be serious, unlike some. There were enough arguments in the debate, including arguments by those who still need time to think. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] - I'd really like some quiet if I could. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u141	Dear colleagues, please allow us to do the rest of the explanation for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u142	I would also like to thank my fellow Members and colleagues in Parliament for taking your advice into account. As I've already said, we have a very important marriage ahead of us. Corruption in this country is no joke, even if we take into account all the big words of the prime minister for this speaker, how he will continue to fight corruption and anything else in this country. Today, with this law - as I have already said - someone tampered with the articles has found that the provision of corruption in this country under this law is the responsibility of two hundred and thirty bodies. If this isn't blurry and intransparency, then I don't know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Comrade Dimitriy Kovačič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. I hope that the holiday which has been imposed by Mr Friend is not intended to be further dismantled; but, nevertheless, I will say in my name that I will support the law, because, as has been said many times, the activities carried out by the Anti-Corruption Commission. If this were to end, of course I'd be worried, too. This shall not be suspended, but shall be delegated to existing bodies, in particular the Court of Auditors. And why would we have two organs if we could have one that, according to the content, is expertly qualified to perform this task even better than it has been so far. And, of course, it's not about putting an end to something and establishing something else, but with rationalization, we're combining tasks into one organ and we're putting an end to what would be a further job because of it. That is why, of course, I will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Any other wishes? It's not. I'm opening a new procedure, please. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u146	Thank you very much. I certainly won't support the marriage. But it is true that if someone is concerned that someone has removed the Italian tablet, I can say that we will remove them even more and that we will fight for Slovenia and that we will remove both the Light and the Austrians and the Croats in the way that, unfortunately, this coalition cannot or does not. And one of these matters is this law. After all, the fact that control is given to the State Election Commission, municipal and provincial commissions - please, this is a complete nonsense. If nothing else, it doesn't make sense. I already said today I don't know how they're going to collect evidence. And if beef soup is collected as evidence, they will certainly have to return the plate containing the beef soup, and I don't know where they'll get the beef soup if the lunch is worth more than those few tolars or euros now after the new one. Well, I think the law we tabled in the Slovenian National Party was a good one. Short, precise and clear. The Constitutional Court, of course, rejected him because he had to be rejected. I think it's made a big mistake. They think very partially or one-layerly, which is even the characteristic of the Constitutional Court. But despite this, even this law, which the Government has passed, is not good for us, is not acceptable, and so once again, we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Can we get this over with? Thank you. My friend Lucky Friend, if I understood you earlier, you're changing your procedural proposal. Please, if you repeat it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u148	Your Honor! Ten minutes will do me good not to hold you back. It's Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u149	Good. So, since it is 2.45 p.m., we will continue the meeting at 2.55 p.m. due to a consultation within one of the parliamentary groups. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u150	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Continue with the suspension session and interrupt the 15th point. We're before the vote. Since the SNS Group has requested an interruption, I give the floor to the representative of the SNS for reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u151	Dear Presidents, we have consulted and sought positive elements of this law in the parliamentary group. Unfortunately, we must completely oppose him because there is not one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u152	Thank you. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 36. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated in a second reading to the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. This concludes this item on the agenda; of course, if you allow me. We can proceed. We broke off with item 15 or end with this item on the agenda. We are moving on to agenda 14 - this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Designation of Areas and on the Designation, Marking of Settlements, Streets and Buildings - a vote on amendments and a proposal for a law under third reading. At the 35th meeting of the assembly, the National Assembly held a debate on the amendments tabled, so that we continue our third consideration of the bill by deciding on the amendments tabled. In doing so, I inform you that we have also concluded our 35th session with explanations of the votes on the two amendments. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 17. If the amendment is adopted, the amendment under number two becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 56. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities to Article 17. We vote, the vote is on. There are 69 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 5. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendment adopted, the bill would not be harmonised. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. Check-in is on. Mr. Mogue, he's giving up. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, now we've seen cows make deals. The SDS has agreed with the representatives of both national groups to support their amendment, and this has happened that, at each appointment of the street, it will be necessary to ask the Italians and Hungary whether they agree. I do not know how it is possible for a coalition party to so neglect the interest of Slovenia and is ready to give up and grant such concessions to Croats, but also to Italians and Hungarians. I don't know what's back here? Maybe the province's legislation and the two votes needed to go into this kind of business. I think that in such matters one must ask what is the interest of the Slovenian people, what is the interest of the Slovenian state, but not what is the interest of individual political options. I understand that this is how they voted from the United List, the former, and the LDS or their scattered members, because they were more and more for others than for the Slovenians. I didn't expect that from this coalition. That's not what I'm talking about. At least I thought it was a coalition option for Slovenia. Now I'm wondering, who else is there for Slovenia, except for some of us in here, some of us in the National Assembly? One seems ready to sell everything to the Church, one is ready to sell everything to the Croats, one is ready to sell it to Hungary and one is ready to sell it to the Austrians. And after all - what will be left of Slovenia? Damn it! Various congregations with crazy ratings until they sell them to foreigners. That's the point, too. Unfortunately, but it seems that the fate of the Slovenian people is such that the Slovenian state is always sold at the official institutions and within the official representatives. And this, I can say, has been sold since 1849, when the introduction of the Slovenian language in Vojvodina Kranjska was replaced for a concession for the construction of the Danube-Trieste railway. It looks like we're just a nation. I'm sorry, and I'm ashamed, but you showed your true face. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u154	Thank you. I'm opening applications for explanations of vote on my own behalf. There's no sign-in. Mrs. Possonec, you've raised your hand, and you probably want to, but you haven't been able to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't think I need to explain my voice because everyone knows how I'm going to vote. However, it seems to me that Mr Jelinčič took advantage of the opportunity and had a hostile speech. It was an hate speech, I don't think it was meant to be here. Let him not worry because there are citizens like him living in that area, i.e. Slovenian citizens who love their country and do not harm it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u156	Thank you. We're voting on the law. There are 69 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 5. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro on cooperation in the defence area. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Cooperation in the Field of Security between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the French Republic. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. On the day-to-day basis, this is to be considered a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank for obligations under the Energy Efficiency Framework Loan. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother's work, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendments have been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I interrupt, explanation of vote on my own behalf. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u157	About 30 million euros a year ago, we were working on a rebalancing of the state budget. This law on the ratification of the Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Investment Bank is a law that increases the gross indebtedness of the State and increases those activities that could otherwise be in the state budget if the government were able to find a place in the state budget. It is clear, however, that this increases public spending. I called because I'm going to abstain from this marriage. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will hear from the European Commission on Monday that it should be much more restrictive in the area of public finances than envisaged in the 2008 programme. Today's vote here without discussion, without representatives of the government, and so on, proves that the Government cares little about what the European Commission will say to it on Monday. That's why I won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u158	Thank you. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 60 votes against 3. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY’S ORDER, ON VOLUNTARY VOLUNTARY MATTERS. Under this item, the assembly will consider six proposals of the Judicial Council for election to the judiciary. The Council of Justice submitted six proposals for the election of candidates and candidates for judicial office to the courts of District Courts and Judges at the District Court in Murska Sobota, Celje, Ljutomer and Slovenj Gradc. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the National Assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. There are no applications for discussion. We're moving on to decision-making. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Mrs Klavdija Zadravec Ščančar to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Murska Sobota. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 58 votes against 2. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Vladka Pelko to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Mojce Turinek to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Celje. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 5. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Boris Kolmanič as judge of the District Court in the District Court of Ljutomer. We're voting. 62 Members and Members present, 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Danice Sevšek to the District Court in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 4. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Finally, I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Vesna Rebernik Jamnik at the district court in the District Court in Slovenj Gradc. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 4. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft law on the participation of workers in profits. On Wednesday 27 February 2008, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. We are moving on to the debate on the proposed amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 6 which you received on the bench. I am opening an application for a debate on the amendment tabled. Here you go, Mr. Tarchoon. You have the floor. [[No, he's canceling.]] Mr. Contic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u159	Thank you very much. As we have already announced in the parliamentary group in the opening presentation, although we have some concerns, we have a slightly different opinion on employee participation in profits. Our proposal for the law that we have proposed, but unfortunately it has been rejected twice in this House in this mandate, had slightly more content, a little more rights. And also the obligation to share profits. We did not leave the division of profits simply to the judgements of the owners of capital, the judgements of the owners of enterprises, companies to decide whether or not they would share profits with those with whom they could make that profit, namely workers, give them a share of the profits or not. We also predicted a slightly higher percentage of profits, in addition to compulsory division. Our law has certainly been more suitable for those who want to participate in profit and whom we firmly believe in our parliamentary group, that they create new value and that they are also entitled to profit. The law, which is in procedure, the law proposed by the Government partially solves this matter. It's going in the right direction, it's going in the right direction, where we've drawn it. But this law will have to be changed in the future. Nor did we make amendments to this law, especially because the law is in line with the social partners, because the social partners have agreed to this text and because the social partners want us to adopt this law and to put it into force as soon as possible. If the law had been passed three years ago, workers would have already taken part in the profits, a part of the profits would have already been earned, and we have already estimated that this would have put the pressure on wage growth slightly lower than at this point. But it's better late than never. So, the law goes in the right direction, but it goes with too little steps and too little ambition and it will have to be changed in the future. As I said, in the Group of Social Democrats we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u160	Anyone else? I see another hand. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. But we will also support this amendment. I think it makes sense. For the first time since the 15 years of sitting here in this Parliament, we have received one law, which also sets workers a piece of that cake that gentlemen from those today so-called tycoon species cut themselves or bake themselves. I think it's about time this happened. Despite the fine words of the past, nothing has been done to this day. Perhaps the law in some segments is definitely incomplete and will have to be repaired somewhere else. Nevertheless, the law is good, for the purpose is he who has defined this law. I must say, after a long time, something happened when people could actually get something in their hands. I'm sure some people will find this difficult. But I think they're gonna have to give something. As far as the amendment is concerned, it makes sense to delete that balance sheet profit in brackets. Because this hesitation could also lead to some legal formulations that could rob certain people of the possibility of sharing that profit. One more time. And the amendment and the marriage will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u162	Thank you. Mrs. Zginer Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Allow me, on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Lipa, to explain my vote, and I will say to the whole event related to the Law on the Participation of Workers in Profit. It's not true this marriage is our first time. That's not true. Such a law has only been introduced twice into the parliamentary procedure in this mandate. He has been invested twice in the Committee on the Economy, on the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons and has fallen twice for this law. Why? Because it was simply not filed by the government or by a coalition. In 2005, we could have adopted a better law than the one we are going to adopt today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u164	Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, the debate is about an amendment. Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u165	Thank you very much. But from what I understand, my fellow Members spoke before me in general about the law. So allow me to add an assessment myself or to make an assessment of the whole event, which, of course, includes an amendment, without question. And if you want, I'd like to know if you want an amendment, and if you want an amendment, the workers will actually be entitled to profit in companies. I can hardly believe it. Representatives or members of the administration will also be entitled. I believe that even in Paloma, although there is no need for members of the board to be entitled to share profits, and workers would be entitled to do so! But under this law, I believe under this law, they will not experience or await this. Because this law gives you a choice. But not to the workers! Owners of companies! This law gives you a choice. All those laws introduced in 2005, 2006 and rejected by the Government gave workers a real opportunity or justified workers to be entitled to share profits in a particular company. But as has already been said, twice in the past this government has failed so much wisdom or so much responsibility to workers, those workers with the lowest wages, to say, "Yes." Just before the elections, it may well be heard that - I will say in particular and I believe - the members of the board will in particular be entitled to share the profits.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u166	Thank you. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I think that some of the interpretations of what we are adopting by this law and how, in fact, we are completely depressed. Since 1991, it has been possible for such a law to be passed by any coalition that managed that country and had the opportunity to do so. This could have happened in 1995 and 1997, 2001 and 2003, and neither coalition then proposed or adopted such a law. All those coalitions had previously been much more involved in how the first and second phases of privatisation would be done, and we know exactly how this was done. Virtually all those who could participate in those phases were completely excluded. This coalition is actually the first to systematically embark on this project, if I may say so. It is the first to be coordinated with the social partners and is the first to be based on this agreement of the social partners [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u168	Mr. Tanko, you too [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u169	Yeah. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u170	Amendment to Article 6. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u171	It's as good as the rest of us, no. If the first case was made, then I can end up like the others. And I think it is the adoption of this law in this part that will allow the workers to participate in the process of making profit by now. It is a pity, in fact, as I have said, that this has not happened long ago and all previous coalitions have dealt mainly with this, including how managers will share dividends and not employ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u172	Thank you. Once again, I would like to point out that we are in the debate on the amendment to Article 6. We are not even in explanation of vote before the vote on this amendment and not even in explaining the vote on the full vote on the law. Please. There is no need for a general debate to be repeated in this room in the fifth place. Mr. Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposed amendment because the amendment eliminates the possibility of no mistakes or misunderstandings about what is being shared. We are of the opinion that it is right that the law clearly states that there is a share of the balance sheet profit because there has been a mistake here, this rounding was again mentioned because there is a difference between net profit and balance-sheet profit, which we all probably know. And for the sake of clarity in this part of the marriage, we will support this amendment. And I'll tell you the position of the parliamentary group on the law itself later when you give it a chance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u174	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 6. There is no desire to explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, nor does it. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 1. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Services or the Government have not warned me that due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not be harmonised. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I open applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr. Zagorac, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members of Parliament, Lipa, we will support the bill. We will support it because it is probably the first law in this area to receive sufficient support simply because it has been prepared by the Government and the government coalition. In this mandate we had at least two, I'm sorry, three such laws, which in some parts dealt better with the problem of employee participation in profit. The question we can ask ourselves is, who is the one who creates the profits of a particular company? In the first place, workers work in every company. This law allows - while withdrawing procurators like those who would participate in the sharing of this profit, it still retains the administration. But we must not forget one thing - the management of each company gets meetings, stimulations and other things, workers don't get it. The board drives expensive cars, has paid petrol by the company. Let's just put it off because it's incompetent, but let's put it back as an advisor to the director, because it's incompetent, but it's still getting a session, 10,000 euros in wages, and the worker's only 600. Is it right for administration representatives to be covered by such a law? I don't think so. And this is the first comment that this law will need to be corrected as soon as possible. Although I doubt that such a proposal will come from government Members, it seems to me that these people sitting on the boards of individual companies are not entitled to this division. When they say that the law is harmonised, it is true - but it is aligned with capital holders, it is not consistent with workers, the workers had one another's desires. They may have exceeded the wishes of the coalition, but they had other desires. It was fully coordinated only with capital holders. The full requirements of the workers were slightly higher and were not fully respected. Whoever claims otherwise will be deceiving. We will support this law in the parliamentary group, better than nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u176	Thank you. Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u177	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will be delighted to support such a law that follows good practices in other developed countries, although it is a bit late, but better today than in some uncertain future. Unfortunately, workers have been deprived of this title in these tens and more years, but the deal will certainly be better. We believe that this law will further accelerate the good economic results. Even though we have not known such incentives and workers' participation in profits so far, the results in the economy are very good, excellent; but, as has already been said, we expect this to further accelerate economic growth and good results. For happy workers, those who know for themselves what they are working for, not only for their wages, but also for their results, are likely to be even more stimulated or more confident, and will contribute even more to good results. The basis for our support for this law is that in our party, in our parliamentary group, we are well aware that not only does capital contribute to the results with its financial contribution, with its management, but that they are also committed to good results in the company. In fact, employees are those capital, those assets of the company, companies that cannot be created from anything that cannot be bought, but that which needs to be earned, must be properly trained and motivated to work. And with such an approach, when workers participate in profit, they will also be able to contribute even more to the company's good business. We think the marriage is good, so, as I said in the introduction, we will also support it. Unfortunately it comes a little later, a lot of opportunities in Slovenia have been to adopt this law, one way or another, but apparently this government is the first one to gather enough energy, enough power to bring the law into line with the social partners, with all the social partners, and as such the law is actually acceptable to all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u178	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. The law is certainly comparable to such legislation in most European countries, which is why in the New Slovenia Group we believe that the law is good, that it is also good from this point of view, because elephants on a voluntary basis, there was much talk, why only now the law or laws were similar in the National Assembly. I must also mention that this law is the first law to be harmonised between the social partners; it is said that both employers and employees have agreed on the content of the law, which is very important. As a result, this law will also be able to live in practice. We, too, in the New Slovenia Group, were initially disturbed by the fact that some of us should be involved in this profit, for which we thought we were not entitled, and this is also now introduced into the law, it is said that a member of the management, the procurator and the executive director are not entitled to share the profits, so that we are also pleased and consider the proposed content of the law a good passenger for both employers and employees. If the law comes to life as soon as possible in practice, we can also say that this is one of the measures taken by these governments to reduce social differences in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u180	Thank you. Mrs. Possonec. I'm sorry. He's quitting. Mr. Weber. Not at all. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr. Gantar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support the Employee Participation Act. Although I personally believe that all those who have individual contracts in companies should be excluded from this law, because these contracts should regulate all matters relating to their relations with these companies, but this is not a reservation that would prevent me from supporting this law. But I would also say that maybe you don't have to knock so much on your chest about the adoption of this law, who did something, which the government didn't do anything. I would have said, however, on the basis of experience - some of them, good, bad - that the situation in Slovenia was such and different and that the economic situation in Slovenia in the 1990s was such that it was necessary to work hard and fight that Slovenian companies could even generate profits and that they developed so that incomes and incomes in companies grew and that we eventually came to a situation and situation where we could have such a law and when we could also thus stimulate all workers and all employees to actually participate in the creation of further and private and social wealth. So, please, the elections aren't here yet. Let us be aware that every government must do what time requires of it, but not only boast about what it can and can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u182	Thank you. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that. My purpose, just a few moments ago, was not to give an explanation for my voice. I would just like to point out that, unfortunately, there is an increasing amount of commotion within Members and Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that the law, which is before us with a very beautiful name, unfortunately does not follow all of these goals, which some speakers from the first and not least almost the last talked about, about joy, enthusiasm, the acceleration of economic growth. Ladies and gentlemen, those who have read this law must be aware that the law is based on the basic principle of volunteering, i.e. the capital owner, whether the profits will be shared with workers or not. So talking about how this is something wonderful for this country is, of course, throwing sand in the eyes of employees. I believe that the time of the so-called national elections is approaching, where it is very nice to participate in television debates and to say, "From now on, you will have a better Slovenia, today and tomorrow." However, in the context of its content, the law does not carry an organisational structure on the basis of a law on companies or a law on public companies, i.e. the qualification of the company, the status form, least of all a company where the division of profits is of course very simple, to a society with limited liability, a command company, a company with unlimited subsidiary responsibility and so on. In short, marriage does not bring all that you spoke. It allows, however, to the extent that a friendly capital owner is found to receive the so-called profit to the same extent, but to the same extent on the basis of numericality, i.e. the number of employees, but not of course of remuneration, both those who are on individual contracts and the mass of employees. Let us not forget, however, the honourable Members and Members, before you give so much credit for something self-evident, how much individual contracts are only in companies where the country has a majority share. This is what you have in the 2006 Lotus Notes computer network to my question of the government's reply. Let's be realistic. Marriage is to be supported, but it's not to be brought under any other heading. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u184	Thank you. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Kindergarten Act. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. First, we move on to Article 9, where we have four amendments. The first and second amendments are the same, proposed by the SD Group of Members and by the same Article 9 Group of Members. We vote on this amendment. Members and Members present, 27 votes against 41. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 9. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 4 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 36. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 9. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to Article 14, where we also have four amendments. We will first decide on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 14. If this amendment is adopted, amendments under numbers 2, 3 and 4 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 42. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 14. If this amendment is adopted, amendments 3 and 4 will become irrelevant. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Article 16 under Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 16 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 41. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 14. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 4 becomes irrelevant. The amendment is also substantively linked to the amendments of the same applicants to Article 16 under Article 2 and Article 17 under Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 16 shall become irrelevant under Article 2 and Article 17 under Article 1. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 2. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This made the fourth amendment irrelevant. Now we move on to Article 16, where we have three amendments. Since the first one is irrelevant, we are moving on to the second amendment. We decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 16. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Article 17 under Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 17 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. There are 64 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. (For the vote was 51.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. The third amendment is irrelevant. We're moving to Article 17, where we have two amendments. We turn first to the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 17. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. (For the vote was 51.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now deciding on the amendment of the SNS Group to Article 17. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 40. (The vote was 20.)(against 40.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the 31st Article, where we have one amendment, namely the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to the 31st Article. So we decide on this amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. (For the vote was 51.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments, and this concludes my second reading of the bill. I note that the Second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 31, 17, 16 and 9 of the amended Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this article? No, no, no. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not have been harmonised. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. The vote on the law is ongoing. There are 69 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. In line with Mr Aleš Gulič's proposal, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to Mr Aleš Gulič's question on measures to ensure the implementation of the constitutional principle of equality before the law in the pursuit of economic crime. Explanation. Mr. Gulic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u185	Dear fellows and fellows! Dear President! I proposed a debate on an extended response because yesterday Mr President of the Government did not answer this question sufficiently. Although I know that time did not have much, the answer of the Prime Minister and ministers is limited and the question is not so simple. Given that the story is still going on and that it is not over, that new questions are always being asked, including the question of how many things are leaking to the public in relation to these procedures, I think it would be good if the President of the Government were to answer this more broadly. On the other hand, I find it rather unseemly that, in the entire mandate, this requirement of any of the Members has not been met. At the end of the Institute in this National Assembly, we have to use them, not always to avoid the government, or the President of the Government or individual ministers, the extended response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u186	Thank you. There are no other hands. We're voting. The vote on the proposal by Mr Aleš Gulic for a debate is under way. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 42. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Swickl will decide on the next proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša, to the question of mag. Milan M. Szvikla, regarding respect for public financial legislation and decisions of the Court of Auditors. Explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u187	The debate on this issue is necessary; it is necessary because we cannot get into a situation where the Government decides on its own, which laws it will respect and whose laws it will not respect. The law is in force and, as long as the law is in force, it must be respected, either in the case of Minister Podobnik or in the case of the hospital director or in the case of the director of Vodvod- Channeling in Ljubljana. The one who is challenged here is a politician. The Prime Minister, who is the chairman of the body in which the Minister, who has undoubtedly violated the obligation of a good master, is sitting. It is not true what the President of the Government said yesterday that there were no such cases in the history of this country. In the history of this country, cases have been mentioned earlier, but these cases, of course, assume that all people are equal before the law. And Minister Podobnik, director of VO-KE, director of the General Hospital in Slovenj Gradec, are identical before the law. And if they have breached the obligation of good governance, then the process of replacing them must be initiated. The procedure shall be initiated in a very clear manner. The National Assembly was informed. The President of Tsukati did not assess the need to inform the Commission on Election and Mandate, but that this will need to be discussed at the Commission on Public Finance Supervision. The Commission has debated and called on the President of the Government, as the Court of Auditors has called on him to decide whether it is right in the Government to have a minister who does not respect the laws. Once the President of the Government has decided, even on the basis of today's opinion by the Court of Auditors, that it is fully known what he must do, to propose to the National Assembly the replacement of Minister Podobnik, then we will be able to decide on the next step in the National Assembly. This one's gonna be political. Therefore, Members and Members, in order to be able to discuss whether the Government itself determines which laws it will respect, I propose a public debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u188	Thank you. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 41. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mir Petk, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to Mr Mir Petk's question on the functioning of the Advisory and Management Society. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 22. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. In line with Mrs Majda Širca's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitri Rupl, to Mrs Majda Širca's question on diplomatic practice. Mrs. Shirca, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u189	I did not want only yesterday, as I suggested, to discuss Mr Rupl's reply to my question, but this was what the Foreign Minister, Mr Rupel himself, wanted when he said, "If you want to challenge Slovenian foreign policy, deal with me, argue with us, deal with us, deal with official documents, not with bricks that some evil man has taken to some place where we shouldn't be. Thank you very much." This ended its comprehensive implementation around the question of the consequences for the foreign ministry or Slovenia of the publication of a document or record between representatives of the foreign ministry and senior officials of the U.S. administration. The Minister wants these discussions, and I also assume that an internal investigation at his ministry will be completed quite soon. In view of the fact that we still have additional dimensions, I believe that it is more than opportunistically necessary for us to meet this issue in the National Assembly, as the Minister wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u190	Thank you. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 38. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Majde Potrat will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education and Sport Dr Milan Zver to the question of mags. Majde Potrato on taking account of students' achievements in changing curricula. Mrs. Potrata, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Surely it was not possible in what you read to see all that my question contained. And given that the National Assembly devoted its special point to the 2003 TIMMS survey in April 2005, I am convinced that the proposal to discuss the results or achievements of students in other international research will have the same willingness to talk about what our students can do, and how the policy also sees what else should be done to ensure that education achieves better goals, so that knowledge as a basis for development can play the full role that we want to discuss when we paint the future. I am sure that this proposal will be supported. In view of the fact that it was possible to read in the public a number of positions of expertise both on achievements in various international research and, of course, on the direction in which the redesigned curricula should go and on what we have done in redesigning the curricula, on the basis of the urgency with which they were adopted and the voting with which they were adopted, we could do better in the future so that the entire population would not be experimental rabbits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u192	Thank you. In your own name, Mr. Squeakle, please explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u193	I will support the proposal of the Member, colleague Majda Potrat, and I hope that you will also support it. I have previously consciously supported Mr Petk's proposal to discuss Mr Bayuk's failure to respond. Because I think we Members have the right to discuss these issues if we are dissatisfied. And since Mr Friday is unhappy with Mr Bayuk's response, it is right to discuss this. And I think it would be correct for the rest of you to be Members in this case, as it would have been earlier in the case of colleague Majda Širc, but support the proposals when it comes to a clear violation of the laws, even the Constitution in the previous case, or when it comes to ambiguities as explained by colleague Potrate in the failure of Minister Beast. It is a matter of adequate education for our children and these children are not divided into positions or opposition. It would therefore be appropriate to support this debate. I'll back her up myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-29-SDZ4-Redna-36.ana.u194	Thank you. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 39. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. In line with Mrs Majda Širca's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister for Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, to Mrs Majda Širca's question on RTV contributions. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 39. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. Mr Srečko Friends' proposal that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, should answer his question, I cannot put to the vote because Dimitrij Rupel has not answered and has only found that he is not responsible for the question. I therefore conclude this item on the agenda. I also conclude the 36th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Members and Members, I would like to ask you to remove all materials from the Chamber for the preparation of the Chamber for activities related to the Presidency of the European Union. Thanks for understanding. Have a nice weekend.
