ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 41st meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Aleš Gulič, Eva Irgl, Bojan Kontic, Mag. Borut Saiovic, mag. Franz Gniedarsich. We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on Public Deposits, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for further explanation of the law. Mr. Mag. Signa Lavrich, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u2	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! Before you, the proposal for a law on public funds was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for a third hearing, in accordance with the decision of the National Assembly of 17.6.2008. As you know, the law has been born for almost two years, all ministries, the Community of municipalities of Slovenia, and several mayors, including individual public funds at state and municipal level, participated in the preparatory process. Cooperation has been constructive, we have taken many initiatives to solve the specific problems that municipalities and public funds face in their daily work. In doing so, we have made every effort to include all these solutions in the new law to the fullest extent possible. The already existing Public Funds Act 2000 has largely achieved its purpose. The unsupervised establishment of new public funds has stopped, business as one, accounting solutions have been introduced, the safety of public funds has increased. Since the adoption of this law in 2002, no public fund has entered into such financial difficulties that it should be remedied. Of course, there are still some problems in managing and managing public funds. About the purpose of the new law. The purpose of the new law is mainly to eliminate illogicality and to correct non-practical arrangements, to eliminate those that have proved to be in force in eight years. It is also necessary to harmonise this existing law with the new laws that have been passed. We are also introducing new financial incentives that have been established in the EU and we have not yet known them in Slovenia in 2000. However, there were changes so much that we were forced into a new marriage. The law thus specifies more precisely the types and scope of incentives that can be granted by public funds and thus introduces greater transparency in the business of public sector legal persons into Slovenia. The aim of the law is to enable public funds to acquire private and European resources and thus relieve public financial resources. In addition, the aim of the law is to remedy the arrangements which have proved to be reckless or impractical since the adoption of the applicable law and to harmonise the law on public funds with subsequent laws. When writing a new law on public funds, we followed the principle of maintaining the regime that has been in place in Slovenian practice in these years, if it is possible to implement it carefully. It is noteworthy, however, that the Law on Public Funds is a status law. The law lays down minimum criteria to be met by a legal person in order to act as a public fund. Nevertheless, much of the debate in the second reading of the Law on Public Funds was devoted to the issue of the property of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. We must therefore reiterate that the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests is not a public fund, but is organised in the status form of a public institution. Therefore, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests is not subject at all to the Public Funds Act. However, the new Public Funds Act repeats the provisions of the current law on the rights of municipalities to land of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests to the extent defined by the Public Funds Act 2000. With regard to other issues relating to the status and property of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, the Government proposes to be resolved either by amending the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests established by the Fund or by adopting a law on the transfer of jurisdiction to the provinces under which the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests would cease and its assets and powers would be transferred to the provinces and municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I ask you to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u4	Dearly beloved, good morning and good day! In the framework of the proposed law on public funds, I must say that the position of the Lipa Group remains the same, so we are basically welcoming the law itself. I would, however, like to point out what has been repeatedly exposed to the content of the initiatives and questions put forward; firstly, the way of transparency and control. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is based on the establishment of the minimum criteria necessary for the management and operation of public funds on the one hand, and on the other, so much emphasis is placed on the acquisition of funds, both from private and from European sources, then once again I underline the dilemma when we put it forward during the past debate, namely, what will be the effectiveness of these or the extent to which these funds will be drawn. As of today, we are meeting funds both within the country, the potential landscapes or, lastly, the municipalities, that knowledge is an obstacle to the acquisition of so-called European funds in addition to the excessive administration - the lack of knowledge. This meets most of the Slovenian municipalities, thus meeting most of the state administration. And in the case of the adoption of this law, which I have no doubt will be adopted, where only the minimum criteria are laid down, which are truly minimal, then of course it makes sense to ask about the effectiveness of the law that is now and here before us. As regards the allowable way of partnership, i.e. the private sector project, let me point out once again that the country has been late in this area not only within the current government, but also in all past governments, so that this part is not developed. I would like to point out once again, at least in this introductory part, what we are most afraid of in the context of the Lip Group. On the one hand, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is trying to legislate individual material solutions or substantive solutions that are intended to be user-friendly, i.e. the country, the province or the municipality in the field of public funds, to reduce regulation at the declaration level and, on the other hand, the legislator would expect a positive effect by drawing on funds or obtaining private and European resources. So, according to our assessment, if we were to follow, truly follow, the proposal of the objective, as pursued by the law, then of course we should highlight the quality and facilitate administrative obstacles to the functioning of these institutions, i.e. in our case of public funds. Therefore, as long as we do not approach this kind of administrative reduction of obstacles, which remain on the basis of this law in the context of this action, I fear that the law will not meet all those objectives which are at some declaration level, I reiterate, sounding good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Starman has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice hello to you all! The current Law on Public Funds was created between 1996 and 1999 as a result of the uncontrolled establishment of constantly new and new state and municipal funds in which states and municipalities transferred public assets and decentralised and remote the management and management of public property from the executive and supervisory authorities. The law has undoubtedly achieved its purpose, but it needs to be updated after seven years. The law in force refers to specific articles of six other laws, which were later amended and contain some solutions that later laws have otherwise regulated. Above all, the financial functioning of public funds has been regulated. The number of public funds has also settled and the value of state funds has decreased to some more than €2 billion and the value of municipal funds to some more than €370 million. The basic objective of the law is to set minimum criteria to be met by a legal person in order to act as a public fund and to specify more precisely the types and extent of incentives that public funds can grant and thus introduce greater transparency in the public sector's business in Slovenia. The aim of the law is also to enable public funds to raise funds from private and European sources and thus to relieve public finances. In addition, the aim of the law is to remedy the arrangements which have proved to be reckless or impractical since the adoption of the applicable law and to harmonise the law on public funds with subsequent laws. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to government representatives. The Group of Social Democrats does not oppose this law. We only note that, as with many other laws, it took four years for this government to realize that there was something to be done in the marriage and now, just before the laborers, 5 minutes before 12 or rather, two minutes before 12, it comes with a law that could have been dealt with two years ago. At least, it's about time you woke up.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Friday, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we do not oppose the law that allows municipalities, provinces and the state to establish public funds. The law builds on existing legislation that has not been best prepared in the past. In this regard, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we point out the weaknesses of the law, which on the one hand sets a high price, which is at least EUR 10 million of earmarked assets for municipal funds, and the risk that in fact existing municipal public funds may be prevented from operating if within one year they could not be pooled into a public fund at the provincial level. As we know, we have no provinces at this time, and some are convinced that we will not create them in this mandate as well. According to the LDS, a better solution for the existence of municipal funds would be a solution in which it could be set up or operate with EUR 4 million of earmarked funds. Unfortunately, the Government has not taken into account the initiatives of some Members and the justifications and proposals, such as the Public Fund for the Small Economy of Goriška, Nova Gorica, which found that in 2008 only 16 municipalities and 7.6% of municipalities since 210, we know that there is an appropriate spending of more than €10 million. If we were to lower this required minimum for the municipal public fund, public funds could set up a lot more municipalities than is actually possible now. Since 67.7% of all municipalities have an adequate spending of 4 million euros or more, it is clear that such municipalities would not set up municipal public funds which are larger than the amount of the appropriate consumption of the municipality, as is applicable or as provided for in the current legislation. Unfortunately, the Government did not consider it necessary to listen to these comments. The law also stipulates that the province must provide at least EUR 30 million for the purpose of setting up a public fund. The Slovenian Community has warned the Government that some municipalities would like to pool their public funds, which do not meet the conditions for the continuation of work as public funds, at the provincial level. Since the provinces have not yet been established, exceptions are the municipal public funds for which the founders decide to merge them into a new public fund at the provincial level. In this case, the deadlines shall begin on the date of the establishment of the province. The law, however, allows a municipality which is the founder of a public fund and which does not have sufficient capital as referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to adopt a decision within one year of the implementation of this Act to join that public fund with the related municipal funds at the level of the province. In this case, the public fund shall continue to work, irrespective of the amount of its capital, and the period of one year to comply with this law shall begin to run from the date of the establishment of the provinces. It appears that this dictatorship allows the provincial funds to operate, although the landscapes in our local administration system are not yet there, the issue here is somewhat controversial. Of course, the question is whether the municipalities are able to agree within one year to unite at the province’s level. According to the LDS, it would be appropriate to extend the transitional period for public funds to the actual establishment of the province, unfortunately only one year of transitional period remains. Despite some of the concerns and shortcomings mentioned above, we will support the law at the LDS Club in particular because the law allows public funds to obtain funds from private and European resources and thus relieves public funding. In addition, the aim of the law is to correct the arrangements or arrangements which have proved to be reckless or impractical since the adoption of the applicable law and to harmonise the Law on Public Funds with subsequent laws. All of these are reasons not to oppose the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a law on public funds. The law brings greater transparency to the business of public sector legal persons and introduces the possibility of using new financial instruments and the possibility of involving private and European resources in projects of public interest. The draft law lays down the minimum criteria to be met by a legal person in order to act as a public fund. Among them is certainly the most important amount of capital to be made available to the fund. This is set at €30 million for state and provincial funds and €10 million for municipal funds. The amount of the minimum capital required is determined on the basis of a 15-year monitoring of the operation of public funds and the finding that smaller public funds are too expensive and therefore, despite the legal provision that they must retain their assets, they lose this property. In the New Slovenia Group, we also agree with the proposal for a law to specify the types and scope of incentives and thus introduce in Slovenia the incentives already in place in the European Union. In addition, the law introduces the possibility of obtaining private funds for the exercise of public interest, introduces provinces as potential founders of public funds, and lastly defines and lays down conditions for the termination, accession and transformation of public funds. In the New Slovenia Group, we are committed to updating all areas of legislation and therefore we believe that the proposal for a new law on public funds is well prepared. It takes account of developments in the area of new financial incentives and the public sector and increases transparency in the field of public finances; it removes the arrangements that have proved impractical or inadvertent in recent years. In our view, the proposal for a law on public funds is good and we will support it. In the New Slovenia Group, we will also support in the third reading the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups concerning the transfer of land from the Agricultural Land Fund to municipalities. The arrangements so far have been very illogical. The farm was the owner of the water protection area and the management of this land was regulated by the municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u14	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear Government Representative, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The current law on public funds, which was created in 1996-1999, largely achieved its purpose for which it was adopted. The financial operations of the public funds have settled and their number has settled, but the law has not been fully respected. The basic objective of the amendment is to set minimum criteria for legal persons to be able to operate as public funds and to define more precisely the types and scope of incentives that can be granted by public funds, thus placing greater transparency in the business of public sector legal persons in Slovenia. The aim of the law is also to enable the public funds to obtain funds from private and European sources and thus to relieve the public financial resources of the state budget. The law also lists the provinces as potential founders of public funds, solves the problem of the overemployment of ministers in the management of public funds that have been lost by the Director, leaves the provision that public funds are financed from the founder's budget, as it in principle acquires funds for work from surpluses of public fund expenditure. If the surplus is insufficient or insufficient, the founder shall provide the resources for the work from his budget. The law also introduces the possibility of obtaining private funds for the exercise of public interest in public funds, but private partners cannot buy shares in capital and thus manage or influence the business, business decisions of the public fund. There has been a lot of controversy on issues such as: whether the public fund can set up new legal entities, whether it can be the majority or only the minority owner of such legal persons, or whether it can receive funds from other sources and not only from the founder. It has turned out that opposition to the possibility of implementing partner projects in Slovenia would prevent more than 100 million European funds from being used. The law also summarises the basic requirements for the security and asset transfer of the public fund and credit risk management. The public fund may still grant subsidies, but only if it does not solicit the purposeful assets of the public fund or its capital. The law also solves the problem of the already established procedures for transferring agricultural land into the ownership of the fund to municipalities, so in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u16	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present. Modernising the Law on Public Funds, in view of the problems in the past and the inconsistencies that have been adopted in practice, is essential, but given the gravity of the problems, it would be expected that this would be a proposed amendment to the law earlier, not just after the expiry of the mandate. The tightening of the financial conditions for the establishment of public funds at all three expected levels is logical at first sight, but the question is whether municipal funds and future regional funds are the appropriate amount provided for by law. I think it's a little too harsh, but this will be demonstrated by practice in the coming years. What is interesting is that, for the second time in the last seven months, in the preparation of a proposal for a law, this law has happened to be prepared for the harm of local communities. Thus, in the basic proposal, the right or obligation of the Fund of Agricultural and Forest Areas of the Republic of Slovenia to transfer to municipalities or local communities unwalled buildings which, in some way or inadvertently, came into the property of the Fund of Agricultural Lands was conferred. Similarly, last December in the proposal for a law on the conclusion of denationalisation procedures. We have therefore welcomed the fact that the opposition has accepted or overlooked this mistake, although the solution has been corrected and their or her amendment proposal does not fully address this problem. As I said, the law is necessary, most solutions are appropriate, not all ideal, so that the law can be adopted and more amendments discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye, everyone. In the year 2000, or before the fund law was being prepared, the applicants identified the multiplicity of functions to be performed by the State and to be performed by the local communities, at the time, they had not given such intense thought to potential landscapes and, for the sake of this abundance, provided for the possibility of setting up institutions that specialize in individual tasks. Many local communities, as well as the state, took advantage of this opportunity, perhaps today with some time delay we can say that there was even something euphoria at the time, and perhaps there is more interest in this establishment. However, something good is likely to have been realized during this period. Nor does the proposer of this new bill deny this. Despite the euphoria, municipalities may have benefited from at least one benefit despite the hypertrophy of these newly established different funds, and probably for that reason a large number of fund-buildings at that time. In fact, the benefit in the sense that some of their needs, for which they did not have the resources in the budget, could be financed by loans they could borrow through these funds. Thus many apartments have been built in Slovenia and many social and housing problems have been solved. This is no longer necessary today because of a different mode of funding, and therefore this reason is no longer needed. In the meantime, many funds have proved to be insufficiently organised, even unnecessary, by starting to terminate or not work, and the drafter of today's law, which we are discussing, has assessed that this law of 2000 has allowed some good moves, that it has become out of date in the middle, that it no longer meets new requirements and that, among other things, it is inferential when we look at the law in the legislative and legal system. So he suggested that this law should be changed or that a new law should be adopted. In particular, the objectives or prospects of the proposer in this regard are to establish indisputable criteria for the establishment of different funds, while we in the Group of Members, while mainly supporting the law, believe that these criteria of error are set; an argument is also made, in particular that funds that do not have 10 million assets are unable to function. Empirical practice denies this claim every day and could list a whole range of such funds, which, although they do not have 10 million capital, operate properly and are able to finance their own activities, and also to carry out the activity for which they were established. This criterion of ten million seems more like a life-writing salon, bureaucratic and administrative. The second objective, or second objective, of the applicant, is to provide quality resources for the implementation of the activities. Partnership projects are poorly defined in the law, and they are likely to be subdued, so that we will simply be left to the future so that we can see what is really going on in this area. Whether these new funds will be able to draw better on European funds, we will also have to wait, because we do not already know them, either by the state or by some other entities that have this opportunity and obligation. A different way of doing business, more business-oriented, is foreseen in this bill, and it will certainly bring something good. We in the parliamentary group believe that one of the main objectives of eliminating fragmentation is to concentrate capital, funds to carry out individual tasks, and we estimate that some good funds, together with dirty water, will be thrown into the fence, which is one of the main weaknesses of this bill. Therefore, it may not be possible that all the votes of the DeSUS Group will be in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, government representatives! I'm not going to change the words and statements I said a few days ago. The Law on Public Funds has its purpose and purpose, and it is the same because we have already heard it, but some things are open and I have not been able to convince myself even today. As you know, it was for the Slovenian National Party and will be a problem for the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. The Secretary of State has just stated that the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests is not an advantage of the content of this law because it is an institution. However, it defines funds as public institutions, public funds, equity funds and limited liability companies. Another time. Interestingly, the proposal that the Government should draw up a law on the transfer of powers to the provinces or municipalities last year on the regulation of the status of the Agricultural Land Fund. But it's also interesting that this wasn't accepted. And what is most interesting is that the conclusion that the Government has accepted this - has drawn up a proposal that it has not been adopted, but that it is expected that the Fund will be abolished at one time and it would be reckless to ask for it, so the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests will be transformed into a public fund before liquidation. Who guarantees he'll be liquidated and when he'll be liquidated? Who and where does he guarantee that the property will be transferred to the congregations and to future provinces if they are? Nobody! It is interesting that Article 54, paragraph 4, states: "The Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests established by the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests continues its work as a public institution until the law we are talking about enter into force today." Then what? I'm serious about what happens next. Let's just say this law is going to be passed. It says "until entry" here. Then what's it gonna be? Will the automatic Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests then be destroyed and transferred to the municipalities and, of course, to the forests? Something stinks in here. It really smells. The founder shall be the State and the State transfer its property to the Fund. This fund, we know what it's doing with that property. We all know. They also sell or sell to someone who actually owns this land. I will not repeat that it is a typical example, the school case of the Trbovlje-Breeder Mine with huge surfaces. In the Slovenian National Party, it will be up to each other to decide, but because of the irregularity of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, because I know that something stinks here, I will not be in favour of this law. Once again, I really want to know why the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, as it is now a public institution, is among the funds, rename and transform into a public fund, until liquidation. Who's telling me it doesn't make sense? Why doesn't it make sense? Of course it makes sense. Or tell him he'll be liquidated in the morning and then it doesn't make sense! And don't talk because I know there's something hidden back here. What, we'll see. Amazingly, all that it says is true that this law will bring about something different and some different forms of funding so that it can relieve the country in some part. However, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests must become a public fund or be disposed of and - what would be the wisest - and transfer the assets to the municipality or to the provinces if they are established and then the image will be completely clear and clear. And with that, no one sells anything. As is happening today, as we have already requested in the Slovenian National Party that certain land which has been in the management of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests have been sold to foreigners. I think this evidence - if it isn't - will come out once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr. Drago Koren has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u22	Thank you, Chairman for your word. Good morning to the Members of Parliament, although it is almost ten o'clock. By the way, we were prenuptialized to fall asleep a little, that the law was adopted two minutes before 12 or 5 before 12. In this regard, I would say only that - many of the laws were proposed by Members themselves, if they considered it so urgent to adopt this law, I wonder why they did not propose it themselves. I will only say that I believe that the law is very good, that it is worthy of support, especially because it also allows public and private partnership in these funds, and above all I think it is important that both European funds and private funds can be drawn up and I am sure that these changes will bring a lot of good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u23	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u24	Thank you very much again. Well, marriage deals a lot with property. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Mr President, I don't have time anymore, so I'm afraid I have to stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We were very pleased when we received an answer from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to our question that the fund would be abolished and that the Government was seriously working on this, but if we look now at Article 54, we are not fully clear and would like the representative of the Government to answer me what the Fund will do after the implementation of this law. Indeed, the government has been warned that once these lands were transferred to the congregations, they would somehow allow for sustainable development. We know that the Fund of Agricultural Lands now has these lands, and it also has uneconomically and sometimes to the detriment of the country. Through cooperatives whose main owners are foreigners, of course, the strawed man usually is Slovene, because this must already be by law, land also sells to these cooperatives. We have also mentioned this in the question of the Member State; I have also written specific cases myself, and the fact is that this is happening. Secondly, a second model that is present is being set up by permission of the Fund to set up companies whose majority owner is again a foreigner and this foreigner allows these companies to recapitalise with incoming owners, co-owners who come to the land company. This land is later paid off. And to the alien the agricultural land remains, and this is in the area of Primorska, it is interesting that the border there is somewhere to Postojna. And I wonder whether the Italians are also deliberately lending favourable loans for capital and greater purchasing power to realize the so-called desire for the Rapal border. This is not the main reason that the Fund of Agricultural Lands should be abolished, but the Director is already obliged to monitor the legality of the business, and this belongs to his work circle and here is also his fault that this is permissible and that this is being carried out. The main reason is that we want it to be said today that this will be abolished, in order to allow the municipalities that are at the burden of the State to carry out the development programmes themselves within the territory they have, of course, today State authorities and in some ways to develop the infrastructure plan. We know that certain things can also be systematically used to build such facilities there as would be needed by the space and that the countries are on a number of occasions over these changes in deafness. The municipality will certainly be a better host in this area and, as has already been said, will also ensure the sustainable development of the municipalities. Therefore, the abolition of the Fund of Agricultural Lands is considered necessary by the Slovenian National Party and should be immediate after the entry into force of this Act, so the Government replied. If this is about the duplicity of the government in the response we have received, then again today we will be witnessing that we will allow an open niche to trade and I say that there is a black market here. If, in fact, any person who sees benefits is involved in these transactions, I also allow for the possibility that you have written in article 54 on purpose, as you have written down. In short, I want an answer from a government representative, what about this article or the fourth point of this article? And what will the Fund actually do after this law has been enforced? What's his legal status? If you are principled and principled, once again, then you will terminate this fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. The Law on Public Funds, I don't think it really solves what is most evident and most necessary to solve. In fact, the government had already transferred assets that were most valuable or of the highest value to the Consulting and Management Companies, but that law did not tange it. So the Consulting and Management Society will still, if I understand this law correctly, continue to operate in accordance with the law on the restructuring and liquidation of certain companies that have failed to reshape. This consulting and management company, in particular, has building land, and this is an extremely high value, which is still a para-state body and financing investments past the state budget and beyond the control of the National Assembly. Thus, this purpose of the law, which states that the public funds are established for the pursuit of property and also for the execution of certain tasks in the field of development and in particular the treatment of the long-term obligations of the founder, has released one important legal person, who is obviously in the interest of the Government, to continue to operate beyond the control of the National Assembly and beyond the control of all other authorities, because only the Government is the one who is the founder of the Consulting and Management Society and can directly decide what will happen to this property. Something has already been said about the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. This is also an open topic since 1993, since this fund was also established. Here too, the question is how much this law will help to make this law, or the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, more transparent. If we look at the text of the law, it speaks of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia after the law has been enacted - I hope that we can understand this law, because it does not contain extraordinary - it works further as a public institution. However, we know that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia has the largest immovable property in the Republic of Slovenia and will continue to operate as a public institution. And here remains an extremely open question as to how we will, in fact, be able to monitor the operation of this fund again: or, under the Agricultural Land Fund Act, where the name of the fund still exists and some of the tasks and bodies in this fund are organised or named entirely differently than in public institutions and quite differently than in the Public Funds Act that we are considering today. In short, an unresolved issue with the two largest assets, if that's what I can call them. In fact, one such status does not even want to have - we are talking about the Consulting and Management Society - but the other still, as some kind of undefined institution, is still moving in our space and exploiting on one side of the municipality on the other, apparently also solves any such problems that are in a narrow political interest. And this is a standstill of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which certainly justifies and speaks of the fact that we have not actually taken the step yet in Slovenia to start transparently managing our assets. So much for this general treatment, and then a little bit more about the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u30	Thank you for your word and welcome. Well, I'll support the marriage because it brings solutions to today's needs. I would mention this, I don't know if there are so many problems to be caused about whether today is the right time for this law to be on the agenda, or whether it should have been done earlier than mentioned. You know, in the second reading, we amended Article 56 on the transfer of unpaved building land from the Agricultural Land Fund to the municipalities, and it is likely that the applicant did not forget this, given that it was in the old law. For six, seven years, or perhaps even eight years have passed since this was defined by law. And at that time, in fact, this task was not, as it was subsequently established, definitively realized. And today we can ask ourselves whether we've already asked ourselves this question on the board - who's to blame. It is probably not, and it would be perfectly logical to me, or it was logical that this was no longer in law, but thank God that some people who know things from the point of view of local communities have pointed to this. But we can ask ourselves why the local communities didn't do it. They probably can't blame the fund or whoever pays for the plot. If anyone is interested in free, free of charge, he will acquire an unwalled building land and then he will charge the burden of the plot on the one who gives it free of charge - a little ridiculous cases, we have heard that too. I'm so happy we included this. Some congregations have arranged this, but some have not. I would also like to point out that these unwalled lands are still valid today, even now - these are those lands that were defined as land at the time by the spatial components of the unified plan for exactly a certain period of time. So 1986-1990 and the second 1986-2000, then it didn't change anymore. All those lands that have been transformed by the congregations into secluded areas after this year do not come into account here, so that no one would argue that this could not be settled, given that these lands are out of the question. However, we supported, at least in New Slovenia, a solution on provincial legislation, so that in the event of the establishment of the landscapes, these lands, which the municipalities managed to convert to so-called wally areas before the implementation of the provincial legislation, would become management or ownership of the municipalities. I am pleased that the law is ready to follow today's needs. In particular, I support this public-private partnership, and I am also convinced that all those who see the possibility of setting up the Fund will apply this law as much as possible in practice, and that this will be one new added value to global development in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! I'll say it like this: better late than never. Indeed, these statements of colleagues representing the opinion of their party were only a little maliciously directed towards the Government, which, in fact, proposed these changes at the last meeting. Nevertheless, I think that the purpose was good, and even in view of the opinions that have now been presented, I think we all support this law. This law will, therefore, probably be without any big votes against it. The most uplifting and always up to date was the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which our fellow mayors always wanted in their February. I think this is legitimate and correct, but in this case only a broader interest needs to be looked at. I think that the proposal that was made to transfer this agricultural land, this fund, as the capital of a new formation that is supposed to be called the region, is correct. And these land will also be a basis for management in the new situation, the situation in the region. I think that marriage is good and, despite the late hours, acceptable and I will support it. Then I'll check in with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u34	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I myself have listened carefully to the views of the groups of Members, and I must say that they have been very short and stingy. In fact, they didn't touch much of the law itself, which means that the law before us is good. That a certain financial value must be determined for the fund, we probably all agree. However, anyone would probably write a different number that would be difficult to explain precisely why. That these funds have been large in the past and that they have been operating with very small funds is true, and that today the law on the financing of municipalities is such that there is no longer a need to establish these funds, it is true. Therefore, it is right to determine some value and perhaps even the closest to the truth this conclusion is that time will show whether 10 million for the congregations is the correct sum or for the provinces and the country of 30 million. However, the fact that the Government is proposing too late and Parliament is adopting some laws, we have been listening to it all the time, it seems to me the same as, I don't know, yesterday our graduates received a diploma, as if they were required to do all the exams in the first year, but not to spread out into four years. So it is by means of laws adopted by a government coalition or by a government majority. So, in a four-year term, he's trying to do the most and then leave a trail behind. You've all said in a row that you'll support the marriage, and I'll support it myself, and I'll touch on my predecessor's debate. I am not one of those who advocates that the congregations rule over agricultural land. If that happens, I think a big mistake will be made. With agricultural land, in terms of agricultural land insurance, we should certainly be able to manage the country in the future, no matter how the provinces, when we reach them and so on. As agricultural land needs to be protected from increasing building pressures and this is done by virtually all countries in the world, and in Europe in particular and in Slovenia, agricultural land, the most quality, is rapidly decreasing. I think we have only 11 euro of agricultural land per capita right now. And if we let this actually come to the lowest level, then here, for a magnetogram, I will say, this pressure will increase further and this change in the destination of agricultural land will be made even more. It is true, however, that I am missing from some of the solutions a little more cooperation from the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, where a matter can be settled and it is essential that this can be done at the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, and it is likely that it is necessary to accede as soon as possible to certain amendments to this Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. I don't know if it could be done, it would be for those who are members of the committee and who have had this law before you on the committee itself, to say and, together with the Government, to find that this law would also solve what is the principle of colleague Weber. So, what's up with the buildings? We have cases in this country where building plots are owned by DSU and public buildings are located on these plots. I'm not going to go down on a case-by-case basis, but I know that. For example, there has been a school for 30 years and it is a big problem to transfer this building land to a local community or transfer that means some state aid, but in fact this transfer does not involve any State aid if there is an object on this land, but this matter has not been resolved before. I do not blame this government or the proposer, but this matter should be resolved in some way. However, I am certainly pleased that this 56th article, which speaks of unpaved buildings, has remained in the transitional provisions, although I agree with what Mr Mikolić has opened, has resolved this issue of the transfer of unpaved buildings. The fact is, some congregations in God know the reasons for not doing so. It is only right that even now this transfer is still being carried out under the Public Funds Act, which entered into force in 2000 and thus gives them the opportunity to still do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u35	Thank you. Does he still want a proposal? Mr Lavrich, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u36	It was a question of what the Fund of Agricultural Lands would do or what would happen to them. I have already said in my opening presentation that there are basically two options, namely that this matter should be resolved by amending the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests or by adopting a law on the transfer of jurisdiction to the provinces. With regard to the Agricultural Lands Fund, I would also point out that the National Assembly adopts the Financial Plan of the Agricultural Lands Fund, so that the National Assembly has a direct view of this. The very law before us today is essentially a system law. As you yourself have said many times, you Members, but the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests is not a public fund and then this problem needs to be solved with these two options, which I mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u37	Thank you. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the reviews of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2008 I am therefore putting to the debate paragraphs 56 and two amendments to this Article. One is proposed by the Zares Group and the other by the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 56 and the amendments to this Article. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Trofenik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. First, all you have to do is cut down a little bit in history. At first glance, these provisions, which concern, including the amendment, do not fall under this law. But it just looks like it. Why? When we adopted the Fund Act and because it was not possible, there was no political will to interfere with the Law on the Fund for Agricultural and Forest Areas at that time, but there was a solution in the Law on Public Funds to try to "correct the error" under the nickname that happened to non-agricultural land. This was the case for two species, or in the first instance only for one type of agricultural land, which, since then, were defined as non-walled building land, but had to be transferred by legal persons under the Agricultural Land Fund Act, since they were mostly agricultural land in nature, mostly to the Fund. This was an underthinking difference, so in 1998, when the Law on Public Funds was amended, we introduced a provision on the initiative of Members to transfer such land to the municipalities. I would also like to answer some who are asking why the transfer has not been carried out. The initiative was, as a rule, by municipalities that wanted and needed these lands for their development and operation, but it was a very negative relationship between the then management of the fund and then there was a whole range of open issues and problems. Only after a change of leadership has there been a resolution. Therefore, the situation that all transfers have not been completed has resulted in the creation of a technical transfer procedure, although there is no law, of a logical consequence that someone has to pay for measurements and similar matters. It makes sense that he pays the one who accepts it. We wanted this amendment because the new law is willful or unwilling, that is to say, forgotten this provision in the law in force. Local communities would be damaged at the moment, so we have proposed such a solution already for the committee meeting. There, I must admit that it was positive that the position or majority of the committee had recognized the need for a solution, but our solution was not prepared. Another solution was adopted that is closer to a narrower solution. In particular, we have highlighted the problem of protection forests, specifically with regard to the narrowest water protection areas. There is also a need to say what the problem is because one of the amendments does not properly address it. Under the existing legislation, prior to the introduction of the Fund or in the former country, if you wish, forest management was required to be managed by the then forest economies or, whatever they were told. And in water protection areas where it was necessary to plant artificial forest in order to protect the area, after planting, even if it was planted on the field or on the lawn, this forest must be transferred to forest management. Forest holdings were obliged to transfer all forests to this fund at the time of the establishment of the Agricultural Land Fund. Therefore, forests other than forests in the true sense of the word were also transferred to the Fund on land that was generally remunerated or to an economic service provider called drinking water supply, or consequently to a local community or municipality. This is said not to be the land that would have been obtained in an unpaid manner, but generally in a way that was artificially or subsequently afforested for the purpose of protecting drinking water sources. And there was no logic under the applicable Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands to transfer this to the Fund. This was done by the forest management in some way voluntarily, by the congregations and by many times without the knowledge of the congregations. Our amendment refers to this problem, that even in cases that are not concluded; and not all are concluded, and not by the fault of local communities, but by the fault of the former management of the fund, which part of these lands has been prepared to derogate according to the law and the other part of the land has not been prepared, you have the illogicality that such forests are protected, protected in this sense by the word owned and managed by the Fund of Agricultural Lands, and on which there are concrete objects. It was not possible to cope with the supply of water. From this point of view, it is essential that the law be duly corrected with some amendment in order to allow the completion of these procedures or the execution of those not for any reason. It's two reasons. For the first time, an inadequate or unnecessary transfer to the land fund and for the second time, it is property, multiplely the property paid or in a way purchased in terms of land provided by or by water consumers directly when they paid for the invoice in addition to water, also the purchase of land made by either local communities or their predecessors or economic public service operators. So much for the reasons why it's necessary. It is true that our amendment is a little wider in this part because it goes to the content, to the land, regardless of the date or date. Now, a few words more about the second amendment proposed by the four groups of Members. At first glance, it would be acceptable, but the last part of the sentence is questionable, "together with the burdens associated with the implementation of the water protection regime." There may be two possibilities: whether it is underlyingly written or knowingly written. We have previously understood under the burden the burden of denationalisation, because there are also such cases. Normally, if the land is transferred and is burdened by the obligation to return under the Denationalisation Act, then the denationalisation burdens go to the recipient or the new owner, including the costs of the parcels. I come back here, there is no problem in principle in the lotion or in the dosages, but why they are needed, some underestimate and do not want to know. Because spatial plans in the past did not divide by partial boundaries, they followed a different logic. Thus, some plot, partly walled, intended for construction, remains partly agricultural land. And she needs to be treated normally. And there's also a logic that the cost is paid by the recipient. But it says, "...together with the burdens associated with the implementation of the water protection regime." I understand this by going to the expense of compensation at the expense of the limited use of this area for agricultural purposes, but I think that this is in conflict with another law that we have recently adopted. I don't think that makes sense. The burden of denationalisation may be logical. However, to go beyond the burden associated with the implementation of the water protection zone regime, they are questionable for several reasons. Firstly, part of the competence to define the regime in water protection areas has been transferred to the country. We can't forget that. A few years ago, it was resolved by law that this was to the Ministry of Environment and Space. That's why this diction, this part of the sentence is questionable for a number of reasons, so I think it's best to let it go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u40	Thanks again for saying that. All transfers that have already been made, as well as which will be carried out in the future, shall be carried over by a contract signed by both parties. I see no problem in these matters, and this concerns both amendments, as far as transfers are concerned, as the predecessor has pointed out. The amendment of the coalition quite clearly defines this task or this issue concerning the water protection area to be transferred to the local community. Amongst other things, the "join the burdens" dictatorship. If the mayor does, at least I will, or would do so, estimate that this is not in the interest of the congregation, it will still be the case. Why is that? Because what I said in the debate earlier, eight years some local communities have not settled matters regarding land transfer. Why didn't they fix it? That's the way it works today. If we had the urgent need for some crafty industrial zones not to mention some residential areas, we would probably have a slightly different view of the situation. We wouldn't be referring to who's going to pay anything. That's why I support this amendment of the coalition. It's the right thing to do. Now, don't get me wrong, I didn't want to put a problem or a burden on anyone with my own excuse or my own explanation. But here we are all equal, on one side of the country, on the other side of the local community. And once again, it's all settled with the contracts. And the contract can define everything. However, the contract shall enter into force when both parties sign. As far as the amendment of the Zares Group is concerned, the land is transferred to its own congregation along with all its burdens. This, on the other hand, is perfectly logical, but once again, what I have stressed earlier, the matter is once again on both parties, how matters will be settled. But I see this problem with the next sentence, which actually relates to what the coalition has proposed. If I read the explanation. I don't understand. It is said that forests are transferred with the emphasis of functions such as protection, hygiene and health and so on, which make them declared forests with special purpose. It's kind of a broad term. And I'm sure it's not really just about forests in the so-called water protection area, but it can also apply to something else, including other surfaces, including other forests. At least I'm not interested in the very forest of Donačko gora, which is the area of the congregation. There are many aspects that I can list. We are also not qualified to act or manage this, so I certainly will not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Trofenik, do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. My colleague and I discussed this, more in the hall than on the committee. It is true that our amendment is broader. The concept of protected forests, you know, Maria Theresa already knew. During Mary’s time, Teresa was planted as a protection zone for some settlements. So that we do not return to Mary Teresa without anyone understanding evil, I would like to draw attention to the commotions and to the projects of the commotions that contain affluence or planting from the point of view of anti-aircraft protection. These projects and these plantings are some 10 years old, not as old as I started with Maria Teresa. And if this is not protected by those and owned by those who have the greatest interest, and I think that there is at the location of any local community where there is a greater interest than in Ljubljana, if I am a little evil, then real protection is only possible through ownership. I must admit that our amendment here is broader than the water protection areas that we have referred to earlier and in a narrower sense. That's the first one, my respectable colleague. The other one's on contracts. When you said everything could be defined by a contract. I must warn you, not because I was with a colleague who is no longer here, the author of that amendment, which is now in force in the law on these transfers, that it took a great deal of time for the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Local Communities to form a practice on the relationship, because it is not in the law that the costs of measurement are a problem or that they are a mercenary of the local community, and another element of the contract that the burdens of denationalisation go to the municipalities. That's all logical, but it took a lot of time, unnecessary complications. If we were to write this down in the law at that time, I would say very self-critically, it would be more time-consuming and less time-consuming for these debates. I do not oppose, frankly, the other amendment proposed by the coalition groups. I could support him if there wasn't a sentence for that comma. On the case, I'll tell you who's up to date this year and up to date on bees, unfortunately. A few years ago, it was so secret, without proper publicity, it could have been to the detriment of people, not bees. Why? The phytosanitary administration has authorised the use of one of the non-disputablely harmful substances by regulation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u43	Mr. Trofenik, the time for replica is up. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u44	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u45	You're going to apply again.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u46	I'm sorry. I got carried away now, but I'll be back later.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u47	There's no replica to the replica. Mr. Mikolitch, you'll apply again. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u48	Thank you, Madam President. I just have a procedural question. I don't know if Comrade Trofenik had a replica or had a debate. Please, secondly, given that I have no more time to discuss, this is how I have to end this now.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u49	He responded to the replica. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. I have little time, and I will quickly say that I am very much in favour of the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. He's solving one big problem that's probably different, somewhere is true. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that they were affluent surfaces and came to the Fund of Agricultural Lands, but of course not somewhere. [[...]] In this way, we are solving the issue that in these water protection areas forests are owned by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, and the municipalities must now, as managers of the water protection area, fence these areas. We'll save the big one. As for the burden, I understand that this is not a denationalisation law, but it is a burden related to the water protection regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. I must say that Mr Trofenik has given a fine explanation of these forests and the water protection area, but the amendment writes for forests with a special purpose. This particular purpose here is beyond my understanding. A special purpose may also be military, not just water protection, or some other. I don't see any clarity here. Otherwise, there was a reason, but this explanation was only about the water protection forest here. However, the amendment does not say anything about forests in the water protection area. In this coalition amendment, I would, too, welcome that the function or task are not shared. If someone is a plumber, basically the municipality is responsible for clean and drinking water for the population, he should also become the owner and give this property to the management of those areas of water and water regime. I would also like to join Mr Sok myself - and I almost hope to say that the only link to the implementation of the regime is that this burden, which has been placed here, represents an exclusive burden on the supply of this space and the water protection regime as such, not some denationalisation and so on. I think that's the key purpose. I will also support this coalition amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Both amendments impose additional obligations on the municipalities, but let us see what these obligations should look like in practice. I kind of agree with the two amendments, but there are, of course, some comments in this text. For one thing, when we talk about land transfer with all burdens, we must also be aware that the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia has also been established because part of the funds it generates, either by charging compensation for concessions, for the management or management of forests, and also part of the lease for agricultural land, are allocated to the Slovenian Compensation Society to pay the denationalisation liabilities. According to the Supreme Court decision, the Fund has also become liable to pay off the revenue of denationalisation beneficiaries who have not had land since the adoption of the Denationalisation Act. However, I stress that the fund is a state institution, the municipality does not even have its own representative in the authorities, only so that part of these funds can be obtained to pay the burdens actually borne by admission would state land or the return of land and forests also be acquired by the municipality. And they have no resources for these burdens of the congregation. And let me just illustrate very practically that even many of the unwalled building sites that have been returned to the congregation, owners are making a loss of income that they did not have because they could not afford it. These amounts aren't small, they're very high. On the other hand, we do not still have the question of sharing compensation for concessions in state forests. This is the only concession, I reiterate, on the natural goods in Slovenia, from which municipalities have nothing at all. The same applies to leases for agricultural land. These are two categories that have not actually been solved. And if part of this income belonged to the congregations, it would also make sense for the congregations to take on the burden of denationalization in all these lands. Otherwise, they have to provide for these differences or these compensations from their own resources. Whether there is a special forest only in the water protection area or elsewhere, I do not think there is really a need to put a special burden on it. It is the forests that you declare with a special purpose to protect a particular environment or to limit it only for certain uses. This means that, in any case, the intensity of forest management is reduced, i.e. a smaller cut of wood than the economically eligible one. And here it is more about this principle that the congregation, as such, can then plan what more than forest management could do in this space, but it is not so much about earning from this forest. That's how I wouldn't put a lot of weight on it. With regard to land in water protection areas, as proposed by the coalition, however, I would like to explain the story that emerged recently under the Water Act. It is very clear that the operator of the water network must contract with the owner of the agricultural land or forest in the water protection area and pay him compensation for the inability to use the land as much as he could have used it if it were not within the water protection zone. And the problem will arise at a time when we can find that there is already a water fund, and we can find again that the Public Funds Act does not deal with it. The Water Fund is the one that collects funds from each litre of drinking water sold, as well as from all those waters that are filled in fillers and are then sold under market conditions in all possible shops and also in catering establishments. The Water Fund has very large assets that this law does not save again. In these water protection areas, the operator will have to sign a contract with these owners and pay through higher water resources this reduced income that can be generated by someone within the water protection zone. We missed the opportunity to draw attention to this in the Water Act, in order to adopt an amendment, which I also proposed at that time, to provide a source for the payment of these compensations for the reduced use of agricultural land or forests as a water fund. But this is, I don't know why, otherwise it's hard to explain to myself sometimes any such decisions of the National Assembly have been disregarded. And for all these compensations, the water user will pay through a more expensive litre of water, actually, this compensation for agricultural land. However, it seems to me that we do not pay these compensations, for example, to the Fund of Agricultural Lands, which manages and manages state-owned agricultural land and state-owned forests, that these land in water protection areas will be converted to municipal ownership, but at least there will be no obligation for the manager of the water network to pay, for example, to the municipality the loss of income due to the fact that it is an agricultural land or forest land in the water protection area. Otherwise, the Fund of Agricultural Lands may be happy to charge to the operator of the water network the loss of income due to the lower management of the forest and the lower management of agricultural land and the fund will only use municipalities in one way or another in the future. In part, this amendment of the coalition closes this possibility, but I say and I point out that, in the Water Act, we have not dealt precisely enough with the unnecessary burden on drinking water users, because these users are already paying funds to the water fund, but which allocates resources to a completely different place rather than to maintain water protection areas and not to improve, say, drinking water treatment technologies or, as I suggest, to someone who cannot fertilize in this area, then from this fund we provide them with funds. There are some things that are obviously still unclear, unclear, and many times the reason is that we may not listen to and take these arguments into account in Parliament and blindly try to follow what the Government or the Government representative says is necessary. This is a major flaw in these laws that we are enacting, and it is then shown in practice in such a way that someone will pay twice for something that could only be settled once. When we talk about the water protection area, agricultural land and farms in the area, every user with reduced use of agricultural land, i.e. the drinking water user, will pay twice, which is irregular, unfair, unfair and could still be listed. First, through the water fund, secondly, through more expensive water to pay off the reduced income to the owner of the agricultural land or forest. Both amendments are suitable to support each other. However, there are still many open issues that we will have to deal with more effectively in the future, especially in this direction, in order not to burden someone twice as needlessly as I explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u55	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can only see one hand. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. To correct a mistake or something that I couldn't say to the end as soon as possible. But there's something else I'll be warning you about first. These two amendments have not been written against each other at all, but they could both be adopted with appropriate corrections. Of course it takes, don't mind me, something. The starting point must be to take care of healthy drinking water. It has to be primary. If this isn't primary, then there's trouble. But I also want to point out the difference. Our amendment, the first one speaks of unwalled building plots, in the first sentence. And the second, later, might have been better if it had been written as a paragraph, but it was forests, dedicated ones, that were defined. And I have another weakness to point out in the coalition's amendment. This amendment states that these are the lands defined by the Government Act. I'm alerting the trap here. Most of these lands are not defined by a government act, but are defined by decisions of the competent authorities of local communities in the past. There was no Government Act on the first area, secondly, thirdly when the land was transferred to the Agricultural Fund. That's when the government didn't decide. The responsibility for managing or defining water protection zones has come to the country in this mandate. From this point of view, this doctrine is questionable because I fear it is missing a fundamental problem that goes back. And this is from a date, not long ago, forward. But before that, because of my problem, I've forgotten the procedure, and I'm sorry to describe this problem this year through bee poisoning. Three years ago, I do not think I was mistaken, but the phytosanitary administration allowed the same preparation to protect the cornfields in the narrowest, that is to say in the first zone of the water protection belts, although there was an alternative measure of colloping, which is natural, without application. And now I want to say, in such a relationship, when local communities are responsible for drinking water, and from this point of view needs these lands to do this 100% protection, the Water Act has brought what colleague Weber said unintentionally, at first sight likes, but an unimaginable obligation to pay a difference from the income that happens due to limited use in this area. This limited use or permitted use is defined by someone on a national level. In addition, I must say that it is not at all true that income per hectare of suitable crops or an appropriate income programme should be lower due to limited use, only the right culture and proper management must be chosen. That's a judgment. But it is true that corn cannot be cultivated, which is the simplest and most practical, but that does not mean that it is the most profitable. Let me get this straight. The amendments aren't against each other, they're not mutually exclusive. In some ways, they are complemented by the questionable burdens associated with the implementation of the water protection zone regime in the amendment of the coalition, and by a diction that speaks if these areas or land are determined by the Government's act. The acts of the Government for those areas which we have highlighted and which are in the present law do not exist, because it was exclusively within the jurisdiction of the social political communities at the time, if you wish, and later of the local communities, one or more neighbours. From this point of view, this amendment is questionable or its effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u57	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided today in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly, half an hour after the end of the 5th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. Dot of the Day - This is for the sake of a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on gambling for good luck. Mr Milan Petek and Dusan Kumer submitted the draft law to the assembly for consideration. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor first to the President, Mr Bojan Starman, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everyone. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 41st meeting, on 1. 7. Consider also the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling, which was forwarded to the National Assembly for admission by the first-signed Member Milan Petek and co-proposal Mr Dusan Kumer. At its 137th meeting, on 28.5., the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law in question should be considered on an urgent basis. No amendments have been tabled until the deadline for submission of the law by qualified applicants. Member Milan Petek, representative and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia from the Ministry of Finance, representatives of the Union of Players of Slovenia and representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, attended the meeting of the Committee. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was sent to the municipalities which, within the time limit of business, shall be sent to the opinion of the municipalities, which shall be until 25. 6. 2008, they did not convey their position. As working material, the members of the Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 13. 6, rejecting the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on the economy, crafts, tourism and finance of 19. 6. 2008 and letter dated 16 January 2008 from the Slovenian Gambling Workers' Union. 11. 2007 and 12. 1. 2008 with accompanying material. At its own meeting, the Committee also received a written initiative from both proposers with proposals for amendments to the Committee. In their explanatory statement, the Government stated that the proposal in question was not acceptable for reasons of substance and also due to legal technical shortcomings. This law is intended to regulate the distribution of tips in casinos that are supposed to become mandatory and to be divided by a certain key among all 1,800 casino employees and in some way to further address the issue of ownership participation of employees in the casinos themselves. As has already been said, the Government has not supported this proposal and the Committee has decided that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Gambling, the reduced procedure, is not suitable for further consideration. We also propose the same decision to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u59	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the bill's proposal to Mr Milan Petk for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u60	Thank you very much, President. For almost 10 years, efforts were made by the Slovenian Gambling Workers' Union to amend the gaming legislation, which would change the availability of the tip created in the gaming system and allow for the ownership of employees in casinos or concessionaires. Governments were changing, finance ministers were changing, political parties in parliament were changing, and the situation is still the same as when the gambling law was passed. It is incomprehensible to insist stubbornly on legislation, which is almost an exception in the European space, that we are not talking about the rest of the world as well. As it seems, the very views of Slovenian officials who have dug into the trenches and have every reason to believe so far that the finance ministers and their secretaries are stronger than any argument that is in favour of the need for change. My fellow Member, Dusan Kumr, and I have decided to try to negotiate with the current government, and the Members of this Assembly have called on you to listen to and accept the proposed amendments to the law by considering the need and eligibility of the changes. Despite rejecting the proposed amendments and the decision of the parent committee to take a decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration, today we call on you to reconsider the decision of the Committee on Finance when voting. We are, of course, offering a host of arguments for this. The amendment of the gambling law identifies this Slovenian regulation regarding tipping and co-ownership of casino employees. This primarily opens up the space for greater motivation for employees, better business results for concessionaires and increases in the revenue of the Republic of Slovenia's budget, and indirectly the share of the funds in which they participate in the places where the gambling activity takes place. We estimate that better motivation for employees increases the satisfaction of the boards, increases the visits to casinos, increases visitors to places where casinos operate, and increases the income of both casinos and tourist destinations in their vicinity. Co-ownership, for which in 1997 the adoption of a law on the reshaping of legal persons with social capital, which regulates special gambling, was also the basis for improving their motivation. Parliament's decision at that time can still be understood with the eyes of that time. With the development of the economic and social system, doubts and fears at the time are also incomprehensible. The new law provides that workers of concessionaires who are employed for an indefinite period of at least three years may jointly acquire a maximum of 10% of ordinary or priority shares. If the concessionaire ceases to have a working relationship, he is obliged to offer to the other shareholders of the concessionaire or workers who are not yet shareholders after the end of the working relationship. The Act also defines restrictions on the availability of shares and obligations of concessionaire shareholders in the purchase of shares. However, with the provision referred to in Article 4, all those who were in a working relationship with concessionaires on 1.5.1998 are offered a corresponding equity share at book value for the purchase and thus the elimination of the injustice, since it was not possible to place certificates in their own companies during the period of property transformation of companies with social capital. As elsewhere in Europe, the endless problems of tips collected in special boxes at gaming machines and other places saved by this novel would be the property of employees, not the income of concessionaires who can or cannot afford to pay employees. So the tip would be the property of the employees and would be dealt with by way of dividing it by a collective agreement. In practice, most concessionaires do not use tips for salaries, but the concessionaire’s income remains reduced and the motive of the workers is reduced. Trade unions note that this exception is only our largest HIT concessionaire, which regulates this form of award fairly and thus reduces the pressure on wages from regular operation. In this effort, we also support the Syndicate of Gambling Workers. Assuming that the tip as an integral part of the employee's salary would increase due to the motivation of the employees to keep the contributions and taxes on salaries unchanged, the State would obtain between €1 million and €2 million of the budget, according to the union's assessment. On the basis of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the opinion of the Government, we have also prepared amendments to the law to improve certain legal uncertainties and to enable employees to become shareholders by recapitalising the concessionaire instead of the mandatory sale of shares. The Government and Members would, by concluding that the law is suitable for further consideration, allow the amendments to be duly incorporated into the law. Therefore, our call to vote in favour of the adoption of the law and thus express support for the Union of Players for their efforts.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u61	Thank you. I give my word to the representative of the Magnificent Government. Mr Lavric, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! As the Chairman-in-Office of the Committee, Mr Starman, said, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Gambling proposed by the Member of the National Assembly, Mr Petek and Mr Kumer, is not suitable for further consideration for substantive reasons and also for legal technical shortcomings. With regard to the first proposal that concessionaires who arrange special gambling in casinos should sell 10% of the concessionaire's shares to workers, I would like to point out that there have been several such initiatives, which have also been given to the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court has rejected or rejected these initiatives. This bill, which would provide for such compulsory sale of the concessionaire's shares, could be constitutionally disputed. Problems would also arise, for example, at the death of a shareholder worker, where the problem of the constitutional right to private property and inheritance would then be raised. The draft law also does not contain this part of the text in such a way that a uniform understanding of the text can be made. The explanations are general and explain the reasons and objectives for the proposed amendments, not the content of the articles. At the same time, there is no definition of the compulsory sale or acquisition of the concessionaire’s shares, nor are there specified operators of this procedure. There's something else I'd like to add to the tip. We believe that the proposal before us is essentially based on a different understanding of the provisions of the already existing gambling law. We believe that the aim of the applicants is to make a tip for employees, that this objective is already achieved in the provisions of the already existing gambling law. The legal provision already in existence does not mean that employees are not entitled to the tip, since the concessionaire’s income covers the costs of the concessionaire and clearly also the salaries of the employees. And in this law in force, it is expressly stipulated that tips shall be distributed for employees in accordance with certain rules in the general acts of the concessionaire, which must be in line with the sectoral collective agreement, and that no members of the administration and other leading workers of the concessionaire are entitled to the tip. For a short while, so much about it. And I can reiterate that the Government considers that this proposal on amendments to the gambling law is not acceptable due to substantive reasons and legal technical shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u63	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we do not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on gambling, which was incorporated into the procedure by the first-signed colleagues Mr Petek and Kumer. According to both proposers, the amendment to the gambling law eliminates this regulation regarding tips and co-ownership of casino employees. In this way, according to the proposaler, it is intended to open up a space for greater motivation for employees, better business results for concessionaires and an increase in the revenue of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia due to the fees paid by employees of the concessionaire. The new law was also intended to eliminate the unequal situation in which employees were placed in concessionaires to arrange gambling because they had no opportunity in the past to own these companies by means of certificates. The new law also provides that the tip is exempt from the income of concessionaires and becomes the income of employees, also lays down the conditions under which the tip is distributed to employees. It also provides for the possibility for employees to buy up to a maximum of 10% of the company's shares. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports this proposal for a law amending the law on gambling and considers that the casinos we are talking about are not state-owned, but are owned by Kada, Soda and also by local communities. The Constitutional Court has already decided and found that the employees working in the casinos are therefore not in a constitutionally unequal position when they had the opportunity to place certificates in their company. This was still a great deal to mention only the case of civil servants. The tips in the casino have always been. According to the information presented to us on the Committee on Finance, they are also quite large. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we share the Government's opinion and we have no objection to these tips being used for employees' incomes, but in an appropriate way, which will be adopted between the two, this is said between the employer and the employee. However, if there may be no such agreement in any society, we cannot interfere with the law if workers and employers cannot agree on it. In view of the above, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that the proposal of some kind is an attempt to meet a group which did not get what it expected just before the end of its term of office. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party believe that we can only get a good law through the participation of all interested groups and also through the assistance of the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll start back here. For 10 years these efforts, as has already been said today, are under way. And also some who have already spoken about this speaker have been involved in these types of negotiations, partial negotiations, and have also given some opportunity and opportunity and hope that this could be arranged, and the last moment they squeezed their tail between their legs and thus stopped. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats we support the efforts of the Republic Executive Committee of the Union of Players of Slovenia, who have been working for 10 years to obtain ownership shares and tips of employees in Slovenian casinos. It's about 2,000 employees in these casinos. However, by the executive branch of power, there has obviously been no real obedience or willingness to go against the proposals of these 2000 employees during these 10 years. This can also be seen from the opinion of the current Government, which rejects the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling, which we have tabled with our colleague Milan Petk, for reasons of substantive reasons and legal and technical shortcomings. With regard to the second reason for the technical and legal shortcomings, I would not lose words because there is almost no law proposed by the Government in the parliamentary procedure so that it itself, with its own amendments, would not be legally and technically corrected. Sometimes he doesn't do it yet, and we Members of the National Assembly have to do it. However, the substantive reasons may be the subject of debate. The proposal, based on a 10% allocation of equity to employees through recapitalisation obtained by the purchase of book value shares, does not, in principle, undermine the ownership structure. However, it corrects some kind of injustice that has been done to casino employees in the past, which has been impossible for them to invest their property certificate in an economic society where they have created their existence. And here's an incorrect comparison with government officials and more. To correct the injustice committed to them by casino employees in 1997, i.e. during the period of the property transformation of companies. Secondly, the proposal for the allocation of ownership shares would also have a significant incentive effect for casino employees. The result would be greater efficiency, better results and, last but not least, more efficient revenues from both the country and the local community where the casino is located. Employees would also receive retirement after leaving the company. This is some kind of closed investment fund, which employees with this property would not be able to afford freely, but would be intended exclusively for retirement when leaving the company. The government has its opinion to reject this proposal by arguing that it is constitutionally controversial if the law provides for the mandatory sale of concessionaire shares for obtaining special gambling to employees, in particular from the point of view of their shareholders. It may not be a mistake for that same government to examine and assess whether all concessions granted to present concessionaires are legally and constitutionally indisputable. Also from the point of view of the shareholder structure of these concessionaires. Nor can this dispute or indisputability be invoked only when it comes to employees who, after all, also retain shareholders, concessionaires in their capital life. In the case of tips, however, the argument of the Government does not stand when it rejects the amendment of the law because the tip is already regulated in the provisions of the gambling law. For it is true that the applicable law defines the tip as the income of the concessionaire and provides that the tip is distributed to the employees in accordance with certain rules in the general acts which must be in line with the collective agreement. However, there is an argument on the torn legs that they are entitled to the tip already because the tip is the income of the concessionaire, which also covers the labour costs that include the salaries of the employees. That's the whole point. The revenue from the tips cannot be the main source for covering these types of labour costs, but rather a supplement as an incentive to do so. Finally, the tip is a direct reflection of the customer’s satisfaction with the service and it is right that the customer who directly performed this service and not the shareholder of the concessionaire who is sunning in Bermuda receive it. The Group of the Social Democrats supports it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u68	The very conclusion that, at today's meeting, Mr Lavrič, representing the Ministry or Government, which has not yet been felt and seen in the debate on this legislation, shows that the Government is determined not to go into controversy or agree to change its position. That's the way it is. In the LDS, we object to what members of the coalition achieved by their vote when they declared this law on gambling inappropriate for further consideration. Already on the Commission or on the Committee on Finance, through these presentations, which I hope today, that some or those who are here, you understand, are proving that there is a real possibility that such a law, with some corrections, can continue to be addressed and that there are real possibilities in the interest of a lot of people, especially trade unions and concessionaires, to come up with the proposal adopted by this law in corrected form. I do not know how to explain to Members that we are not actually doing anything so bad with this law that the country is affected. The State would be more satisfied, more than now, to receive more money from the taxes that would be paid from the income from the tip. The State would also not be affected if the recapitalisation allowed employees to participate in the management of this property. On the contrary, we believe that through this recapitalisation, employees would be motivated to make their way of working better, so that through this way they can improve the work and relations with guests, guests would also prefer to come to the casino and mass to increase income. The basis for amending this law is therefore this long-standing effort of the union and those who feel the most about what is happening in the gaming system. And the fact is, in the gaming system, we have some relatively regulated concessionaires or some of these activities, which of course deviate from this, from the prospect and from these expectations. And because obviously there is no philosophy that the tip would therefore be primarily intended for those who create it or who are causing it or improving the amount of the tip, the concessionaires decide to use the tip to cover their costs, operating costs and this element falls out in motivation for employees. If the Slovenians, like all other countries in this legislation, had similarly regulated the soybeans, I would also understand that we do not understand or that some do not support this, but I am trying to prove to you that we are Slovenians almost an exception in this area, and that all countries have recognized that the tips are the source that allows the needs of employees to be met, the motivation to improve and the results of the concessionaires. That is why we have tried and, in the LDS, we believe it is appropriate to continue the debate on this law. The definition or provision of a representative of the Government, how the Constitutional Court has rejected the expectations of employees or those who have applied for constitutional review, is not realistic. Therefore, the Court rejected the judgment on the grounds that it had assessed that the applicants had no legal interest in the initiation of the proceedings, not for substantive reasons. Therefore, this reference to a decision of the Constitutional Court is inappropriate and, in fact, is not realistic. In its decision, the Constitutional Court also allowed different ownership of the transformation in casinos, and this was by no means ordered. So, it is true, she said, they could own these companies differently, but they didn't order them to own them like that. This leaves room open to enable employees to participate in the ownership of casino companies. This claim is intended to be unconstitutional. All that we are trying to say, we have understood in the LDS as the need or the conditions for offering other colleagues and fellow Members of the parliamentary groups the opinion that the law should be put into further consideration and that the LDS considers the law appropriate. This recommends that you do the same for others.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representative of the Government, Members of Parliament! Gambling is a very specific sector, so according to New Slovenia they need to pay special attention and regulate it in a particularly sensitive way. The aim of the proposal is to settle two matters which we believe are already largely regulated by the legislation in force. We do not claim that the legislation in force in this area is perfect, but we are convinced that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Gambling is not sufficiently imaginative and complete. The proposal seeks to settle two matters: employee ownership and tip. The idea of changing the ownership of casinos does not seem so controversial or problematic to us. However, the way this novel is proposed is controversial. We believe that ownership is the most important position of the owner and not of the administration, often mentioned by the proposer. If, in agreement with the owners, they had already decided to reshape companies dealing with special gambling, they should do so in a way that would be fair to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, stocks should be sold, a public form of sale. However, we should not be able to limit the possibility of purchasing shares only to workers, but also to make selections and set specific conditions, three years of employment, sale of shares at the time of retirement or death, as this is, in our opinion, also a legal issue. With regard to tips, we are convinced in New Slovenia that this area is already properly regulated in the law. We know that tips in casinos are incomparable amounts, such as restaurants or other working places in tourism and catering, where tips are also common. Therefore, in our view, it is particularly necessary to establish a system appropriate to this effect and to establish control over the means of tipping. In our view, all tips can go to wage funds if agreed in a collective agreement. The collective agreement is therefore a place where the exact way, and to what extent, the tip will be distributed among the workers or how much will go into the means of payment. It is therefore necessary for all signatories to ensure the implementation of the provisions of the sectoral collective agreement, but not to amend the law. In Novi Slovenija we will support the proposal of the decision of the parent working body that the proposal of the law is not suitable for further consideration, because it is not sufficiently clever and too much of a novelty on the specific field of gambling. Furthermore, it has not been completed in a legal technical sense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u72	Dear President, Secretary of State. Dear Members. Gambling is subject to special legislation in Slovenia, as the possible negative effects on the cultural, social and natural environment and the individual of this area cannot be left to the free economic initiative. The proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law shall touch on two areas which, according to what is said, are structured in a specific way. It proposes to abolish the regulation on tips and introduces the possibility of co-ownership of casino employees. As such, the law, in our view, is both contentious and technical, and in some parts it is constitutionally controversial for us. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The position of the DeSUS Group will also be brief, as is the short proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law. In the introduction, however, let us say that in our parliamentary group, as in all the other parliamentary groups, we have been informed of what is being done by those who have drafted the amendment and the law. What has been presented to us and as we understand it, what the Government has presented, what the Council of State has presented as its position, and also what the Legislative and Legal Service has presented, was not enough to convince our Group of Members that they would support the amendment of the law. This is a proposal for changes concerning games, gambling and the idea of changes in special gambling or gambling. Games are part of our everyday life, including gambling. Both individuals and individual organisations are involved, and they are a source of either satisfaction, here and there, and accidents, and sometimes even disputes, as has been the case with us when we decided on how different humanitarian organisations will share the resources that come from this source. Of course, it is important to note that taxes are also the source of our budget and, in particular, local budgets, they have a very important impact on these budgets. In all areas, there are strong interests, including conflicts, and this is likely to be difficult to reconcile. We estimate that, as is now provided for in the law or provided for in the law, it is still appropriate that amendments and additions to this law are not necessary. The problems identified by the applicants or those who adopted the proposal prepared by the casino workers relate mainly to the ownership and distribution of tips. In the Group we join all those who have rejected this proposal, this is said to the Government, the Council of State, and we also take into account the many comments made by the Legal and Legislative Services as well as the fact that the amendments to all these comments have not been taken into account. In short, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal for a decision adopted by the mother's working body needs to be supported. We will not support this amendment and the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected representative of the government, a colleague or a colleague! The idea proposed by the proponents in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gambling has a long beard and, in fact, has been the open desire of the gambling trade union, which is in some ways a legitimate employee representative. Of course, we support the proposal of the gambling trade union, which has also been addressed to our parliamentary group in the Slovenian National Party Group. The fact is that we cannot agree with what the Government has stated that the proposal for a law is not acceptable in the light of the substantive reasons and also due to technical and legal shortcomings. That's not true. If we wanted to make it acceptable and could actually be confirmed today, I don't think so. But, look, in itself, the question is being raised, and I should be forgiven if I am critical of the applicants, why the applicants followed the wish right now at the end of this term in the National Assembly or another question, why they did not settle this open issue before they were in power twice. That's what we've been warning you all along. And I must point out that there is not one tolar that collects as a tip in the central cash register, we are talking about millions in euros. It would be good if we didn't just distribute this tip between, I don't know, the bulk or the cylinders, but that part of the tip would also be given to the one working in the dressing room. I fully agree with the way that was written here as the idea that this is collected in the central box and then split into employees who created this tip. If we've ever been to the casino, we can know that the moment that someone gets a win, divides it or gives it as a tip to the one who brought it either the pay slip or that sum, and that's usually the sum, that's usually the supervisor, that's usually actually close to some roller that brings the drink and so on and they get the tip and that's not the only thing that gets the tip. Others work nightly and responsibly. And this is where the casino workers' union is absolutely right. This tip has to be distributed among all employees and the law adjusted so that it can be legitimately and legally distributed, but not that the country which has the highest share in large concessions, where these tips are the largest in one way or another 51% of the share, is to be collected by the State. Speaking of millions of dollars, it's a disgrace to the government that she wrote down so much that she actually wants that money. I would say that the salaries of employees have been under the strict supervision of the Ministry of Finance for over six years and are in fact aligned with these criteria more or less also cause dissatisfaction among employees and in some way no one has come to this Chamber or objected. But it is true that what is collected as a tip, the state simply does not have the right to collect this sum. That's right. And if we have not already been critical of the government, when wages have been reduced, when it has actually increased rights, when it has actually shared concessions, how it has shared them, I will not go into how the concessions have been distributed, what the criteria have actually been in it, then let's be at least as fair and as fair to the employees as they create this profit, and ultimately they must laugh at the guests even when they are ill-willed, and they must also be kind when guests lose 50 or 100 thousand euros a night and listen to all the reasoning, let's be so kind to these workers that we let them actually get what is theirs otherwise. I think this money is from employees and the country has been illegally collecting these tips for years and years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Lipa Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! In the Lipa Group of Members, we will support the bill. So we're going to oppose the negative conclusion of the parent's working body. Maybe a little bit of a joke for real, even some, I'll say a certain percentage of the owners of individual casinos say that it's as much as we could hear that the tip is distributed among the dealerships, so those who carry out the activity are those who are directly employed. For those who like to go to casinos or occasionally go to casinos when they get at these gambling, at least in the current practice, as much as I have had the opportunity to give money to a dealer, then the concessionaire picks it up. It's not about gambling, it's a very profitable business. It seems to me that this mandate is precisely the one that has already been confirmed and in some cases, when it comes to a couple of casinos in northeast Slovenia, for some casinos with a small licence, we say, it seems to me that you simply cannot vote for this law or vote for such a law. If you look at who are the people taking the lead: CEOs, directors, board members in these casinos. But I can tell you that many and many casinos would not be in this trouble if people chose professionally and not politically. One such problem, and it's not hard for me to be honest, I have nothing to hide, you have in Casino Maribor. Look who's a member of the board and where the client comes from, where he performed, whose list and the city councilman whose client he is. Another major casino in northeastern Slovenia - see where the director of this casino performed on whose list. Let's take a look at small concessions, let's go see which family from Maribor got the most concessions for carrying out a small concession in the field of gaming. This is the family that writes the same as the day before Saturday. And now you're going to say that employees in this country don't deserve anything. That you're a casino employee who actually works for people, like my predecessor said, who have to be smiling for these people even when they don't want to, you don't even allow them a co-owner's share. The only country in the EU with the same regime as Slovenia is Hungary. When you talk about the EU, you compare with all countries. I've never heard of anyone from the government coalition to compare us to Hungary. Let us compare ourselves here with other European countries. I think the purpose of the two marriage candidates, colleague Petko and colleague Kumar, is more than well-meaning, more than meaningful. And if I were to really disturb you, as I have heard in the speeches, individual dictions, individual inadequacies, would have an opportunity to end this with amendments in the following aspects of this law. That's why they're soft excuses. They're excuses because the government didn't suggest it. But by September 21st, this government can't propose this, it can't suggest this, because I told you why not at first. Look, from whose customers or from whose customers, not from whose clients, because it would rarely be possible to find the CEO of whose casinos from the Slovenian People's Party, DeSUS or NSI from whose client they come from, I will say, the leaders of these very profitable businesses, and these leaders will take these leaders with what brings money and local communities and the country to the cant. Be honest with me once, and tell me that we don't want to support each other, not that we don't want to, we don't hope and we can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u79	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, after a good half-hour, that is at 12.00. This concludes this agenda item. I'm also adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll continue in a good half an hour, that's 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. In accordance with established practice, I ask Members present and Members to check the functioning of their voting devices, on the right hand side of the card inserted, the orange-yellow light must be on fire. Are there any comments? [[No, no, ……]] Which means we can go to the vote. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Public Funds. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. In conjunction with Article 56, we will vote on two amendments, and first we will decide on the amendment of Article 56 of the Zares Group. Can we vote? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Lakhovnik. Comrade Lakhovnik is your word. It means we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 36. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 56 as well. Comrade Trofenik, in your own name, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u81	Thanks again for saying that. Before the vote, I would like to draw attention to the question of this amendment, since the Chamber was practically empty. I regret that the previous one has not been voted on, mainly because it says that it is land which is defined by the Government's Act as the first water protection area. I would like to point out that the Government's act defined the water protection area, none of which was transferred to the Fund of Agricultural Lands, since that was not the responsibility of the Government at the time. This amendment does not solve problems, as it was intended, for the back, which solves the current Law on Public Funds, but from one year x a little back when the government decides. I am warning this and, of course, because of this amendment, I cannot support it because it does not solve the problem. This is a will or an unwilling, pardon a mistake or a trap that solves nothing, which was intended to save or maintain at least about the same status as in the current law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u82	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 4. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have also ended by voting on the two amendments. However, we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a law as a whole. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law due to the amendment adopted would not have been harmonised. So we're voting on the whole law. There are 70 Members and Members present, 52 votes against 3. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the broken 5th point, this is the consideration of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Gambling. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on gambling is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 17. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the halted 15th item, this is the 2007 Report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for conclusions. Before we go to the explanations of vote - possible, I would like to warn you, in case you want to explain your vote, explain your reasoned voice with the data, explain with the data from the examination of the material of the level of secrecy, please give a preliminary announcement, because in this case the meeting will have to continue without the public being present. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. 61 Members and Members attended, 49 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the decisions are adopted and thus conclude this item on the agenda. On the other hand, we continue with the 14th item, the Investigative Commission's report on the political responsibility of the public function holders involved in the preparation and implementation of the purchase of light armoured vehicles 6x6, government aircraft, haubic 155 millimeters, fire management system, aircraft pillatus and recovery of T55-S tanks financed under the basic development programmes of the defence forces of the Republic of Slovenia in 1994 to 2007, due to the suspicion that the transactions were politically negotiated, conducted in a non-transparent manner and that they were non-economic, and the suspicion of the presence of clientism and corruption and the suspicion of the responsibility of the holders of public functions in disarming the former Territorial Defence, with proposals for conclusions We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for conclusions. Before we move on to possible explanations of vote, I would like to remind you that part of the material under consideration bears a code of secrecy, degrees internally. If you wish to explain your voice in the context of this material data, please make this known in advance, as this item of the agenda will also need to be closed or done without the public being present. Can we move on to a decision? No, no, no. Comrade Cvikl's explanation of vote, colleague Zagorac's explanation of vote, colleague Cernač. I'll open the application procedure. Please, if you follow the instructions I just said. I'm asking you to sign up. I'm sorry, we'll reopen the application procedure on our own behalf. No, on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Who wants to do it on behalf of the Members? Comrade Squeakle, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u83	The Group of Members will not support the proposed conclusions because the proposed conclusions are contrary to the findings of the independent institutions. In doing so, we specifically pointed out the third decision under point 2, that it was a so-called irregular, non-economic link, in particular the manufacture of light armoured vehicles 6x6 and the sale of Systemic Technics to Viator&Vector. I would, of course, like to say that we have a 2005 Court of Auditors report from the mandate of this government, which found that the sale was economical and gave a positive opinion. Mr Erjavec also said that he advocated that Slovenian soldiers appear with well-armed and, above all, safe vehicles on military missions. And the only vehicles used by the Slovenian Army, and that's why they were praised, are vehicles 6x6. [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me, gentlemen, there are 6x6 in Kosovo, but there are Hammers in Afghanistan. The Minister spoke about his visit, including some others, in Kosovo, but you can see for yourself that, of course, the so-called largest contingent was equipped with 6x6. And thirdly, the National Assembly notes that, of course, there is going to be a change in public procurement legislation that would now provide standards and so on. It should be noted that since 1997, the same provision in public procurement legislation has been applied to the field of defence contracts, which is that there is no legal protection provided and therefore the third decision is simply unrealistic, false and otherwise. But that's what happens when it's attributed to the pre-recorded conclusions. Thus, for these reasons and also taking into account the substantive separate opinion on the report itself, the Group will not support the proposed conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač, colleague of Boštjan Zagorac, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group, we will support the conclusions proposed by the Commission of Inquiry for adoption by the National Assembly. Despite separate opinions, none of the findings contained in the 12 points of this report was rejected. It is also quite remarkable that those who have given a separate opinion have not even looked at this extensive documentation in practical terms. One of these two is why he spent 35 minutes and the other didn't take a minute. So that the credibility of these separate opinions is very questionable. In its findings, the Commission relied mainly on extensive material, surveys of systems and hearings of witnesses. On this basis, the individual segments of the investigation were found to be based on the findings and, with regard to 6x6 it was not found to be inappropriate, the findings explicitly state that the equipment subject to the defence readiness investigation takes into account the timing of the decision-making. This applies to vehicles 6x6 and to aircraft Pilate. However, purchases did not respect the principle of economy and transparency. And this comes from both the documentation that was reviewed in this process and the statements made by individual witnesses. The Court of Auditors reviewed the sale process of Systemic Technics or 80% of the share sold by the government to Viator&Vector, but failed to identify the sales related to the transactions concluded during the same period. At the moment the company was sold, the Systemic Technology had over 8 billion Slovenian Tolars signed contracts. The findings of this report show that the acquisitions have been very simplified. In a good month, a contract was signed for over 8 billion former Slovenian tolars without checking the quality and other characteristics of this contract. If we compare it to 8x8 procedures, we can find that there is a significant difference. There the process lasted almost a year. Here, however, the tender was sent only to one tenderer who had already been known and signed a contract without any individual elements being previously checked. The conclusions are based on these findings. They're contained in the report, they're clear, they're unequivocal and they're holding. In this mandate, the National Assembly has amended public procurement legislation and the standards established in this legislation also apply to military procurement. However, we have not witnessed this in previous mandates when these systems were ordered domestically. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We will therefore support this report in the parliamentary group, as well as the proposed conclusions. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u86	Thank you very much. One last explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. Mr Boštjan Zagorac, on behalf of the Lipa Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! If 3x3 is a game of luck, public drawing and the winner is dependent on happiness, they are definitely 6x6 and 8x8 lucky games where the winner has always been known, but those who bought the tickets are citizens and citizens of our country, so to speak, budget users. It is always known that there was a Government in one business, there was another government in another business, and there was also a debate and a conviction, whether we should support this report or not. The most frequently heard word was LDS Robb and the opposite of Janš SDS. If we go for some more sport, we'll see Janša leads to Robby 2:1. 2:1 in the case of Maribor weapons John Janša, 6x6 Tone Rob, 8x8 again John Janša and Janša lead 2:1. So please don't defend such things. Any arms deal can have or is always part of a hidden business that we do not see, there are always percentages of the commission, and this must be accepted. At least they're "cassing" the mailmen. Those mailmen who cancel one commission for an anonymous letter: Please put it out in public. JJ's signature. And we still call her anonymous. But this is John Janša meant by JJ that no one will mention Peter Klepec or anyone else like he wanted. These are all arms deals, and acting clean about it, it's totally stupid. Indeed, there is one thing, a common denominator, in all three transactions on the basis of which investigative commissions were established and in the Lipa Group we are convinced that they are established to conceal the facts and the truth to citizens and citizens. But the courier was always the same. The one who knew, I'll say, adapt to one government, another government, a third government. But once again, I would like to point out that whatever you do to be honest, you still run 2:1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? No, no, no. I'm opening a procedure for self-explanation. I'm asking you to sign up. A colleague, Stanislav Brenčič, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I will not support this report because it is nothing but one of the farce we have produced in this mandate. All the weaknesses of this time's government, even in the defence field, want to hide itself by simply pointing our finger back at the previous governments. I claim that I was also part of the previous governments, that at least Dr Demšar was an example to the current minister on the issue of transparency in the field of supply and supply of military equipment. Take it as an example, not as a weakness of previous mandates, as someone from the largest government party used to say, take it as an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u90	Thank you very much. My colleague, Miran Potch, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I'm not going to support the proposal with a decision. Mr Cernač boasted yesterday that their Commission acted properly and specifically and that it did not propose conclusions which would mean "not attestation or rejection", but suggested different conclusions that the political responsibility of individual holders of political functions in relation to the subject matter of the investigation was great. What's that? It's a dumber conclusion than one that says she couldn't even confirm or deny. And that's the content of these conclusions. I fully agree with what my colleague Brenčič said and would add only the following. It's impossible for us to have investigative committees that fail to establish the correct facts. Without hearing people about the subject, they are identified as investigators, and they place their responsibility without being proven in any way. And the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Cernač, hopes to say today that the opposite has not been proved. Yes, you know what, Mr President, you who led the committee have something to prove.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u92	Comrade Potts, we are not in the debate to explain our vote. Please, if that's what you're considering.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u93	The Commission of Inquiry, which has prepared the material, must prove that its findings are correct, not those we think the other way around. And so that the findings made by this Commission of Inquiry are correct, no hearings are offered and no document matters are brought, so I will vote against this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will not support these conclusions. Otherwise, the parliamentary group did not actively participate in this strange investigative committee, which reminds us of medieval threats and what it provoked, there can be no other than a political pamphlet, whose conclusions and findings were known even before they started their work. This Commission, as shown by these documents submitted, has been set up to block a second investigation, and this is an investigation into patriotism, and this has also done so or otherwise. Even today, this coalition is not able to say much about what it is doing itself, of course, but much knows what was wrong with governments, such or otherwise, before this period, and this is a manner that has been in place for four years and will not be disposed of until the end of this term. And I hope that these same people will maintain this manner even after the end of this term. In fact, if all these commissions, I am leading one, prove in this way, they could at any time, anywhere and anyone, condemn or declare this or that, in accordance with this or that interest. This document will be a valuable document of this National Assembly and will fall into the political bias that this assembly has never seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new circuit to apply for an explanation. Here's to the application. My colleague Franz Pukšič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I'll support the report. It is true, however, that in this National Assembly or even a few mandates back, the reports that are prepared are actually difficult to come up on the agenda and should be discussed at all. When the current opposition had the power to prevent it, it also prevented it by voting. There wasn't a chance this time. According to super armors 6x6, which have already been described today, how excellent they are, who are on various missions of our Slovenian Army, we said yesterday that nine of them are said to be standing because they have a broken armour, that a large majority of them are standing because they do not have brake systems. And of course, saying and not only saying, said and from various records it was also evident from the testimony of the documents, etc. that in this business 6x6 the following business was agreed 8x8 and, of course, all of these transactions, as they were carried out in the sale of Slovenian property, under the table, without the invitation, of course, were done by the same actors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u98	Thank you very much. My colleague Zvonko Černač has the floor again.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support the conclusions. Not because I was the chairman of this commission, but because I am behind these conclusions in this report. I said yesterday, it's business that's closed. As a result, the main weight of the investigation was the examination of the dossier and only in cases where there was a lack of clarity were the witnesses heard. I also explained why these witnesses are here. And it also follows from this report and from the findings that it was right for us to hear them. The National Assembly instructed us to determine the degree of political responsibility of the bearers. We wrote that political responsibility was great if it was non-economic and we also said why it was inconvenient, but it did not. Why? That's because they ran out of term earlier. All these things in the report are properly recorded. I don't know why we should then figure out the degree of political responsibility of someone who doesn't occupy that city that he was in when those deals happened anymore. But we've restricted ourselves to those two jobs that are still going on. And that's business 6x6 and Falcon. For 6x6 we found that the equipment for the military was suitable, but the procurement procedures, especially in connection with the signed letter of intent in 2003, which assumed a pre-arranged deal for Krpan with Viator&Vektor, were not appropriate. We said the same thing about Falcone. Mr Rob and Mr Bandelj could not agree at the hearing whether it was a purchase error or whether the error was a later broadcast. It was both a problem, we found out, and we also wrote this very clearly. The worst problem was, of course, the show. And this show is still running, and it can still be investigated. For the findings in this report suggest that the rent for this plane is essentially too low and that the way of this arrangement is concluded so that our country will never see it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u100	Thank you, too. And I'm opening the application again. Here you go. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The weapons lobby with the armed tycoons is 17 years old. And the report and the conclusions of this Commission of Inquiry, together with the conclusions, have no other purpose than to cover up these people so that they can continue to do this work. That is why, of course, I do not support these conclusions and these conclusions. They are more like some fast political courts trying to find one or two culprits in some way, and again, I say, cover up the serious problem of the arms lobby and tycoons who actively participate in the arms acquisitions in Slovenia for 17 years. It began with today's Prime Minister of the Government and will obviously not end with the current Prime Minister of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u102	Thank you. However, the word is given by Member Aloise Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. I thought that, as far as these findings were concerned, these matters were indisputable and not only us here in Parliament, but also the Slovenian public already knows about them. To claim that the purchase of falcon was an economic act, the conclusion is that these transactions were uneconomical, unprofitable and, of course, irrational for the country. And that's a fact. So, there has been a lot of talk about this Falcon, and if I agree with this finding, if someone already claims that buying this plane was not a mistake, it was a mistake when this plane went into use in a way that is now committed, and because of course the contract cannot be terminated and nothing can be done. So it was, in my opinion, a two-time non-economic decision. And so, of course, it is necessary to assume responsibility - the one you have accepted. I understand Mr Gantar, who today is talking about some medieval procession, that he was sitting in the government that was deciding that. And secondly, even for armors 6x6, if you can't deny that these armors are not in function, that even happened, that where these chassises were locked together, it is said where they were welded, that there was repentance, then of course we can't say that such a thing is rational and that it is in function, in favour of the Slovenian country. And actually, this is a summary of Mr. Pavček's testimony, who said it himself, and he also said that the deal was uneconomic for them, that it was linked to order 8x8 [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This, of course, is followed by a study by our fellow Member of the Squeak, who in every way wants these armored 8x8s to be done by those who are already in such a way as [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u105	Fortunately, the computer is unforgivable and takes the word to the coalition. Look, the problem with this report and all we're talking about here is there's no evidence. If we really want to carry out evidence about the role of individual holders of current public functions, then we should invite John Janša and ask him: Why did Systemic Technicians give a large plaque in 2000 when it was agreed and arranged for business 6x6? And we should ask the then President of the Government of Andre Bayuk: Why did he annul the decision to buy an Adrie Airways Canadar with 12 seats because that's how the pilots convinced him on a certain year against Warsaw, because there were no adequate sanitary facilities on that small plane. If you want to investigate yourself now, then you need to investigate developments in the past in full. It was therefore unfair that, after four months of sleep, the Commission did not accept the proposal of additional witnesses proposed by the opposition colleagues in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, but by the members of the Commission. And that's the whole story. Therefore, no evidence has been produced here and this cannot be supported. With regard to public procurement, colleague Cernač, the law has had one key provision since 1997, and that is that for defence orders, for confidential orders even now, according to the new Minister Rupl in the field of external matters, Minister Matei for matters called these operational stories, which are called transporting these or those, legal protection is not applicable and this has not been changed and you have had the opportunity to correct this when you chaired the European Union, and therefore the third decision is a pure insinuation or a small lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u106	Thank you. Member Janez Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u107	Thank you so much for saying that. Whether these conclusions are exact, correct, identifies the facts, but I will not support them, or I will not support these conclusions for more reasons. If all that is true, then it would be wiser if the law enforcement authorities had already initiated the right procedures and those who in any way had committed an illegal act were, of course, a misdemeanour, to move things forward so as to achieve an effect. As a rule, the Commissions of Inquiry have achieved nothing so far, except that political games have been staged in this regard and there is not much to expect. Otherwise, the commission of inquiry is an instrument of opposition. As a rule, it is an instrument of opposition. Because the government coalition or government has instruments for this, it has prosecutors, it also has all the documentation that it can dispose of and manage. So any 6x6, 8x8, 12x12 or 3x3 report, you know, I'm not going against this decision, but I'm not going to vote for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u108	Thank you. However, Member Jože Tanko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I will support these conclusions of the Commission because they are credible, the continuation of what the Commission has also found in the report. The fact is that since 1997 we have had the Public Procurement Act and not one purchase that this Commission has dealt with has been made under this procedure. As early as 2003, a letter of intent was signed for quadricycles, i.e. 8x8, with Systemic technique past the public procurement procedure, any decision. That is why all these purchases were uneconomical, irrational, because the offers were not completed, many annexes to the contracts were signed and all of this represented a number of incentives. It is interesting that, for example, the extension of a contract or a new contract was written or the offer for a new contract was only made on four pages, in four days, for a deal worth 30 million euros, for a deal worth 30 million euros and not one of the purchases I said was made in that way. It's the only way to get these jobs to be politically negotiated. And all these deals were politically negotiated. As for the evidence, all I have to say is that the evidence was used in this committee. This is called evidence, as well as those oral hearings that were needed to do so, and the findings in some parts are, I can say, shocking. Especially that statement under the oath of Director Viator&Vector when he said that the component of the purchase contract was also a contract [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] for 30 million euros, as well as a letter of intent for the arms trade of the century, which is being investigated by another investigative commission. [[...]] I'll support the conclusions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Can we vote? We're voting. There were 72 Members and Members present and 38 votes in favour, 27 against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 27.]] I understand that the conclusions are taken. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. Since the amendments to the amended proposal have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. On behalf of the SDS Group, Comrade Branko Grims has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the SDS Group, we would like to draw the attention of the public, in particular, to the valuable message brought by this law, in which we have avoided any battle for political prestige far away. In fact, at our request, with the assistance of the Ministry of Culture, we have submitted an appropriate amendment, and finally, with a high level of consensus, we have adopted a law that provides the basis for the completion of some of the already launched investment programmes in the field of culture. At the same time, I can only express once again a surprise, as well as a sincere disappointment, that yesterday, by one part of the opposition, there was a desire to attribute any ideology to it, since it was a list that had been drawn up since the previous governments. Because it is a law whose validity has already been extended twice, so any such attempt is obviously pointless. On the contrary. In a way, and I can honestly say, as President of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, this law is something that well and qualitatively surrounds the work of the Commission, which covers the area of culture in the National Assembly in this mandate, since we have finally adopted, through joint cooperation, an appropriately complementary proposal from the opposition, thereby providing one realistic basis for better cultural development, to complete the investments already made in the next term. On behalf of the SDS, I would also like to stress in particular our firm determination that our confirmation of this law also means that, of course, in addition to caring for economic growth, as high as it has not yet been in the history of independent Slovenia, and that we have achieved it in this mandate for common prosperity, for social security and for the general security of people, we will also pay special attention and, in particular, for culture in Janez Janš's second mandate, and that is to say, the concern that this area deserves at the time of globalisation and our EU membership.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u112	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Zares Group. Ensign Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u113	Yeah, it's really funny. We regret, of course, that the high economic growth achieved by this government has not filled 100% of the implementation of the Law on the provision of money for specific cultural programmes. For this year or in this last period and 2007 only 34%, 34% of the 100 funds that should go for this purpose have gone for this purpose, this is said in programmes that are particularly needing attention. It is recalled, however, that almost 50% of this quota was drawn from the past, if I mention 1999 when this programme began to take place for the first time, and later in 2001 it may have actually fallen to 29, for a time unfortunately of the late Minister Shelig. But I must stress, however, that we will not really oppose the law. It is interesting that this is the last law in this mandate and that it is not proposed by the government that we wait for the last breath to be proposed by the government. After all, the minister promised him. What do we miss? We need no longer to recognize this government the necessity of certain programmes, since this law is essentially the way to end, to smother these special couples - or the additional funds provided for the cultural field. Because in 2013 it will actually be exhausted when it is intended to cover those alternative investments in culture that are not due to this or any other government in these 15 years. What is worth noting in the table prepared by the Government, the partnership, has just added it to the law and is crucial in ensuring and listing projects, is that there are no items in 2009 or when we have a budget and that there will be an urgent need for a balance, because those items mentioned here are not mentioned in the 2009 budget. And what I would particularly like to stress is that I am terribly sorry that the Government, which in its programmes, coalition contracts and even client presentations recognized film, audiovisual activity, art network, bookkeeping networks, information centres and so on as a priority, is here [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] fills with only 20% share, which means - at the same time, of course, peaceful news locks the Kino Dvor, the director takes away the key, breaks almost [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the application circuit in my own name. Here you go, please. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u115	I will uphold the law myself, even if it is proposed by the opposition. However, I must say that it is not only about supporting the completion of the projects already started, it is also about opening up certain content to a new one. In doing so, I must say that I am also disappointed that the Ministry of Culture has failed to take advantage of the moment and to introduce into this law the contents that have never been initiated in the past and have been neglected for ideological reasons. I think it's a shame that this moment was delayed, but of course the law itself thinks it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. A respected choir! As a drafter of the law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, today we can call it the cultural euro, I express my satisfaction with yesterday's, virtually 100% agreement on the presentation of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, and that we have already reached agreement on the amendment, which was provided by the Government or the competent Ministry of Culture. Let me say that we already passed the first Cultural Tolar Act ten years ago, which was adopted in 1998 in the National Assembly with the full consent of all parliamentary groups. This also happened in 2002, when we first extended the validity of the law which expires this year. And I hope that today, when we vote on the second extension or the third law, we will also reach full agreement. However, there will be a lot of work ahead of us, because if we want to implement this programme for five programmes for investment in public institutions, for cultural heritage restoration, for amateur culture, for library and cultural networks, we will need to provide sufficient resources in the state budgets. All together, by 2013, when this law, which we are about to end today, I believe, will have been confirmed, we need to provide some more than €80 million, and this will not be such an easy task, but I am an optimist as a bill-maker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Školč has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u119	Thank you very much. If possible, I would speak on behalf of the Group of Members. See, this law can be supported, but it must be said that this law is to some extent a missed opportunity and is a prisoner of the poor functioning of this Development Partnership. For if this law were to be done in the way that all other laws that provided funds for investment in the cultural network were to be done, then a substantial wide range of stakeholders would be involved. In this case, however, it was a prestigious question between the ministry and the SD gentleman as to whether or not this is being extended.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u120	My friend Skull, I'm sorry. Comrade Tanko, let the fellow School do See, the session can also be interrupted [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u121	He doesn't care.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u122	Comrade Petan, please, if you are so many and sit down, you are listening to a fellow schoolboy tell you his position. Comrade Skolč, we will extend your time, otherwise I will be forced to suspend the meeting in 10 minutes, and this is not in the interest of any. Comrade Skull, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u123	We are in law talking about investment in culture and it is completely understandable from this point of view that they are being rude in the SDS. It must be reiterated that this is in some sense a missed opportunity, because there are a number of problems in culture that have not been addressed 10 years ago, and this is not the case today. Let's get it over with. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Slovenian culture certainly would not have survived another mandate of Mr Simoniti and would not have benefited from economic growth in this respect, not that [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I see. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u125	Please, if I may continue. If you've been jumping into my word [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u126	Comrade Skull, you know you can't take your word for it, especially if you sign up for another microphone. You know I won't let you. Thank you very much. Comrade Skull, we understand the point of your explanation of voice. Thank you very much. And I'm opening a new application procedure. Procedurally before that, Comrade Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I propose that, in this direction, you are consistent to warn Members who speak and insult, as Mr Školč has allowed. He was the Minister of Culture, his realisation of the NRP or the cultural tolar was 3% or 4%. And that wasn't any harm to culture. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Another thing is, I would ask all those cultures who are now jumping into words, including Mrs Shirca, who is a cultural woman, and even an official at the Ministry of Culture, to remind them that when others say that they are not jumping into words. After all, the esteemed lady who was the bill-maker was not present yesterday or at the hearing, and this is an additional extremely strange attitude towards cultural law from a representative who was once an official in culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Now I've seen quite a few raised hands on procedural proposals. I will no longer make procedural proposals, regardless of your future reaction. I'm going to open up an application to explain my voice. Please those who wish to explain their vote before the vote if you sign up. There's a colleague named Milan M. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to come by, but of course Mr Tanko always takes care of a new procedural complication, including all the warnings of the Vice-President, what he can and does not intend to do. But my comment and my support for this law goes for the next reason. There is still a Constitution in Slovenia. This Constitution states that members of the opposition or positions, partnerships or non-partnerships can make laws. And, of course, if laws are adopted in the National Assembly, then, as proposed here, laws in each budget are also trying to coordinate properly. In fact, we are deciding today if we support this, which way we want to provide funds for emergency cultural programmes. This is, of course, a great dilemma, especially with individual laws, whether we do it or not. However, if this law is supported, and I will support it myself, of course, every time a coalition agreement will specify which of these matters and each time a budget will be more precise, it will be able to be adequately financed. What remains to be considered is that this so-called share of the country could have an additional column, namely, how much this share of the country is set from the Slovenian budget and how much from the European budget, which is, of course, only the turn of our budget, and then it makes sense, above all, in the municipalities, to start preparing for these projects to be ready. And in this sense, I believe that the Constitution is still in force, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This law is valid to support, but everything else is pre-election politics. I doubt, however, that we will have the same cultural coalition in the next term.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u130	Thank you. My colleague Mitja Slavinec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u131	Thank you so much for saying that. I regret, Madam Vice-President, that, even in view of the good experience we usually have, you have not given me a word. My procedural proposal was intended for purely well-intentioned. I just wanted to remind you that you promised to extend his time and I wanted to ask you to keep this promise. In the remaining 30 seconds, he would no doubt be able to complete the presentation of our parliamentary group and we should not have to speak to him. But if I have a word, of course I will support this marriage. Because if we have a military tolar or a euro, of course, it is polite to have a cultural one. At the same time, I deeply regret that not so long ago, a good two weeks ago, we have not been able to gather in this House so much common sense and consensus as to continue with the school euro. School Euros - a very important thing, a very important law, because without education, without knowledge, culture will not be so successful and so internationally recognized, not least, and also for our citizens and citizens [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Welcome as if you were otherwise. [[...]] So, I will support this law, and at the same time, of course, I will also have in mind the school euro, which unfortunately did not go away, and I ask that you also accept my introductory hint with understanding and allow that extra time to my colleague Školč, who you promised him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u132	Thank you very much for your tip. As chair of the meetings, I have opened a special application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. That's when those who pressed the button got the word. No one was prevented within three minutes. If anyone later remembers speaking on behalf of the Group of Members, I will no longer allow them to do so, as has been the case so far. However, we are in the process of explaining on an individual basis. My colleague Martin Mikolitch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will support the law and, I must say, I don't mind at all, or I don't want to argue about who proposed the law, who supplemented it, so that the law is suitable for us to accept it and it is necessary with this content that is here today. I would conclude by concluding that, in this mandate, we had a Partnership for Development between some parliamentary parties signed, and I am kind of pleased that we have somehow concluded this partnership for development with the partnership for the preservation of cultural heritage and other activities in the field of culture, which is, in fact, some proof that we only knew at least in certain areas of cooperation. That's how I'm gonna support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 64, against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. And we're moving on to 12. Point - on the defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on the Testing and Labelling of Products of Tribal Metals. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body, which also reports in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. In doing so, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me this time that, due to the additions or amendments adopted on the home working body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. That is why we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, for 65, against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. And we're moving on to 17. Dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, dot, The assembly will consider this item; First time. Three proposals from the Council of Justice for election to the Court of Justice by means of proposals for decisions. Another time. Proposal by the Council of Justice for the appointment of Supreme Court judges in the Supreme Court of Justice with proposals for decisions. Third time. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions who participated in the preparation and implementation of the contract on the purchase of infantry armoured vehicles, medium-sized armoured vehicles 8x8 because of the suspicion that the transaction was politically negotiated, conducted in a non-transparent manner and that it was unsupervised, and because of the suspicion of the presence of clientism and corruption and the suspicion of direct or indirect linkage between the current and former actors and the holders of public arms functions between 1991 and 1993. On the fourth occasion, we will meet with a proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission. It's the fifth time. Proposal for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Commission under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function by virtue of a gainful activity. As we say, we are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. We are moving on to the consideration of the three proposals of the Council of Justice for election to the judiciary by means of proposals for decisions. The Council of Justice submitted three proposals to the Assembly for the election of candidates for judicial office to the courts of the District Courts at the District Court in Domžal and Cel. The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body, which also submitted written reports to the assembly and proposals for conclusions. There are no applicants for debate this time either. That's why we can move on to a decision. For the first time, I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Ms Maja Pšenik to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Domžal. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Another time. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ms Saša Kovacič to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. And for the third time, I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Barbara Regulj at the District Court in Celje. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals of the Council of Justice for the appointment of Supreme Court judges in the Supreme Court with proposals for decisions. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the appointment of Dr. Dunja Jadek Pensa and Mrs Vesna Žalik as judges of the Supreme Court of Justice. The proposal dealt with the Mandate-Election Commission as a parent working body, which also reported in writing to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. There are also no applicants for the debate this time, so we can proceed to the decision, for the first time, by putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the appointment of Dr. Dunja Jadek Pens as Judge of the Supreme Court. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Secondly, I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the appointment of Mrs Vesna Žalik as Judge of the Supreme Court. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who participated in the preparation and implementation of the contract on the purchase of infantry armoured vehicles, medium-sized armoured vehicles, 8x8 because of the suspicion that the transaction is politically negotiated, untransparent and that it is unconstructed, and because of the suspicion of customerism and corruption and the suspicion of a direct or indirect link between the current and former actors and the holders of public arms functions between 1991 and 1993. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission and, if it wishes, I am giving the President, Mr Franz Sušnik, a further explanation of the proposal. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Respectable. The proposal for a decision before you has been drawn up by the Mandate-Electorial Commission in accordance with its powers and on the basis of the allocation of the matter by the President of the National Assembly. The Vice-President of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the determination of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions who participated in the preparation and implementation of the contract for the purchase of infantry armoured vehicles, medium-sized armoured wheeled vehicles 8x8 because of the suspicion that the transaction was politically negotiated, conducted in a non-transparent manner and that it was unconcerned, and because of the suspicion of the presence of clientism and corruption and the suspicion of a direct or indirect link between the current and former actors and the holders of public functions with weapons in the period 1991-1993, he submitted a request to the President of the National Assembly for the resolution of the current President and the appointment of a new President of the Investigative Commission. The Vice-President and the two members of the Investigative Commission, on the basis of Article 12, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary Inquiry, have submitted an application for a supplement to the evidentiary decision requiring a witness to be heard by the Magi before the Investigative Commission. Milan M. Squeakl, member and chairman of the commission of inquiry. In view of the fact that the Law on Parliamentary Investigation in the first indent of Article 3(3) provides that a Member who is a witness in an investigation may not participate in an investigation committee, the National Assembly shall, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, dismiss and appoint a second Member of the Commission of Inquiry. As regards the proposed resolution or the procedure for amending the composition of the Board of Inquiry, the Commission also received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which concludes that the proposal for a discharge is submitted on the basis of and in accordance with Article 3 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. Because he was a magician. Milan M. Cwickl, appointed as a member of the Commission of Inquiry and on behalf of its President on a proposal from the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors, has asked the Commission of Commissioners to forward a proposal for a new member and president of the Commission of Inquiry. However, the Group of Social Democrats informed the Commission that it would not submit a proposal for a new candidate for a member and president. In the light of the above, the Commission has drawn up a proposal for a decision which is proposed in the decision of the National Assembly and is based on the facts which I have presented again. I therefore propose that the proposed decision be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u136	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SDS Group will be given by Comrade Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you! Yesterday, three members of the opposition were mags. Squeak, colleague of Moge and colleague of Orzmova Slovenian public have reported that they cannot deny the suspicion that the arms business of the century was politically agreed. We also discussed yesterday a report by the Commission of Inquiry dealing with certain acquisitions and renewals of military equipment in past mandates, i.e. in times of past governments and which had a very clear message. All the military transactions in question were politically negotiated, no public tenders were made, they were conducted in a non-transparent, non-economic and high-cost manner. The statement by the Director of Viator&Vektor, who is the majority owner of Systemic Engineering, by Mr Pavčka, clearly and unequivocally stated under oath that he was an integral part of the purchase contract between the country, is said to be the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then Prime Minister of Ropa, and Mr Cvikl was then the minister, in addition to the order for 36 pieces of wool worth EUR 30 million, a letter on the intention to supply 8x8, which would give the Systemic Technology without a call for tender the largest arms deal. In fact, Mr Pavček confirmed a few months ago what Mr Squeakl, Mr Moge and Mrs Orzmova just suspected. Mr Pavček said that the previous Government had been broadcasting arms transactions on the basis of an agreement and without an invitation to tender. This situation became known only when Mr Pavčka was questioned. The buyer of the Systemic Technology and the recipient of the contract was a member of the Systemic Technician and the recipient of the contract was a member of the Liberal Democracy, the Prime Minister was also President of the Liberal Democracy, Mr Squeakl and most ministers. And only after the elections, fortunately, did the invitation come out. For several reasons, it was also disputed that Dr. Break's expert, who was also required by the mag, was engaged. Squeak, Mr. Moge and Mrs. Orzmova. Mr. Squeakl immediately came to terms with the matter. On the date of appointment as expert expert of the Commission, Dr. Prebil was also appointed as a member of the Viator & Vector administration, which has been the majority owner of the System Technology since 2003. He has therefore become a member of the administration of Mr Pavček, a member of the Liberal Democracy. A member of the management of a competing and unelected undertaking analysed the appropriateness of the tender at the invitation of the successful tenderer. In my opinion, such an expert cannot be independent and impartial. The conflict of interest is more than obvious, there is also suspicion of economic espionage. And Mr Pretilo was proposed by former members of the Liberal Democracy and by the current member of Mr Moge. In some media records, the latest family acquisition of Mr. Cwickl is also on the Viator&Vektor payroll. Therefore, the decision of the three members of the Commission to propose to the witness, due to obvious political and business involvement, is logical. For all things were going on within the circle of Liberal Democracy. It would be even more logical for a person who is so highly involved in the arms business to not even run for office as a member of the commission, as it is obvious that he cannot carry out his work independently, correctly and responsibly and, in fact, from here all the problems and all the complications with the work of this commission of inquiry arise. The 1993 Parliamentary Investigation Act, therefore, has not changed this law for the past fifteen years, provides precisely how to deal with such cases. Even in cases where such circumstances as I have mentioned are found later. Such a Member shall, by law, immediately cease to work on the Board of Inquiry. The same goes for the presidents. We will respect the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, so we will support the proposal of the Mandate-Election Commission. And I also hope that others will read and understand this law as we understand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be moved by Member Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The ruling coalition in this or other composition, and certainly, at the head of the SDS and the leader of the parliamentary group, will make a major mistake if it supports the proposal of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. This mistake will be double. Firstly, she will again interpret the Rules of Procedure and the Law on Parliamentary Investigation for political reasons because she will interpret the things envisaged as final. Indeed, the Law on Parliamentary Investigation provides that no one can be a witness at the same time as a member of the Commission of Inquiry. At the same time, however, the law and the rules of procedure clearly stipulate that someone must be appointed as a witness, not as a witness. And Mr Cvikl was proposed by the three members of the commission of inquiry and the parliamentary commission of inquiry should identify this proposal. It cannot be rejected because the proposal must be taken into account, but it must be found. However, Mr Hrovat has voluntarily prevented this fact from being carried out until the parliamentary investigative commission meeting, at which it would be concluded that Mr Squeakl has been proposed as a witness. And this is the first major and serious mistake that the investigative commission has made in its sting and its desire to make it impossible for the investigative commission under the leadership of Mr Cwickel to meet and to be able to draw up a report by an investigative commission that the ruling coalition did not like. Any other reference to proposals and decisions today is legally incorrect, including the reference to the Legislative and Legal Service. I and Mr President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, if I were here, could confirm that, in the debate on the Mandate-Electorial Commission, I specifically asked and received, not loudly, but with no agreement that the Legislative-Legal Service had found nothing more than that in Article 3, it said that whoever was appointed as a witness could not at the same time be a member of the Commission of Inquiry. And that's all. However, she did not assess the procedure by which someone is to be appointed as a witness, whether the substantive conditions for the witness should be met or not, and we have heard in the debate today why Mr Squeakl should not have been on the investigative committee. Not because I would do anything wrong, but because it is considered inappropriate for the largest coalition government party to lead such a commission. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I come to another point. Up to the big political mistake you're going to make. I hope to say that an important part of the Slovenian public, except for the people who are the express supporters of your party, today knows that the problem of the work of this investigative commission is not in formal matters, but in whether the commission, as the work has put it, can finish its work or not. And you're afraid, gentlemen of the coalition, of ending it, of finding unpleasant and unpleasant things, including this ruling coalition. It would have been the only investigative commission led by this moment of opposition, which was also proposed by the opposition, all the others were your investigative commissions, you had a majority in them, you could have written a report, whatever, and you were confident that it would be adopted at the National Assembly. I am simply warning you, if you would like, we could do the same in this report. We could have let it come and voted against in the National Assembly, but you were afraid of the debate. You were ashamed that the National Assembly would discuss the content of this report and find that there are legitimate grounds for suspecting illegal conduct. As a result, you had to illegally and politically misuse the way in which you resolved Mr Squill. This is all the truth, and therefore we will not support this proposal in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Moge will present the position of the LDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u141	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and friends, nice greetings. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will not support the proposed decision of the Mandate-Election Commission, as we have several reasons for this. The Commission of Inquiry shall be a member of the Magi. Milan Squeakl led very actively, so Members of the Council have always resented his work. However, the exit of the Members of Mr Alojs Sok and Mr Willi Rezman suggest that their work has been too much for them, as otherwise, if the work were not right, it would have proposed, in accordance with the last paragraph of Article 10 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry, the discharge of the President of the Commission of Inquiry, which would have been commercially and substantively correct. But the position, not even her members, did not have my argument, not my courage. However, since the Commission has completed its work on the collected evidence and should adopt a report, it should be forwarded to the National Assembly, that the transaction was politically negotiated, untransparent and unconstructed, and that there have been so many mentions of customerism and corruption in this business, the position with the help of the Victory of Jelinčič has made a manoeuvre which we would have overlooked, in my opinion, also blind. In accordance with the legal acts, Members Robert Hrovat, Josip Bajc and Zvego Jelinčič completed the evidence decision by including among the witnesses the president of the commission, Milan Cvikl, and thus achieved without a reasonable reason that he was deprived of his post before the report was adopted and thus prevented from performing his work. At the same time, they have also headed the Commission, made it inoperable and, just before completing their work due to business deadlines, have achieved that the Commission will not do its work in this mandate, but will, ladies and gentlemen, in public, reflect the conclusion that the ruling position does not want to deal with customerism and corruption in cases where the facts show that it is itself involved. At the same time, in the LDS, we point out that today's decision will be a precedent for the work of future commissions, as it allows similar conduct to be carried out in the future by removing the desired members of the Commission by placing them on the witness list in the same procedure as this. With the President, Mr Mag. It was more than clear to Milan Cviklu which activity he was involved in before the performance of his function, and no one at that time thought that he would be replaced in the appointment process for this purpose. It is most surprising, however, that he was removed from office of President primarily because he spoke in the exercise of his duties as a Member, although he is also protected by parliamentary immunity in these cases. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling our fellow Members a "head cut". At times, we may have been very tolerant and very righteous when it comes to things like this, whether the nearness of death or anything else. In this case, we speak the language of politics, which, in our view, is shameful for the National Assembly when it comes to one sitting here between us. It clearly follows from the charter that the current position is trying and failing to prove that corruption and customerism are so obvious in the opposition. Yes, but who was still incarcerated during this position? But it is itself out of such activities when it comes to proving suspicion in its own kind, with all its power and cheap tricks to avoid it. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia as one man we will oppose the adoption of the decision, because it is more than obvious that in this case, ladies and gentlemen, there is no sacrificial lamb, Mr Mag. Milan Squeakl, it's a report, and it's in order not to reveal the truth in public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u142	Thank you very much. My colleague Jože Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In the New Slovenia Group, we regret that again, as we have done so many times, we are dealing with a committee of the National Assembly led by Mr Mag. Milan M. Squeakle. This is a follow-up to Ludvik XIV, "L ́etat cést moi", "State, it's me" or Slovenian, "Commission, it's me, Squeakl". But it is true that the contents of today’s episode have slightly different reasons and slightly different bases than the previous episode. Let me remind you that the National Assembly, and especially the College of the President of the National Assembly, has been working hard to resolve the difficult management of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, as it has been led by Mr Cwickl. When Mr Cwickl crossed over to the Group of Social Democrats, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly took over the leadership of the Commission for the supervision of public finances and took over the lead of the 8x8 Commission of Inquiry. The coalition proposed that the National Assembly should set up only one so-called arms investigation commission, but it was probably necessary to provide a colleague of the Squill with one chair in the National Assembly and so we received two arms investigation commissions. One I myself participated in today has concluded its work by adopting the proposed conclusions. We would expect her work to be presented to the National Assembly and the Slovenian public by the so-called Squeakling Commission, as well as by the rules of procedure and law, but the prospects are not the best. Not to be indistinct, let me also remind the Slovenian public that Mr. Vila Rezman left the Commission of Inquiry on 25 October last year, and at the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, Mr. Alojz Sok left the Member of Parliament on 28 May this year at the 39th meeting of the National Assembly. Both cited practically the same reasons why they left the Commission. I'll take one of them. "I stand out because in this way, as this investigative commission does, and in the manner in which it is managed by President Milan Squeakl, we absolutely, for the first time, cannot agree, and for the second time, we cannot work in this way. However, the Commission was set up to work and to find out what was right and what was wrong. The Commission's leadership, for the first time, is ignorant, secondly, the Commission is run on its own free will, and thirdly, it is guided by a continuous violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr President initially promised that this work would be carried out in a consensual manner. The work is running so that we are in constant conflict, constantly arguing that it is also in conflict with other commissions, with the Secretary of the National Assembly and so on. Mr Sok also explained in his explanation of the withdrawal from the Commission that the members of the Commission agreed that, at the time Slovenia leads the European Union, they would not invite members of the Government and the President of the Government to the hearings, except of course the Minister of Defence. Later, with the help of opposition members of the Commission, Mr Cvikl made a different decision. This is to be attended by Prime Minister Janez Janša. We estimate that such behaviour was an attempt to stop the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union. It is simply that some people have a typical negative feature of their own country, rather than their own political interest, which can also be referred to as foss. Three members of the Commission of Inquiry 8x8, fellow Robert Hrovat, Josip Bajc, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, submitted, in the opinion of New Slovenia, an amended proposal for the hearing of the President of the Commission of Inquiry, Mr Milan M. Cvikl. The Law on Parliamentary Investigation is exact, and the decision of the Mandate-Villary Commission is also effective. We'll back him up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u144	Thank you very much. However, colleague Pavel Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we will not really support the proposal for a decision to replace Mr Milan Cwickl as President in this committee investigating the business of patriots, dealing with armored 8x8. Manevere, a respected colleague and colleague chosen by the ruling SDS party and, of course, also by NSI, is quite transparent, to prevent this commission from doing its job and informing the National Assembly and, of course, the public of its findings. To prevent the members of the commission and the President of the Commission, who has been questioned, from meeting investigators investigating the business at issue on the Finnish side and to prevent any suspicion or facts related to those events from coming to the public or from being disclosed. As has already been said, the proposal to exclude Milan Cwick from this commission is controversial in any case. In this way, you can exclude any member of the commission at any time without any detailed explanation, only to be called by a sufficient number of his opponents for any reason to become a witness or anything and is out of the game. I have to say that you have to have a really huge, not just confidence, but some, I could say, even some brutal recklessness to do so. And that's something that I find strange, which is extremely bad. The findings are obviously unfavourable, some known facts, and one way or another, they point out that this Patria project involves people and networks known from past arms trades, especially in the early 1990s. This cannot be avoided and cannot be avoided by the practices of such groups. In particular, I find it controversial and extremely critical that you try to replace Milan Squikel with his personal qualities, that he is such, different, and so on. If we are at this level, we could tell each other how we evaluate each other at this last session. And these personal qualities in no way can be a reason to oppose any kind of leadership or membership on the committees. I think that this is even unsustainable and on the way a formal legal prohibition of any form of personal or other discrimination. This discriminatory practice that my forerunner has afforded in such an untamed way is something that everyone should object to. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we do not really accept the proposal, we do not accept the argument and we will clearly vote against the decision you are proposing on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. Before we go to the debate of Members and Members, however, a correction of the statement is also made by colleague Bajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hope that the leader of the New Slovenia Group, colleague Horvat, when he baptized me from Bajc to Zajc, did not have in mind the nature of the rabbit. This is the one who is afraid that he will do something, and I hope that my colleague Horvath did not think that I was afraid that the commission led by my colleague Squeakl would come to the report of this commission, which will then be forwarded to the National Assembly. When I decided to co-sign this additional decision to hear my colleague Squeak as a witness in the process of identification, what was the purpose of this commission led me only to the fact that my colleague Squeakle wanted to be chairman of another commission, and for which this National Assembly did not authorize or appoint us. He wanted to be the president of the arms commission and not the commission to investigate the links between the 1991-1993 people and the people who participated in the procurement of 8x8. For this reason, I hope that my colleague Horvat did not use this violation of my last name from Bajc to Zajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u148	Thank you very much. As we say, we are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I will lead the debate on the basis of the list of applicants. My colleague Martin Mikolitch has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. In view of yesterday's debate 6x6 or today's debate, or what will follow, I am increasingly convinced that no government, no parliament or any legislative branch of government will be able to adopt public procurement laws to address these problems. These are the facts. I must say, dear colleagues and colleagues, in view of all these discussions, many forget that this is just not a similar case, as was the case with the operating tables. You know how much debate there was at the time about the procurement or implementation of the Public Procurement Act. Military weapons do not fall under simple orders. All those who are, I will repeat, debate yesterday in the National Assembly and even today, should certainly have this in front of their eyes. And it's certainly because of this, but there can be a lot of suspicious or intransparency, that's what those who probably don't know about the case may say, and then it may be that we have as attractive investigative commissions as this so-called Commission of Squeaks. It is also attractive to be led by an attractive Member of the Commission. I don't know why you're mentioning this, but we should ban it from being the Squeaky Commission. What the hell kind of committee is Squeaking? And if they were consistent, at least everyone would try hard if they didn't read all this, which is what it says here, but it's an investigative commission to buy these eight bikes. But why did we come to this? That's why we came to this because someone is so important, so attractive that we call the commission after him. I have to say that I will support the proposal. Whether this is the right solution is a great doubt in the opposition, which just claims its own. We know that members of this committee have resigned because they are called the "Squeaking Commission". I will repeat this: because this committee is led by a rather conflicting person. That was said. And it's probably not all those people who just pretended to be a conflicted person is a colleague of Squeakles who stepped out of this commission. And today I might wonder whether such approaches are possible in some public sector. They must be. Are such approaches possible here in the National Assembly or the conduct of a commission, such as that of a colleague of Cwickl? She probably didn't do it in the economy. In some leading positions, someone decides certain matters so autonomously, for a time goes by, and then it doesn't work anymore. And, colleague Cwickl, it would be good if we were to do some business in the economy at some point, and we could also find that it is not so easy when it comes to certain matters, when you have certain great responsibilities or responsibilities to the very important tasks ahead of you. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But I'm sure anything you want can be done here. [[...]] Thank you. I can see it's my cha. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u150	Thank you very much for your contribution. And the replica was signed up by a fellow Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u151	I promise today that I will not replicate those who will deal with my political work, because here we are on different shores. But I have to replicate when you mention my work when I wasn't a politician. My friend Mikolitch, if you look at my resume and anything else, you'll see that I've already done something in the economy. And that it might have been at the time of independence that we had to be conflicted that some kind of law was put through this Parliament, on the basis of which we have the euro today and more. So please - deal with the commission, deal with 'ad rem' and not 'ad personal' if you can, but if you're not talking about my political work, not my private and my so-called professional and economic activities. That doesn't apply to you. If you don't know this, I can't help you, but you can try to get at least the right information. But I'm not going to let you insult my professional colleagues in the economy, but I don't have a problem if you have a problem with my political work. That's why we're an alternative to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u152	Thank you. Member Robert Hrvat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u153	Thank you so much for saying that. That is exactly what I was going to say, that today's debate would not go directly. I'm going to say for Mr. Squeakle that he's an extremely working Member and there's nothing to add to that. But here today we're not talking about a person like Milan Ciccle, but we're talking about the president of the investigative commission investigating the purchase of 8x8. I must say that the presentations of the groups of Members, especially here I am referring to Mr Potrč, Mr Mojet and Mr Gantar, that their findings are not in line with what is actually happening now. Look, we are absolutely not obstructing the work of the commission of inquiry. We wanted to hear the testimony of Milan M. Cwickel, president of the commission of inquiry. That was our wish. If you had a serious intention to come to the bottom of this matter, to come to the final report, which will be adopted by consensus, the Social Democrats would have proposed - Mrs Pečanova, which you can laugh at - you could have been proposed as president of this investigative commission, because you are a deputy to Mr Squil, I would have been at one of the next meetings because I know that they will, even during this next period, be able to consider this final report. Of course, supported by what is now missing in this report presented by Mr Squeakl to the public yesterday. And the key story of Colonel Bavčar is missing. That's not what this report says. For either Mr Bavčar or Brigadier Bavčar has denied arguments in a closed session, with arguments and documents all these statements, which are set out in the final report presented yesterday by Mr Cvikl. And we would also add to the hearing of Mr President, Mr Squeak, and then the final report would be essential, substantially different as it was presented yesterday. To explain the procedure in which we have proposed the hearing of Mr Squeakle. The procedure is the same as that of the opposition at five points. Let me tell you. We did not discuss the appointment of Mr Možina. It was business automation. That was Mr. Squirrel's word. Mr. Možina was appointed an expert who selected the material for us and prepared it for us in some minor form, as we spoke or myself personally, so that any expert in the National Assembly could do so. And you shouldn't have to pay him. 4,000 euros has been sent by an account that I don't know whether it's paid or not paid. Then Dr. Beaten's expert. In what way was he named? Nice to meet you. We received a table with the signatures of the three Members, a reference to Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure. And that's the whole story. When we objected to this, Mr Squeakl said that this is a business automation, there is no discussion about it. And then forward. Name of witnesses: Mr Janša, Mr Krković, Mr Cimernam and Mr Lovšin. Same way. With three signatures, reference to Article 12, no discussion. There is no debate here, Mr President has spoken. Not to mention the books that are like evidence to the Death Dealers and another one whose address I haven't remembered, but I've read it. It says three quarters or more, 90%, what Mr Swickl is saying is what the public will know if public access to those data related to 91 to 93 is opened. And so this was done five times at that time, without discussion with business automation. And now we have proposed that because there has been a business, political and personal connection with certain actors who want to use this committee as a clearing area with an unelected tenderer or with a selected bidder, I am speaking of Patria or Rotis, of course. That is why, Mr Cwickl, I believe that you know both Article 3 of the Law and Article 12 of the Rules of Procedure, which clearly speaks about whether you will still be president or not. There is no debate on that. That's how you taught us at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Reploco's got a colleague of mine, Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u155	The replica refers to the content of the work. Mr Vice-President, I would like to remind you that every decision taken by the three Members was first discussed on the committee, calm down the ball, you were invited to propose an expert with my letter, you did not propose it. Then we proposed this to the three Members. We had a debate on the evidentiary decision, where we found out, look at the magnetograms, and the basic content we are discussing today is the dispute over the so-called partial report. Mr. Hrovat, with your orders, the service no longer writes magnetograms and transmits magnetograms to the signature, with your order, with the Secretary-General's message that the services must only obey you, and you have hidden yourself in the hole, the services have ceased to work. Look, Mr Hrovat, yesterday it was necessary for the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office to submit all the documentation on the so-called corruption affair in accordance with the law. Who sent them? We don't know. If you want, gentlemen, let's close this public hearing and we'll talk about these documents. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No, no. [[...]] Mr. Croat, you say things here that just don't hold. I don't have a problem. Invite me as a witness, invite me as a witness, as you must invite Mr. Mohet, and Mrs. Cvetko Zalokar Orazam, because we all have done the same thing. And this action was that, on the basis of the fact that Minister Erjavec hired Mr. Pretilo, we asked the Secretary-General of the National Assembly and the Service of the National Assembly to carry out the appropriate procedures and Mr. Pretila [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] use for the preparation of an expert opinion. [[...]] Colleagues and colleagues, if you have such a problem with Dr. Breakdown's opinion for 950 euros, you can draw up a second expert opinion. What did you do in four months? You sent us Finnish investigators. You sent us a Finnish patrol to threaten the National Assembly. Minister Erjavec threatens members of the commission with lawsuits and you are doing a political blockade. No problem. Do it. But don't argue that because we don't work, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The commission is not closing. [[...]] The Commission cannot conclude its work because the situation is such that you have prevented the 5th urgent meeting in which your proposal to extend the subject matter and thus my testimony is discussed at all. It's the current state of affairs, formally on the committee. Anything else, Comrade Vice President, you've gone too far into the rules of procedure with your own head.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u156	Thank you very much. As you know, the MEP has five minutes to discuss. Comrade Squeakle, I'll start with the next line if you want to answer, count or count the time from your five minutes. Which means watch your time so there's no misunderstandings. The word is from a colleague of Rudy Veršnik. Replica? Comrade Run, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I just want to say that Mr Hrvat confirmed exactly what I said in his debate. He said almost literally, we got the proposals on the table, it is said, on the table of the commission of inquiry, and Mr Squeakl said there was no discussion about it. It's both true. But they're both in line with what I'm saying. It is not possible to invent, but to say that the proposal is already in force, but such a proposal must be made to the Commission of Inquiry. And the commission of inquiry has no right to oppose him, but it must still be on the commission of inquiry. In your case, when you put Exercise on the stand, that wasn't what happened. And secondly, what you confirmed in your debate, you said, "Mr. Squeakl had personal, business and political ties to the companies that the Commission was studying." That can't be a reason for a witness. Because you've been studying the handling of the purchase of armor 8x8, not the business and personal connection of Mr. Cwickle. If we wanted to resolve it, we would have put forward a proposal, but we would have discussed it with the National Assembly, not that you went along a path that is unacceptable to be proposed for a witness to a matter that is not the content of the powers and tasks of the commission of inquiry. You shouldn't have done that. This just means that you have been looking for ways to prevent Mr. Squeak from leading the commission further.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u158	He has a word, as it were, for Member Rudy Veršnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. What happened, I think, had to happen sooner or later. Mr Rezman as a peace-loving Member, Mr Sok was also a peace-loving and constructive Member who was forced to leave this Commission. I myself have a great deal of experience from the Commission for the supervision of public finances, led by Mr Cvikl. And by getting out, I'm absolutely not surprised. Many times, however, it has been said in a joke that those of us on this committee will be given double years for this. I don't think that's gonna happen, but the pain and suffering are great, believe me. I would understand everything in some way, but there is no way that I can understand that the Commission or the President and its members, who supported it, have embarked unreasonablely on this project by appointing a man who we know comes from a competitive company, we know that he is familiar with the weapons and we give him documentation from which he can certainly, as an expert, understand things that, as a serious state, should not be allowed to examine it. It's definitely technical information. If he wanted to make an expert assessment, he needs to know the technical data, otherwise he can't give an evaluation. And I'm sure it was a big mistake, and for me, it was a betrayal of state secrecy. And this act was reckless, and it was damaging to the reputation of our country, certainly. Otherwise, we all know, Mr President, that in the heat of his charge or his work he is capable, or rather, of incapacitated to think realistically about the consequences that follow. He's yelling at some goal, the same thing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u160	My colleague, colleague Veršnik [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u161	Even on the Commission [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u162	Comrade Veršnik [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u163	Please, do I have a right or do I have no right to say?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u164	No, you don't have the right to disqualify someone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u165	Please [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u166	whether he's capable of thinking or unable to think. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u167	That's it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u168	Comrade Versnik, I beg you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u169	Excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u170	Pay attention to your words [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u171	I'm sorry, I've been a victim of this many times, and now I have the opportunity to say it and not make it up, but I've actually been a victim of so many such distortions and comments, unwarranted and I won't let you take my word again. I won't allow it!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u172	If you continue in the content as you are, I will take it from you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u173	Mr. President, keep your affairs to yourself. I am sorry, of course, I am sorry, for such a refusal by Mr SD President, who refuses any cooperation on this committee. I was sure that you would react rationally and you would propose to someone else and that the commission would continue its work and the work would be completed in the final stage. However, if you have found that you no longer want to participate in this committee, of course this is your option, but I am sure that it would make sense to propose someone and conclude the matter as it should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u174	Thank you very much. However, Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u175	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear brothers and sisters, what I am hearing now is not in the context of the speech given by the President of the National Assembly a few weeks ago or 14 days ago in the National Assembly, which spoke about the family life of our Members and Members of the National Assembly, the relations between us. And I am listening today when the vast majority of the representatives of the ruling coalition, Comrade Cwickel after Jurčič, have declared him the 10th brother and are also trying to exclude him from this family circle. What you are doing, the government majority in the National Assembly, is precedent, as has already been said today, which may have a negative impact in the next term on the continued functioning of the investigative commissions in the National Assembly. In doing so, I call it the "puč" or the discharge of the President by the only investigative commission led by the opposition Member, you are also indirectly suspending parliamentary supervision, the parliamentary institution of control of the opposition over the ruling suit. By doing so, you remove control by will from the current ruling elite, and you bring the ruling elite into a situation where it also controls its own government, which it nods. Given the obvious fact that clienteleism and despotism have been systematically incorporated by the Government in this term into its way of functioning and governance, this abolition of parliamentary control is an even worse error in this mandate. And apparently, Comrade Squeakle, with his zeal, with his meticulousness and not least, you must admit this, even with his expertise he has deepened the matter too much and has come too close to identifying the weapons lobby that I have already talked about in Slovenia today. Lobi, who have been in their position in Slovenia for 17 years and have been changing stickers on their "mail mailboxes" during these seventeen years. On one occasion, they were members of the logistics centre in the Ministry of Defense and later became lobbyists and are now brokers in arms transactions. However, on their mailboxes, of course, the stickers have been replaced. And that's it. And this weaponry is supported by you in the ruling coalition. People who know the situation, I am not a great know-it-all, but know-it-all know-it-all, that everything since 1990 is also the basis for today's tycoonism, which we're talking about, today's big tycoons, even in arms deals. So it's been 17 years. And that's it. And these discussions and these discussions you are afraid of in the National Assembly. And that's why it's necessary to throw away the president of the only commission that's come a long way.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Member Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. I will not have any difficulty in voting myself, for Mr Squeakl, by his conduct, has caused him to become an investigator. There was something suspicious about the fact that two of our colleagues left his commission. Apparently, because of the difficult working conditions or the impossible working conditions, one correctly found that if the president had no one else to argue with, he was fighting with himself. But the matter reminds me of similar events in the factories where I was employed. Some top-notch experts applied through a friendly construction company for assembly equipment so that they could hack into Rockwall, the biggest competitor. And something similar happened here when they reported a man working for another company as an independent expert. Therefore, my decision to vote will not be difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I'm supposed to get the word from my colleague, Aurelio Juri. [[He's not here.]] Member Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. [[He's not here.]] It's supposed to have a magic word. Branko Grimes. [[He's not here.]] Next on the list of applicants is Tomaž Štebe. [[He's not here.]] The word has magic. Milan M. Squeakle. [[You're giving up.]] Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u179	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Today's debate is about whether or not Mr Squeakl is fit for this function. I think this is a totally wrong debate, because it doesn't matter at all. It is important to implement and respect a law which makes it very clear that if someone is designated as a witness, he must not be a member or chairman of an investigative commission. And that is all that matters: whether we want this provision implemented or not. And all the discussion about whether or not Mr. Squeakle is appropriate would be superfluous. Once again, it's completely irrelevant. We all probably know that Mr Squeakle is very hard at managing his working bodies, which also suggests that some of our colleagues have long since given up and have given up because they did not want to, probably, burden their nerves. But once again, it doesn't matter at this point in this decision. The National Assembly is obliged to respect a provision of law that states that if a person is designated as a witness, he must not participate in an investigation committee. And we all have to respect that. And according to the provisions and regulations that state that such a decision may be taken by at least three members of the Commission of Inquiry, which has already occurred many times in practice, that the three members have adopted certain evidentiary decisions and that these evidentiary decisions have then been realized, in this case the matter is exactly the same. The three members of the Commission have decided to hear Mr Cvikl as a witness and it is simply necessary to implement this provision directly on the basis of the law on parliamentary investigation and to adopt the proposed decision, which is now on the agenda and on which we must vote. If we want the law to be respected, then we have no choice but to adopt this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u180	Thank you very much. However, Member Anton Anderlich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u181	We have more options. At least two: either for or against. The only question is how you decide. But that question is superfluous because you are already determined or have an order as to how. Such a simple script, yet amazing. It started with reading in the newspaper Finance, I think July 13th of a year, the ruling party says, we've made a great deal for the Slovenian Army, and this is what the world of the party confirms with applause. Let us read from this event a statement of what has already been mentioned many times today, which has been involved in all business since then in the logistics battalion and so on. I ran it through the Ministry to see this happen, and this, and I made a deal with these guys from the Ministry with the Finns, and we got a deal. It happens that the Minister receives an order to prevent, prohibit members of the National Assembly in December 2006, to take a look at the tender documents, to look at the contract, to see everything that is supposed to be the biggest business, and I believe that it is the largest in the history of Slovenian military supplies, equipment that is needed. And it goes so far as to include the President of the National Assembly in the writing of a letter to him to keep the honourable Members from doing so, that view. And of course, the complications continue, the data is hidden, and he does not want to present what was actually happening with this business. Fortunately, there are also some press houses and journalists that have been successful and have been able to dig up a lot of information on how this business was done transparently. We have come to shocking conclusions: business is bad, business is unfinished, money is spent more than it was intended for, and another 25 vehicles are not equipped to talk about all other things. It was imperative to visit the last democratic instrument available to Parliament, that is to say, to establish a parliamentary commission of inquiry and, following procedures that were just discussed without joking, to question all witnesses who knew about it, to identify the investigators or the investigators, to carry out all those preparatory work and, finally, to carry out the evidentiary procedures and so on. But, look at the fraction, when it happens, even more, the alleged very severe accusation of those who participated, i.e. with the Finns, to question, it has been known for more than a year that the Slovenian authorities have also been persecuting that there was something suspicious about this business and that the Finnish police have been investigating this connection for a long time, but nothing. Moreover, answers are given as to how they should not say anything and so on. I suppose that's because all roads lead to two people who have strict instructions from one address or from a third party. But I believe in this hand of justice that it will come this far. After expecting less evidence when someone has been imprisoned in Finland for two months, they close another. That means they have more evidence, and it's not about having fewer. But we still have nothing. And finally, when we have to defend the institute that is a matter for the parliament of the world, you, I will not say that this is a matter of conceitedness, arrogance, blindness, I don't know what this is about, but I believe that you can't just make someone up to be a witness, that you'll make it impossible for them to work on an investigative committee, at the same time for the period for which you accuse Mr. Squill of cooperating with someone I don't know, we had another investigative procurement commission by 2007 and everything that has to do with it. Not there, but here, to lead the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Your Honor! It was said that the institute of the commission of inquiry should be respected. And that's what this is all about. If we consistently defend the Institute of the Investigative Commission and also its tradition in the National Assembly, then the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, Ambassador Cwickle, would have withdrawn from the presidency and from the Commission earlier. As I have pointed out yesterday, Mr Squeakl and Mr Rope were obviously admitted to Social Democracy to be building structures at the expense of the current government, at the expense of Mr Janez Janša, and Mr Squeakl at the expense of the Minister of Defence and all those involved in certain matters. It is more than obvious that Mr Rob is aware of this and has not attended yesterday's debate and is not participating today, he is probably a victim and a tragic hero in this matter, but he has come to realize it too late. However, Mr Squeakl is very faithful, very consistently carrying out the task assigned to him at the time of his accession to the Group of Members. We know how he led the investigative commission, that he had practically experienced the protests of all, including his opposition colleagues by the towers, everyone held their head in such a way that it was not possible to cooperate and work. Of course, the political objective was higher, which is why the parliamentary group did not withdraw it, although it would defend the good name of this Parliament. And it is also in the interest of this institution to protect itself from abuse that it is necessary to respect consistently the Law of Inquiry, which clearly states that a person who is in conflict or who is designated as a witness cannot be a member or chair of that commission. And if it is not clear to anyone that the circumstances that Mr. Swickl has identified a person who should have been excommunicated by all laws because he knew precisely from the preparation of the expert report, but introduced industrial espionage in this area, he has also tried in some way to harm certain brands in Slovenia, a certain company. These are so obvious matters that the next Commission of Inquiry simply has to conduct a hearing for such conduct. This is a very strong soak in the matter, and it is clear that this parliamentary commission has been introduced primarily to cover up past cases and past cases. Since this thing has not been quite successful, there are now some separate opinions that are illegal. Only the Commission can present opinions, reports and separate opinions. But since the parliamentary group is consistently violating the rules of procedure, all the rules of conduct, what is still being presented here is what is still locked behind the doors and in other premises in a central committee of this party. Mr. Squeakle is a "spokesman" of this and he faithfully endures it. This clairvoyant role is actually going to end in this way, and I am in favour of the law on parliamentary investigation being respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u184	Thank you very much. In accordance with the agreement, Comrade Squeakl, in accordance with your allocated time, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u185	I would like to tell my colleague Jerovšk that if he were to protect the Institute of the Commission of Inquiry, he would then be invited three times, John Janša, the 12th Witness, to respond and come to the National Assembly to explain what he had said at the previous hearings of the Moget Commission of Inquiry and what the witnesses were saying at these hearings of the Commission of Inquiry. If I were to be protected by the ruling coalition of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. And that's what this is about. On 1 July, the Presidency stopped and Janez Janša could respond to a letter from the President of the Commission, which he has since 12 June, to tell him when he can come. It was therefore necessary to prevent the meeting. And the second reason that the Finnish investigative authorities wanted to know about them was that they had an incomprehensible background, why for one year the complete rest of the organs were being persecuted in Slovenia. And that is why it was also necessary to prevent the abuse of this computer, the computer of the commission, the web addresses, my emails, the meeting with the Finnish investigative authorities. And, Mr Jerovšek, about industrial espionage. The last person to convict me of industrial espionage in this case has been Patrie for two months now incarcerated. And the other representative, Patrie, who took his picture with Mr Črnkovic and some others in Patria's presentation to the Chamber of Commerce, is also closed. I suppose it's because of their health. And that's why I'm just happy that you're changing me to liquidate me as chairman of the commission. I don't have a problem with that. Not to claim that in order to protect you, as you said before, the work of the commission of inquiry. Then we would invite John Janša to the Black Commission of this or that, and we would be allowed to come and explain how they are doing according to his instructions in 1991, 1993, and how they are trading in one way or another. That's why he's going here, gentlemen. And the report that we have prepared on the regulation of the selected documentation, Mr Gričar and Klavora, a report that is top secret and here I have a copy that is internal, would be considered in this Chamber. At that time, colleagues should ask themselves if these 110 events were accidental. Was it by chance that at these 110 events, at 50%, John Janša was involved or even coordinated? That's what this is about, gentlemen. Therefore, the Commission is here to determine the responsibility of the public function holders who have drawn up a contract in the Government and to establish a suspicion of direct or indirect connection [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u186	Comrade Squeakle, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u187	I'm done.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u188	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u189	Intermediate linkage of the arms trade and that. [[...]] That's what you're afraid of, gentlemen. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u190	Comrade Blackwich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u191	That's what you're afraid of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u192	The replica can't be replicated, but I'll grant it to you exceptionally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u193	Procedurally, I would like to ask the President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u194	Procedurally, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u195	Mr President, I do not know whether I have previously misunderstood or not whether Mr Squeakl has a special privilege in the National Assembly or its rules, as the rest of us Members, do not apply. I also allow this option because it really is a unique option. And if that's the case, then I'll take it. Previously, you said that every five minutes, within the time we have at our disposal, we're also going to take away the time we're going to spend on replicas. Mr. Squeakle has spoken for the third time. Before he spoke twice after three minutes, so he was already one minute in the minus, now he's got five minutes again and has two more minutes at his disposal. And I would ask you, Mr President, if you would explain to me whether this rule applies to Mr Milan Martin Cwickl and to Tinker Bell is not applicable, then of course I will accept it with understanding and regret. Well, that's the way it has to be. But it's different, as we've heard, Mr. Squeakle, a master of closed-circuit manipulation, with classified information. It's about to happen now, too. We've had quite a chance to get to know this. I think things were very distasteful. I don't think that's good. It's too serious to talk about them that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u196	Thank you for asking. Indeed, at the College it has been stipulated that a Member of Parliament has 5 minutes in the framework of its debate. As you know, I allowed my colleague Squikel a replica when he was mentioned by which speaker. The same goes for the other Members of the National Assembly. If we used this to the end, we wouldn't have gone anywhere, and I told him in his second performance that I would count his replicas in time. That is why, regardless of future debates, Comrade Squeakl has only two minutes left. And I'll also allow you, Comrade Chernač, a replica if one of the speakers mentions you. That's why I've also been willing to give you a replica on a replica that I don't normally or never give otherwise. We have the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The situation we're in right now is not presuming, because otherwise I shouldn't have given anyone a replica. I hope I've explained to you that you are pleased, too. Member Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u197	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office. I will support the proposal of the Mandate-Electorial Commission to resolve the current President of this Commission, Mr Brickle, for two reasons. Firstly, since it is right that the National Assembly respects the business rules and the law on this committee. And another is a substantive reason, which shows more than plainly that it would be meaningful and also effective for us to come to the bottom of this matter in order to be led by someone else. He certainly never wanted this commission to be informed of the facts which it should also investigate, but this commission was primarily a polygon to deal with some of the companies that received this deal and to discredit certain people who did not actually have anything to do with this business. Undoubtedly, he was in a position to do so with this committee and also with numerous witness statements when he got involved. And this was undoubtedly the reason why the members of this committee found that it would be very important and useful for him to be heard on this committee. When this Commission, I think, already on 10 June or some members, has already proposed that it be heard as a witness, this fact has been completely ignored, ridiculed, and here is the key reason why things have stalled to this day. If it were indeed the intention, including social democracy, of social democrats, to bring this matter to its end, they could immediately support this proposal, then on account of the business provisions of the new president or candidate, which could have been confirmed long ago by the National Assembly as President and could continue the work of this Commission. However, it was obviously not of this interest because it was known that there could be a lot of unpleasantness at these hearings, which would be detrimental to their member or to Social Democracy itself. And here is the key problem, why now, with various statements and deceptions, they try to represent as if the coalition was the one that made it impossible for the Commission to work. That's just not true. Even today, we could also appoint a new president, and even before the elections, a final report could be adopted by this committee, which would be quite different from what Mr Squeakl, Mr Moge and Mrs Zalokarje presented yesterday. For there is no doubt that in this report there are many untruths, deceptions, if not even lies that have been denied by those who know something about these matters. Mr Potrč stated that it would be uncomfortable not to have come to the public with the many things that had been found on this committee. It just doesn't hold. Mr. Squeakle has been putting in public all the time. But everything that has happened or hasn't happened on these committees has been discussed in public for a long and wide time. But the truth is, they were untruths. Yesterday's press conference is also holding this, because all that was said was falsehood and lies. Even in the debate itself or in the conduct of this commission of inquiry, it was possible to detect a monologue on the part of Squill, where the investigating witnesses were actually compelled by some of the claims. And the Witnesses had no chance of answering questions or disputing those statements that he then put in public, as if they were actually certain facts. Undoubtedly, if it were of interest, the Commission would also have a report that could be adopted. With the right conclusions, we could have done this a long time ago, and it is not too late today. Let us therefore propose in the types of Social Democracy a candidate who will lead this committee, and by the end of this term, I am confident that this commission can adopt this report, which will be credible and will point to events that have taken place before [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u198	Thank you. Comrade Squeakle, you've only got two minutes at your disposal, then I'll take your word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u199	Mr Grill, it happened on June 6th, before June 10th, when colleague Anderlič and colleague Juri proposed my hearings at the parliamentary investigative committee, which identifies the period when I was the holder of public functions. Mr. Cernač found out: Squeak's name is not mentioned anywhere. We're not going to choose him as a witness. And Mr. Bajc joined in on this. Mr Jelinčič, however, was correct and proposed on both occasions. And these are the facts, gentlemen. And if you once proposed me as a witness, and the ruling coalition has chosen not to hear me out, then you must explain to me which right I have not or have it yet to question me, but do not question Mr Mojet and Mrs Cvetko Zalokar Orazem, who have done the exact same thing. And the reason is very simple: if you invited all three of them, you would see more clearly that you were stopping the work of the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u200	Thank you. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Our commission wasn't investigating business 8x8, our commission was investigating something else. On our committee, Mr Squeakl voted in favour of his own hearing, so I do not know why he is so insistent on this on his committee. We didn't have anything to question him about. He was proposed to be interrogated for some of the other things I'm going to talk about below. Parliamentary supervision is governed by the 1993 Law and Rules of Procedure. Today was repeatedly spoken, opposition: position. Parliamentary supervision does not divide between the positions and opposition Members, but speaks of a third of the members of the National Assembly who propose an investigation and have to be designated by the National Assembly on such a proposal. Unfortunately, in the past, the opposition has never collected such a high quorum. As a result, a number of investigations that should have been determined in the past in this House have not been determined. And that's why she was appointed only in this term. And with that, I think, there's nothing wrong. On the basis of Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure, the three Members, two from the position, Mr Hrovat and Mr Bajc, and one from the opposition, Mr Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti, proposed a hearing by Mr Cwickl on the basis of Rule 12 of the Rules of Procedure. Why? Because of their past actions, it was particularly significant regarding the involvement of Dr. B.’s expert, because it was clear that there was a conflict of interest and despite the fact that they had repeatedly pointed out that there was a conflict of interest and that it should be exempted from this because of its inability to do so, they were questioned, determined or suspected that there were other links. That this is a matter of connecting Mr President with an undertaking which has not been selected on this call. It is likely that in the light of further developments any of the documents in this regard will still be found, but it has already been doubtful enough that, in accordance with the law, they have proposed exactly the same as the other three Members, Mr Cvikl, Mr Moge, Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem, on the basis of the same law, they have made the same provisions regarding the Breakdown, on individual witnesses and so on. We heard it today. It is said that in this case the law is valid and no one has objected to it. In another case, where three other Members have proposed this, the law should not apply. For this reason, it is a miracle that the Social Democrats object to respect for the law. Instead of proposing another person at the earliest opportunity when this request came on 10 June and allowing the investigation to be completed, they put themselves at the disposal of their President, if not, but not him, and he is not allowed to be heard in this House under any circumstances. Why not? He's probably the same as all of us here. And that's the problem, ladies and gentlemen. Clearly, that is why we cannot reach this conclusion. Let us ask ourselves if this committee would have a report at this meeting of the National Assembly if this proposal were to be adopted. Six wouldn't be. I wouldn't have! We heard yesterday, a partial report was presented. In the course of the meeting of the National Assembly, a partial report was just presented, and this also said that it was not possible to object or confirm the suspicion. Please! The Commission was not intended to encourage further doubts, but to come to some conclusions and to say that this is where it can be found and that it is not possible to find out. Nevertheless, I think that all that has been done at this level has been the re-establishment of suspicions of some of the weapons transactions of the 1990s, which, ladies and gentlemen, have not been able to bring to an end in all three or four mandates or to find that anything has been disputed. And even in this case, you could not find out, which is why we would like to continue with these suspicions. That's not good, especially not because it's obviously a serious matter for a patriot. That would be a good reason for us to come to this report. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have said that we are ready to sit on as many extraordinary now as it is necessary to reach the final report. However, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, you are on the move, because I am sorry that we cannot propose to the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Comrade Squeakle, you've got a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u203	Enough time to present clearly the decision contained in the partial report in accordance with Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure. The National Assembly cannot remove the suspicion that the business has been politically negotiated, run intransparency, that it is uneconomic in nature. The National Assembly notes that there is a presence of clientelism and corruption in this business. The National Assembly notes that, contrary to the applicable legislation, financial flows from the sale of arms were carried out during the period 1991-1993, both in cash and in the use of an account abroad. We note this in a partial report and we presented a partial report to the Slovenian public yesterday, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in order to present a partial report by the conclusion of the work of the National Assembly. And the session with the partial report was convened for July 1st, and it was with [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] The "state coupe" on Mr Hroat's committee and with the cooperation of the Secretary-General, the President of the National Assembly, were unfortunately cancelled. [[...]] These are the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Comrade Squeakle. Procedurally, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u205	Mr. Chairman! Comrade Squeakl discredits this National Assembly when presenting, as he says, the opinion in the partial report. As far as I know, and the fact is that partial reports can only be accepted at the final meeting of the Commission of Inquiry. That's not what happened! And just as colleague Cvikl has always violated business and legal regulations, you are now allowing him to do so in front of the Slovenian public. It is important to inform the Slovenian public that these are made-up things. There is no such partial report. This may be the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats. They have the right to do so, but not after that, and Mr President, you have the duty of Mr Squill to take seriously the conduct that is illegal and discredits the work and reputation of the National Assembly. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek, you know that if you tried to direct today's debate, today the point is just - look, now you just told me that [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the rules of procedure to be followed. [[...]] If I wanted to stick to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, no one should talk about the content of the work of the Commission today. They spoke from both the ruling and the opposition. Today, at least legally and formally, it is only the replacement of Mr Squill from the post of President of the Commission. All of us have broken the rules of procedure so far, allow me, we have only three debaters to complete this point in the best hope. I'm another procedural proposal - no, thank you. No, Comrade Squeakle, I won't give you procedurally. The word is from a colleague of Rudolf Moge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u207	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We can be proud in the National Assembly that Slovenia has always been, as far as successful work is concerned, at the top of all countries in transition and that the first of them has also led the European Union, that we have done a lot, while the black mark hangs over it right in the arms trade. Slovenia, I can say from my own experience, I have already gone through four electoral periods, is in fact a land of arms affairs and so far no arms affair has ever been cleared up to the end and we drag it back like Sisyphus to the mountain and, almost when we want to get to the top, this stone slides back into the valley. If we just look at history, just for a short while. Zoran Madon, who was the first to bear this cross of the commission of inquiry as president, received so many threats that he did not even hope to finish his work and the National Assembly finished its work without considering these matters at all, as the report was not prepared. The Commission, which I myself led, prepared an interim report, the National Assembly adopted it, was the final report, but only the case was that the government had changed then, only the case was that there was an unknown policy then in Slovenia, Mr Andrej Bajuk became Prime Minister, and it was only a case that he went when this commission had to come to its conclusion, Mr Janez Janša, to the Ministry of Defence. These were just cases. But despite this, the commission has finished its work, and has proposed to the National Assembly to deal with it. The National Assembly accepted this and instead of packing it, because the current coalition had the majority at the time, and they would close the story - nak! These points, although placed on the agenda, have never been considered and all the work of the Commission has been in vain. Now that Comrade Cwickle has led this committee now, and when the third time he has taken this cross on his shoulders, we are listening here to some justified, but enormously only unjustifiable critics on his account, which he has done well, but almost no one is dealing with neither corruption nor clientelism nor what is good for this country, not what is bad, but they are trying to cover up the manoeuvre in a very subtle way, only that the truth of this matter would not be revealed. Once a fellow magician. Squeak, you started getting hit on the head - when you touched the weapons and witnesses in the 1991-1993 case. That's when it all began to escalate into many parts. Truthfully, I expected Prime Minister Janez Janša to attend, when he was a witness, said and burdened himself with any suspicion against himself, but so many times he objected to his apologies or to the committee's failure to respond, that in the end we had come to the conclusion that if we waited for him, we would never be able to close the matter and that, Mr Robert Hrvat, that then those who proposed him also for the witness said that it would no longer make sense for him to stop, that we would finish our work. And when we came almost to the end when the President had a report prepared to start talking about him and to try to tell the truth to the National Assembly, each one of his own, something would certainly be what we would have accepted together, but otherwise separate opinions would have been discussed here with arguments. Nuck! At that time, you planted with all three hands, like Caesar Brutos and the others, in the back of my colleague Milan Cwickle, whom I must say he was working honestly, working hard and at least letting him finish his job. That is how we will end this mandate - again, without doing anything in this area. The books are outside, read them, and shame is for this state of Slovenia, that even after 17 years you have all the power in your hands, you can't close this story once. It's a shame to think so! And instead of talking about things, in a manner like that, like the Slovenians, we're throwing stones and beating with burners all the presidents of the investigative commissions and cursing them in inappropriate terms, instead of once facing the truth and trying to look the truth in the eye and then we could go calm at the end of this term. This will leave one of the black stains on what we've been doing for four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u208	[[...]] [[The microphone's not on.]] Procedurally. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u209	I saw two more hands in front of you. I ask, is there really a need for procedural proposals? If there is no need, for the other two: colleague Zagorac - cancels, colleague Cvikl - cancels. My friend Pukšič, you are not giving up That's a replica, Comrade Moze. [[...]] My friend Pukšič - your procedural proposal is?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u210	Thank you very much. My procedural proposal is that, in the case of such a reference, as my colleague Moge has now had, the truth must be told and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the law. Therefore, my procedural proposal is that the Commission of Inquiry has also worked at that time under the law on the work of the Commissions of Inquiry, and Article 23 of this Regulation states that the Commission of Inquiry must submit to the National Assembly, in due time and at the latest by hearing at the last meeting of the National Assembly, a report on the course and determination of the investigation. The Commission of Inquiry, led by its colleague Moge, prepared only an interim report, so it did not prepare the final report for the first time. Secondly, his commission of inquiry had a majority in Parliament, a purely liberal democracy and the Social Democrats. And thirdly, if a person undemocratically interrupts a report which has been prepared, adopted on a committee given in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, by law on the Commission of Inquiry in the National Court of Justice, it was a fellow Member of Parliament, Potrč, who proposed to withdraw the point at the last meeting of the National Assembly. And they voted that the point had retreated, which, of course, was "holding the stand", both the Liberal Democrats and the United List. And since they removed the point of damage to social property, then, of course, we couldn't deal with it, which would, of course, have, I believe, as a result, that all of these filth, selling thousands of businesses under the table over Kada and Soda, would later not have happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I sincerely hope that you will take the well-meaning, Comrade Pukšič - do you know what point we are at? If you want me to put your procedural proposal to the vote, give it to me in writing, otherwise I will ignore it, as I think it will be the majority of the Members. My colleague, Miran Potch, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr President, just 20 seconds outside the agenda. Mr Pukšič never says that he was the first to give me a witness in order to get me out of his commission of inquiry, because I was too nervous when he broke the Rules of Procedure and the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. That's part of the truth, too. He was just unlucky enough to get Mr Bevek, who was just as small as I was, and therefore was very difficult in his own way and led an investigative commission by his methods. It's not like that. I think it's right to say that many gentlemen in the coalition judge others by themselves and by their own actions. We have been talking all the time, at least I claim this for myself and also for Mr Squeakle, about whether the conditions for Mr Squeaky to be proposed for a solution were in place or not. And to this, I understand, Mr Kovacič also critically directed you, when he said, about nothing but these conditions, we need to talk about, but you were talking about the character of Squeak, and how it should be the fault and the like of what tasks he had to come and when he came to our task force, which is all mere conduct in his own image. That's how you make plans, and you think anyone else is making them. Otherwise, the following is important for the functioning of this Commission of Inquiry. It would be right to try to read and explain the content of Article 12 of the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation and to find it clear and literal that the Commission of Inquiry must accept and implement the evidence required by one third of the members of the Commission of Inquiry - that it must accept and implement them, it is said that it has no right to reject them. Only this means that the Commission of Inquiry must be informed of this and this has not been done because the Vice-President of the Commission of Inquiry has made it impossible for the Commission of Inquiry to meet and find that such a request has been made for Mr Squill to be heard as a witness. And the same goes for the report. The report was prepared, given to all members of the Commission of Inquiry, placed on the agenda, could be concluded by the Commission or not, could be rejected, could be supplemented, but not ready to discuss the report. I and this is what is essential for the work of this investigative commission, which has been forcibly interrupted by Vice-President Hrvat. And in the end, just the following. You want us, the Group of Social Democrats - and someone has even promoted me to the president, I must say that I am not the President and I will not, and I am also the leader of this Group until the end of the term - to prepare me in the position that we are to blame because the Commission cannot finish its work. No, that's not true. That's a fat lie. That's a fat lie. You would like to discharge the President of the Commission with an illegal procedure, but you have imposed upon us the obligation to propose a new member and thereby agree to your illegal conduct. Gentlemen, we cannot and will not land on your illegal conduct! You still have the opportunity not to resolve Mr Squill, you have the opportunity to continue your work in the commission of inquiry, everything you have said today, if you are ever prepared to read the tapegram of your own words, you will find that you do not have any formal legal and business basis for proposing Mr Squill as a witness, but above all as a witness, and that is why the Mandate- volitional Commission should not have proposed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u213	Thank you very much. My friend Blacky, procedurally? Comrade Blacky, I don't think you've been named. Comrade Potts, did you name a colleague of Blacks?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u214	Because I was talking about what Mr. Potch was saying. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u215	No, no, no. Thank you very much, Comrade Chernač, allow us to take this point to the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u216	I know, Mr. Chairman, but the rules of procedure are very clear, not about names and appointments, but about whether [[...]] [[End of discussion.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u217	The word is from a colleague of Jože Tanko. Here you go. The word is from a colleague of Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I hope I can say it all the way. Mr Mog, don't interrupt me and attack me, just like you did on Mr Bajc's investigative committee. It is obvious that the traumas, the political traumas of the past, as far as weapons are concerned, are extremely deep, extremely severe and that those who so far have had the opportunity to work in these investigative commissions investigating weapons are now trying to throw ashes in one way or another. The fact is that in three mandates, when you had a political majority in the National Assembly, when you had your chairman of the investigative commissions, you were among them, too, on this investigative commission, regarding arms trafficking, you discovered nothing. In a quiet room or where there are approximately 3 metres or 5 metres of archives, it would certainly be easy to draw some conclusions or conclusions and propose them to the National Assembly, which would or would not take the conclusions and actions proposed. It's all art. Whether in this case it is ignorance or incompetence, I do not get involved in this, but the fact is that in the 12 years, three investigative committees have been working, if I am not mistaken, and not one at this point has actually found anything - well, two, eight years! A long, long, long period; for anything to come to light, that is all it takes is some knowledge and some will. I reject any claim or suggestion that this is a legally incorrect solution in this case. In fact, I have already stated in the position of the Group of Members that, in the case of Mr Cwickl, it is both a matter of political involvement, of business involvement and of personal involvement in the work of the Commission, which is conducting an investigation into a certain part of the procurement of 8x8. It is a hard core of the former Liberal Democracy, both the former Prime Minister and the Minister, who was both involved in the decision to sell and in the decision to sign a letter of intent for 8x8 without a public contract. He hired an expert or helped to engage an expert from Viator&Vector who owns the System Technology, which means that in this case it is a business connection between an unchosen tenderer and an analysis of the offer of a selected competitor of a competing company. In short, it's a complete conflict of interest. It bothers me or something bad gives me the feeling that we have been convicted of trying to refer to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. Mr Potč mentioned this in the position of the Group of Members. That's not true. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service in this case has clearly concluded that all business and all legal bases are given for this procedure and for this proposal by the three Members, and that, apart from that, I do not know what is in fact doubt. Political doubts or political objections, technical or substantive objections, cannot be met because the legal conditions are met. I think it would be appropriate if Mr Squeakl, when he is so deeply involved in the Systemic Technology, is being investigated and this investigative committee was also created to essentially get himself out of this investigative commission. This would mean something for the hygiene investigation in this case, and it is in fact a person who is involved, which, by my judgment, is "intoxicated" in this case and produces various conclusions, various insinuations. I don't think there was any need for this commission to obtain a variety of historical books from the arms trade and so on. In short, covering these decisions to be taken in this committee in this way [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] is completely inappropriate and unnecessary. [[...]] And that is why we will and will support this proposal itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u219	Thank you very much. During your debate, I saw a few wishes for a procedural debate. If I open and allow the possibility of one procedural proposal, I inform the other Members present that I will allow any of them to make a procedural proposal. And now it's your call. Does anyone want procedural or not? Are you withdrawing your proposal, Comrade Squeakle? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I concluded the debate, and we will move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. I ask the Members and Members present whether we can go to the vote. Explanation of voice. I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, a fellow Member, Rudolf Moge, will speak. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As I have already said in the opening statement, in the opinion of the Group of Liberal Democrats, we will not support this shameful proposal. However, to make the matter clear and clear once, "Urbi et Orbi" to see how some members of the Democratic Party work, and I just tell you this, I have a book here, the credibility of what is quoted, are the words of Janez Podobnik, who writes: "The President and Vice-President of the Commission of Inquiry, Rudy Moge and Janez Per, have received special recognition at a closed meeting because they have obviously conducted a parliamentary commission of inquiry correctly and laborably. I firmly believe that today's debate is an important contribution from the National Assembly that some sensitive issues related to arms trafficking will finally move forward." The interim report was adopted here and the Liberal Democracy had a majority. Here, respected colleagues and colleagues, the agenda of the 55th extraordinary session has been cleared. The 27th paragraph reads: "Report of the Commission of Inquiry on the involvement and responsibility of the holders of public functions in relation to the finding of weapons at the Maribor airport and with equipment and weapons in the Ložnica warehouse." This was delivered to the National Assembly. The National Assembly received this, but it did not deal with it, and the majority - when we should have accepted it in this National Assembly - had the current coalition. So, also the Democratic Party of Slovenia. These are the truth, ladies and gentlemen. That's the truth. And all of a sudden, in public, there's some wrong opinion, which makes my name go muddy, pisses off all those who worked with me. In particular, it is sad that the work of this committee has been mutilated by those who have participated in it and have even given their separate opinion for this item of the agenda that we should consider - I still have - you have given a separate opinion! And at least we'd accept that and the case would be closed. But that, gentlemen, was not the case. You saw again, I was when I tried to do the right thing and do the right thing by my colleagues here in front of you, oblivious to how I was, how I didn't do my things, what my client was guilty of, even though it was here in the opposition. And please, let's stop working once in the National Assembly for the benefit of our client and think a little about the country. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as I have already said, will oppose the adoption of this decision, as the conclusion and the whole event on it is obviously intended only to avoid the truth being revealed in public once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by fellow Member Boštjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u222	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'll try to stick to the conclusion myself. The Commission, led by its colleague Cvikl, counted less than 10 members. Today, at least 30 of you have discussed how you know how Comrade Squeakl conducted the meetings of this Commission, and you were not members. The difference is whether you obey what you're told, and don't follow what you know and what you believe, what you're used to in the government coalition, and you've proved it, or you don't know it. I must say that Members who were not members of this commission are very difficult to assess; we are listening to the right, we are listening to the left, but those who have been involved in the currents in any way, and we have also been monitoring the functioning of the previous commission, say, those 6x6, we can find that the difference between the two commissions is only in whether on one side a coalition leads and that one was fair, fair, beautiful, and that one has found all the irregularities, and the other, which is led by the opposition, is terrible because it touches the content of the coalition. Excuse me, every gun business is a big-money deal. However you turn the story, this weapon has always been Slovenian. Second fact, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the people around the Government of the Republic of Slovenia always profit from all this business. That was in business with a Maribor weapon, that's in business 6x6, and that's in business 8x8. And the people who listen to us, the citizens and the citizens, I regret that they have to listen to this, because it goes purely - according to their own words - to "shut" SDS against SD and no content anywhere. Once again, I would like to remind you of 2-1 in the weapons business is led by John Janš. He's supposed to be with two pigs, while his colleagues from the Rop government are supposed to be with one of the pigs. And the story you want to tell is: the post office has all the same governments, and in all the arms commissions, this postman is a member and never an interrogated member, because he can adapt a little to you, a little to others. And colleague Jerovšek, when you mentioned the structures of the government. Is it not a construct to appoint a pension minister for the Defence Minister or for the next term you are already planning someone who has been sending weapons to Croatia to save the border? And that's the design, that's the stupid thing people have to listen to! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u223	All those of you who wanted a word on behalf of the Group of Members, you have it. Mr Anderlich, you cannot on behalf of the Group of Members, because Mr Moge has already spoken before. I mean, who wants to do it on their own? Check-in is on. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I will support the proposed decision. I will also support him because there has been a number of inaccuracies in some statements before. First of all, Mr Potrč, a fellow Member, spoke about why we had relieved him of our commission of inquiry at the time, but what he said was not true. It is true that it was resolved because it was signed under the decisions on the validation of the final accounts of revenue and expenditure on the allocation of the surpluses of the National Bank of Slovenia during the period 1986-1989, when the funds were sent for the so-called accelerated higher forms of economic cooperation with foreign countries, and at the hearing, if we wanted to know why and how, we had to discharge it from the commission and then at the hearing, it was not able to give an answer, although it was presented to him that the funds were also used to trade arms with Libya, which was carried out by Dolfe Vojsk and Uroš Aljančič, with Elan's guarantees through a private company in Sweden, and there was no answer to all, except that the reply was that he prevented the hearing of this report in Parliament on 13.9.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u225	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u226	I will not support this decision because we have come too far, gentlemen and lady of the coalition. That in a Parliament such as Slovenia, which I believe is democratic, you are discussing in antiquity discourses where you feel that someone is annoying, inappropriate, cannot perform because of such and different characteristics of his function. Please, all 90 of us in this national council are equal! And what you have allowed today will not be met in any democratic parliament of this world. Perhaps in some regime that remained similar to the former one you so condemned and condemned. Today, read your magnetograms and you will hear it yourself or listen to yourself and you will see what you have been saying. If this is the dignity of parliamentarians, if this is a picture of the Slovenian public, showing how this people should have democratically chosen power to decide all important matters in this society, then we are not well placed. Yeah, a few extensions are that we're going to go into a non-democratic system if we're not very determined in the fall. And the second reason why I will not support this is that when the procedure is at the table of findings, when the process is going in a direction where we can reach some conclusions, this procedure should not be interrupted in the way that it is happening here. Simply suggest him as a witness, no matter what he has nothing to do with it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And 8x8 is that business and 8x8 is a controversial matter in Slovenia, Finland and Europe, in the international space. [[...]] That's it. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u228	I will vote in favour because Mr Swickl was first signed under the proposal to allow Mr Prebil of a competing firm to inspect the confidential documents owned by Patrie, thereby jeopardising the credibility of this country. With all this misdirection and vehement reading of the scandalous fact that the SD Member has abused this Parliament for an obvious attempt at industrial espionage, I can only add that there is a law on mental health that we will face in a few minutes, obviously at the right time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u229	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u230	Well, we obviously end this mandate with a corruption theme, which is not unusual at all, because this mandate was somehow subject to the fact that, above all, the anti-corruption commission is to be removed from the premises of the Slovenian Intelligence Agency, to remove documents that are in any way burdensome for the ruling coalition, to subject yourself to the police, to subject yourself to the prosecution, to try to degrade the court, to subordinate national television, and, of course, in this case, to the fact that we are actually trying to prevent a commission that has apparently come far enough to identify the responsibility of public officials in the greatest arms business in the history of Slovenia, so far as to truly present ourselves to the European public as one of parliaments who appreciates the role of parliament in this regard that it is also trying to carry out its own supervisory function to this limit, that we can talk about decrating in Slovenia. Unfortunately, all that is happening around this point today, when the President of this Commission is trying to be resolved, of course, is moving us away from these facts and, in fact, trying to declare us a society that is domestic corruption. I think that this is really impolite and I wish that, in fact, in this mandate, we would conclude the debate in a completely different way, and that we could actually talk about a step towards the development of democracy, but not that we are trying to lead democracy in a way that prevents those committees, which Parliament itself is also calling to resolve some of the issues. I will therefore vote against this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Matthew Lachovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I will vote against this decision, especially because it seems unacceptable to me that the coalition, the three members of the coalition, has an easy opportunity to resolve the President of the Commission of Inquiry simply because they do not like it, or just because they are afraid of how far he will go with his work. In this mandate, we have already seen that this coalition has established an investigative commission to prevent the establishment of an investigative commission to the opposition. This was the Mercator case. This was the first time in the history of this House that the coalition has misused the rules of procedure and taken away an instrument that is always available to the opposition and adopted it only to prevent the opposition from doing the work for which it was elected to the National Assembly. Today we are witnessing another case where the coalition resolves the president of the commission of inquiry, the same investigative commission demanded by the opposition. Then what remains of the opposition? What else can we expect if there is another term? To end the National Assembly! What particularly saddens me that we are thus concluding our mandate in the National Assembly is the fact that the President of the National Assembly, too, has failed to protect the credibility and reputation of the National Assembly and act as a Member, as President of all opposition and coalition MPs and Members, and at least by his authority to prevent this act. None of this has happened, and today we are making a precedent that is not proud of this house and that will not be proud of the future. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u233	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 25. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by an unrelated member of the Magi. Janez Petty Officer. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the election of a member of the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of Article 10 of the Law on parliamentary control of intelligence and security services, if a majority of all Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a Vice-President of the Commission under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. The proposal was submitted to the assembly by an unrelated member of the Magi. Janez Petty Officer. There are no applications for discussion. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 3rd A-point of the agenda - it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the supplementation of the law on the corporate income tax, by emergency procedure. With regard to this point, two legislative proposals were tabled in the legislative procedure, namely the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, the reduced procedure, EPA 2103-IV, submitted by a group of Members and Members for consideration by the National Assembly, with the first-signed Mr. Miran Porč, and the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, the urgent EPA 2771-IV procedure submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy decided, in the course of its discussion of those proposals, to deal with them in accordance with Article 117, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, he decided that the follow-up procedure, in accordance with Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, would lead on the basis of a proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor to the proposer of the draft law on supplementary explanations. Mr. Mag. Signa Lavrich, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u234	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons complements the existing Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons. The proposed law introduces an investment relief that the debtors will be able to implement for 2008. The proposed facilitation is set out in addition to the already established R & D facility, both general and regional, which has already been significantly implemented by the debtors since its entry into force. The aim of the proposed law is to eliminate the differences between companies already in this stage of the business life cycle, so that they can invest in research and development because of their size, financial power and knowledge, and companies that are only at the beginning of the life cycle and for research and development, but need to invest in order to obtain the necessary resources. According to the proposal of the law, investment is facilitated in the form of a reduction of the tax base for all debtors. Investment relief is applied at 20% of the amount invested, according to the proposed law, but the amount of tax relief is limited to a maximum of EUR 20,000 and up to the maximum amount of the tax base. It became effective in two years, with a maximum of €10,000 in the tax period and €10,000 in the post-investment period. For development reasons, tax relief can only be applied to investments in equipment and to investments in intangible long-term assets. It should be said that equipment does not include furniture and office equipment and motor vehicles. However, computer equipment, cars and buses on hybrid or electric drive and on motorized freight vehicles which meet at least the emission requirements of Euro 6 may also be applied to facilitate. During the transitional period for 2008, the proposal for a law provides for the implementation of an investment facility also for the purchase of motorized cargo vehicles that meet at least the emission requirements of Euro 5. Certain conditions are laid down in the proposal for a relief. The condition that the debtor may grant relief if, during the year of the investment, at least two full-time workers are continuously employed, as determined in order to promote the employment and growth of the debtors. With a view to fair treatment for the debtors, the proposal provides for the transfer of the unused part of the tax relief to the next 5 tax periods with certain limitations in cases where the taxable person does not have a tax base solely for the benefit of tax relief. To avoid duplication of benefits for the same purpose, the rule provides that relief cannot be applied to part of investments already financed in a different way by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia or the self-government of local communities or the EU. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that under the assumption of 20% of the tax rate and the assumption that investment relief would actually benefit the taxpayers who benefited from it in 2006 and taking into account the condition of the number of employees, the public financial revenue generated by the corporate tax would be reduced by EUR 24.8 million, which would cover the burden of other budgetary revenues. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Bojan Starman to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that. I say hello to all of this once again. At its 40th emergency meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal to supplement the law on the income of legal persons. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. Bajc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u238	I didn't notice. Once again, at its 40th meeting, on 8.7., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on corporate tax. At its 142nd regular session 2.7, the College decided that the draft law on the supplementation of the Law on corporate income tax should be considered on an urgent basis. At this meeting, the Committee considered the following item of the agenda as its parent body: to consider two proposals for amendments to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons on the basis of the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As a material for this item of the agenda, they were forwarded to the Committee on the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, the reduced procedure submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mirano Podrč, and the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We have obtained the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on both legislative proposals and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the parliamentary proposal and the proposal for amendments to the Committee on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The government considered that the proposal from the Group of Members was not suitable for consideration. That this gradual reduction of the corporate tax - in order to enforce this amendment of the law, is not necessary, but is already covered by the existing law. However, she explained her proposal for a law, which in some way arose on the basis of the Government’s decision to allow tax relief to small entrepreneurs who are not in a position to benefit from the development benefits provided by this law. We then decided that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, at the same meeting under the same item of the agenda under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament on the urgent procedure for the adoption of law, would consider the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Taxation of the Income of Legal Persons, the reduced procedure, the proposers of the Group of Members and Members with the first signed Mirano Porč and the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Taxation of Legal Persons of the Government of Slovenia. We further agreed that the amended proposal should be prepared on the basis of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, an urgent procedure submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It was only after the procedure that a supplementary proposal for a law not to be included in Article 1 of the draft law of the Member State was to be drawn up. Then we moved on to the consideration of the government proposal for a law, adopted an amendment to Article 2 of this law, prepared a new proposal on the basis of Article 133 of the law, which also contains this amendment. The Committee, having concluded its consideration, also agreed that the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy should propose that the 41st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should include the next item on the agenda, namely the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons. Finally, it was decided that the draft Law amending the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, a reduced procedure submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed Merrant, was not appropriate for further consideration. We propose that the complementary proposal, as submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which introduces tax relief for entrepreneurs, should be accepted by small entrepreneurs, as submitted, in such a form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Exercise on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u240	Good day to you all! The fundamental issue that we are dealing with today is what we are going to do with the bill, as it is now prepared by the parent working body, which will allow a small group of micro, small enterprises up to 10,000, 20,000 euros in one-off relief. And is this better than what we have proposed in the Social Democrats Group, where we have proposed that because in 2008 we have a 25% or a quarter higher tax burden than in 2007 after the adopted state budget rebalancing, but in 2008 we do not apply what is supposed to apply in 2010, which is a 20% tax rate on the income of legal persons. It's a fundamental dilemma. Instead of simplifying, the government would really help the Slovenian export economy, currently struggling with 7%, 8% inflation at the annual level, and would reduce the tax burden from 22% to 20% immediately, i.e. by 10% lower taxes, by 2% lower rates instead of helping businesses now and immediately, decide to go to some mini story micro and small businesses. We will not oppose the bill's proposal to help these companies, but we believe that the opportunity is missed, as we have suggested, by applying the 1 July tax on legal persons' incomes, for all legal entities to have a 10% lower tax burden. If there was anything else we could do. With either a scale or anything, the coalition would succeed, we could help them too. You missed this opportunity and you missed this opportunity in a commercially unacceptable way. You said that in the urgent interest that they are threatened, I don't know what kind of interests, the law that we proposed in the SD Group should be overtaken by some other law under an emergency procedure. It's called business tricks, business abuses or whatever you want. And the fundamental question that we were unable to determine on the Commission is whether, in accordance with Article 117, there are really business reasons for urgency because it has already been politically decided at the College of the President of the National Assembly, without seriously asking what and how. And these days there was a storm in Slovenia. Today, I would expect us here in the National Assembly to adopt a law following an urgent procedure to remedy the consequences of this storm, but not to deal with and deal with some investment relief and to deal with my exchange for three hours. Please, gentlemen of the ruling coalition. You have lost your compass, Slovenian companies have a serious problem in exporting to European, Eastern European, global markets, because Bajuk and Janez Janša are of course incapable of national economic governance and we have accelerated inflation and you are here helping with warm tea. In the meantime, things are happening in the economy that you may not even know about or think you are not responsible for. And then when we propose a marriage, you reject it. You don't even hope to have a discussion about this law. The fact that this is true is evidenced by the fact that, if there were no urgent procedure, this law would not have been dealt with at all. Mr President of the Committee has not even convened a meeting, even though this law has been in procedure since 13 or 12 June. So it is with the management of the Slovenian state in this mandate by this ruling coalition. That's why it's time to say goodbye. This law will not help you not to say good-bye. It is not strong enough, however, if we accepted a possible 10% relief and were relatively cost-effective on the expenditure side, we would have [[?]] and at least the text to be elected [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Friday has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u242	Your Honor! Everyone in this room knows exactly how this law came to be discussed today. It was a kind of scam like that about the Income Act, but it was already a talk. The government has simply decided by means of this manoeuvre, which is called the addition of the Law on Tax from Legal Persons, to reintroduce investment relief into our economy by reducing the tax base by only EUR 10,000 per year and for a maximum period of 5 years. Since the government has decided to lower the tax base only for these minimum values, the tax will therefore be reduced by a maximum of EUR 220 per year in 2008 and a maximum of EUR 200 from 2010. Such a designed relief will actually relieve some micro and small enterprises, while medium-sized and large enterprises do not mean anything, or a drop in the sea of their expectations, at least because of much more investment in modernisation and improvement for these operations and improved competitiveness in the global market, they also expect an understanding of the state in order to achieve their objectives. They don't have that understanding with this law. The Government itself acknowledges in its explanatory statement that the abolition of the aid increased the tax burden on investment investments. We were aware of this in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in 2006 when we opposed the abolition of investment facilities. The effects of the abolition of investment incentives have increased the efficient taxation of companies as no more tax relief can be applied to investments, even though the nominal corporate tax rate has been reduced, but the tax reform is mainly taxed by companies investing in investments. In view of higher taxation, we estimate that companies have passed higher taxes on higher prices, which, of course, end-users have to pay. For this reason, Slovenian inflation is also higher than expected or planned by the Government at the time of the introduction of tax reform. The Secretary-General of the Chamber of Commerce, Viljem Pšeničny, also pointed out at the press conference that the loss of investment relief in 2007 meant that all investments actually increased by around 20%, which indisputably also contributed to the increase in prices. By doing so, we have proved to those who have been and criticized government fiscal policy that Minister Bajuk, who is now traveling with us in America, is deceiving when he claims that fiscal policy has not affected inflation. It took two years for all of this to reintroduce reliefs - of course those that are difficult to say. In two years, the situation has not changed completely. But we are just ahead of the elections, and the government, which the members of the Chamber of Commerce have dipped with more than a thousand faxes requesting the reintroduction of investment facilities, has again satisfied that group of entrepreneurs and craftsmen, who almost always find the right way for the government to be able to prove the need for change. Tax policy is a country's tool for directing the development of the country through tax reliefs as well. The government has listened to smaller economic operators, and to large economic actors who also have major business problems and competitiveness in the global market, it has forgotten again. The reintroduction of investment incentives is a pre-eminent gift which we will not oppose in the LDS due, of course, to the importance of small businesses. In the Liberal Democracy programme, we have advocated the introduction of technological facilitations or investments, which also improve the conditions for environmental management. For this reason, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the proposal of the law, although we believe that we should eliminate the maximum possible amount of tax base reduction at the annual level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that a dynamic and development-oriented economy is one of the foundations of society and, finally, a guarantee of social security for people. A dynamic and developed economy creates jobs and the well-being of people, or if we say otherwise, it provides higher wages, higher pensions and other benefits for citizens. That is why we and we will always support in New Slovenia any measure which will be an advantage to the economy and which will be geared towards development. One such is the proposal for the amendment of the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. The new law enforces the right to investment relief for businesses and businesses, and in particular it will benefit independent entrepreneurs and small and micro-enterprises, as the amount up to EUR 20,000. Small and micro-entrepreneurs need the most, as most of these companies are not yet able to benefit from research and development benefits because they do not have the right research potential. In Novi Slovenija we welcome the Government's prudent decision that, as a condition for the use of investment relief, it has set at least a regular employee. Regular employment means some serious purpose for you to want to develop, expand and strengthen. This will also encourage full-time employment, instead of using cheap student labour. In addition, this relief is not intended for the initial start-up of the company. It is a relief for those who show the ability, innovation and serious intention to stay on the market. If there were no safeguards contained in this law, tax reliefs could be misused so that someone could quickly come to the market, take advantage of relief and leave again. Let me also point out that Slovenia can boast a high share of micro and small enterprises that generate a significant share of gross social product. Entrepreneurs who have the ideas and the courage to enter the market and who are persistent and eager to stay in the market certainly deserve such encouragement because their good work benefits all citizens. On the Committee on Finance, we also talked a lot about the Social Democrats' proposal to move from 22% to 20% of the corporate income tax as of the second half of 2008. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that there is no need for this and that the steps taken by the current law are appropriate. It should be said that, apart from Ireland, the lowest corporate income tax is already in Slovenia, according to other Western European countries, that at the end of 2008 the tax is definitively abolished on paid wages and that other tax and income benefits have a positive impact on the competitiveness of the economy. Finally, immediate suspension is not acceptable from the point of view of budgetary revenue, as this is an important source of tax. More important for small entrepreneurs is certainly an investment relief. Whoever thinks in the long term knows that they have ensured social and financial stability, favourable economic conditions are important. This coalition and this government have offered a number of solutions in this mandate that have had a positive impact on competitiveness, so in New Slovenia we will support the amendment of a law aimed at the development of entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The applicable Law on corporate income tax, adopted in the framework of the 2006 tax reform, was a compromise between tax relief and tax rate. It has eliminated investment facilities and intangible long-term assets, and I am giving more emphasis to the day to facilitate investment in R & D. In practice, it has been found that the tax burden on companies belonging to micro and small enterprises has increased significantly since they are too small to invest in research and development and therefore cannot take advantage of existing tax incentives for this purpose. On the basis of economic initiatives, the Interdepartmental Working Group proposed reintroducing these tax incentives for certain investments. The proposed law aims to eliminate the differences between companies that can invest in research and development and businesses that do not yet have the resources necessary for research and development, but need investment in order to obtain the necessary resources. The proposal provides for an investment relief in the form of a reduction of the tax base for all taxpayers, of course at a limited level and under certain conditions, which we cannot discuss at this time, since the proposal has already been clarified. In the SLS Group, we consider the proposal to be appropriate, as it improves the situation of these micro and small enterprises and we will therefore support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Trophynik on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. Although the proposed law is a twin of the Law amending the Law on Income and it would be appropriate to deal with it at the same meeting. Unfortunately this is not possible, however, first of all comments from an expert point of view. I think that there is innovation in the exploitation of the Rules of Procedure, as two competing laws have been introduced and that this law, which the Government has proposed, has been tabled following an urgent procedure, has, of course, been able to take advantage of the Rules of Procedure by practically excluding it from the discussion and decision-making of the competition law, irrespective of the quality of these two laws. I think that the urgent procedure is misused because, within the meaning of Article 143(1) of the Rules of Procedure, neither of the conditions listed there is met, when a law can be dealt with under an urgent procedure. So much for procedure. Another time. Tax laws which, as a consequence, provide the State budget on the revenue side, are generally treated in parallel with the consideration of the budget or the balance sheet. Here it is that neither the consideration of the budget nor the consideration of the rebalancing was the proposalr's will to propose this law and we could not object to it at all. It is true, however, that this law raises a serious question about the accuracy and correctness of the national budget's tabled balance, since the impact of this law and its double amendments to the Income Act is a total of €53 million. This means that the rebalancing revenues have been planned in such an imprecise way that, by the way, €53 million of budget revenue may be missing from these headings. Nothing new has happened since the rebalancing of the budget, which would require the introduction or consideration of this law. The comments of those affected by the investment benefits, if you want, or the reliefs that were abolished two years ago, were already known. Already in December, there have been known inflows and such a law could be dealt with and adopted in parallel with the rebalancing process, parallel to the budget. Simply, of course, the purpose of the bill, which is written, is to quote: "The aim of the proposed law is to eliminate the differences between companies that are already in this stage of the business life cycle, so that they can invest in research and development and businesses that are only at the beginning of the life cycle and do not yet have the resources necessary for research and development, but they need investment in order to obtain the necessary resources", the end of the quote. If the government has matured or only come to know it now, after dealing with the balance, then something is seriously wrong here or someone is trying to make fun of the National Assembly. Of course, there are also 6 or 7 thousand signatures of small entrepreneurs and craftsmen who will undoubtedly have some effect from this law, although the Chamber of Commerce and many see this change of law as inappropriate or as a clear objective very clear - the September elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It has already been said that we are talking about two laws, and we can only confirm this moment and that there have been two different procedures and this must also be repeated. In the DeSUS Group, we recognize that the Law of the Member was proposed following a reduced procedure and the Government following an urgent procedure, and that what happened in the proceedings is not as correct as it would have been done. In addition, the government law did not link in any way those provisions provided for by the law of the Member State proposed by a reduced procedure. Therefore, even too much or almost only a process has been debated so far, about who is more cunning, who can better use business technology and so on. And a little less time was devoted to the content of the problem itself. But the content is important. The content is to lower tax rates in a shorter time than envisaged, and this is a second proposed option to allow tax relief for what we have heard for micro and small enterprises. An important role, perhaps to note or repeat what has already been pointed out, has been played by a few thousand heads of the crowd of those who are members of the Chamber of Commerce and it must have weighed something down. Solutions for them, in fact, will be beneficial. In the DeSUS Group, we believe it to be the same. Perhaps it would be only right if there were slightly more open hands, more open palms, although this would of course be more burdensome for those who have to draw up the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The purpose, to whom, to how, to what extent, under what conditions is clearly defined and it makes no sense to repeat. However, it is worth repeating at least two more. Firstly, the fact that these tax reliefs, which will certainly be voted today, will only constitute a correctional test for those mistakes that have been made before and which we have pointed out in 2006 when tax legislation has changed. It is also important for the applicants to reiterate that today the applicants still judge that the 2006 law was modern, that it was modern, that, as they say, it was decent, but that it should be amended or amended as soon as possible. So, with this kind of reasoning, in the DeSUS Group, we cannot agree. The fact that the analysis has now been carried out in an interdepartmental group only means that it has been delayed and that these analyses should have been carried out when the law was amended in 2006. We will still support DeSUS in this regard, because it is a correctional exam to be carried out, that we are giving less than these entrepreneurs or micro and small enterprises in the meantime, as well as others. We also support this because we do not think it is as marginal an intervention as some wanted to present it. Of course, we are clearly aware that this is a political instrumentation, which, according to our judgment, does not have the right excuses. I'm not going to say what this political instrumentation means right now. The assessments later, when the law is passed, will be such that the Government or the proponents will certainly be satisfied, will also be satisfied with a large part of small and micro enterprises, but not entirely, some will continue to talk about pre-eminent concessions, about giving in to a specific target circle, some will continue to underestimate this contribution of these tax reliefs, and some will certainly rightly say, "We wanted more and you did not leave". So, DeSUS will support the proposed amendment, while we thought it appropriate to point out some weaknesses once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u252	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian national party, I must say, has always pointed out in the previous mandate that the tax policy for investors was not right and was not right now. The one who wants to invest is the first to be eligible for lower taxes in order to decide on the investment and to make it easier to run the economic cycle. Well, of course, because the Slovenian National Party said that, no one took it seriously, because what we said, and now others are taking it, and they are shitting themselves that they did it. All right, it's important they do this. Now we ask ourselves something else, why did two years ago stop investment reliefs, and today they are just before the elections. And I don't know what kind of science it's probably necessary after two years to stop the investment reliefs of those little ones who were, that it's certainly not a good economic stimulus. Children already know this in primary school when they're learning economics. But in 2006, we abolished investment relief under the pretext of giving more for research and development, well, today just before the elections, we give something back, what we took. It's not fair to people and to act now, how good we are, how smart we are, what we've learned. That is also the case with those who were on the labour force when we discussed the two bills of law, one is the proposal for a bill of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Ptræ, and the other is the government. In fact, the goal would be to achieve both. Mr Potč and this group have proposed that, instead of gradually reducing the tax rate from 25 to 20 by 2010, the effect should be reduced immediately to 20% and the effect would be the same. I'm sure he would be. But, of course, because it is not the right side of Members, regardless of who they were, or who they were, it is not because there are a lot of reasons why the government law is better, even though I think it is narrower by content than the Member's proposal. In short, the goal would be the same, financial consequences we know that there are 25 million euros that will cover the burden of other budget revenues, it's easy to say other budget revenues - now, it would be very nice if you could read in an explanation, which, but obviously nothing matters in this country, these are just for me if a person says what he says, they will think, but now he opposes it is not true. [[...]] No one opposes the reintroduction of a tax relief for investments. But we are opposed to the fact that these reliefs have been abolished for two years, taken away, taken away. We're opposed to that. Nor will the financial impact be much greater or smaller than it would be if these tax reliefs and what is worst is that it is one of the initiators of inflation, which was also a major step in 2006. [[...]] As you know, the withdrawal of reliefs has resulted in an increase in prices and an increase in prices is a driver of inflation. And what we think we're going to fix after two years is that part that's causing spiral inflation. Despite the fact that we will now reduce the tax rate through this law, these two years have caused inflation to be so high that trade unions are already putting pressure on wage rises, which will be greater than the effects that will come with tax reductions. Nevertheless, we will remain in inflation and bear these consequences of late and strange interruptions and the reintroduction of reliefs. In the Slovenian National Party, we will, of course, have to support these reliefs for all small businesses, in order to reduce inflation a little bit and to accelerate economic development a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor, on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u254	Respectable present. My part of the debate, or rather my presentation of the position of the Lipa Group, will also be divided into two parts. One, the political one, much less important, but between us all the more popular and the second part, the part that is usually shorter, more substantive. If the speakers asked before me why the tax reform had taken place, the answer is in hand because those same people who asked questions had joined the Partnership for Development and supported this tax reform. Transposition number one. And allow me, in this political introduction, to stress that, of course, I will not be as professional as some economists before me and blame the resulting inflation, the fault of the union's inflation on tax reform or, rather, tax relief two years ago. Of course, I would not have hoped to say that I would have said that this act was caused two years ago and that today it is the initiator of inflation within our country. I think that this kind of easy talk is sooner to the detriment of a serious monetary fiscal policy than to underpin and to seek or pursue the reduction of inflationary aspirations within our country. This is about the way the President of the Government minimizes the role of social policy, some of you today try to minimize the role and reasons for inflation within our country exclusively to amend this law. For, ladies and gentlemen, at least those who have looked at the law, you know that the content of only one article is article 55a, and if, and I sincerely hope that no one in this country believes that, by amending Article 55a, we can affect the reduction of inflationary burdens or the reality of inflation within our country. In short, I would like to point out that the words of politicians, their apparent concern and, above all, the complete lack of knowledge of public finances, fiscal policies and, finally, monetary policies can be rather harmful than well-intentioned. And now, as part of the second part, when I said that I wanted to talk about the mother-to-mother content of the law before us. On purpose in this work I will also let go and wonder why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with this wise conclusion after the amendment of Article 55a, comes only today. The fact is, we're late. The second fact, which is much more important for consumers under this law, is, of course, the fact that the content of the law is, let us forget that it is recognized that the executive branch of the government itself has done this two years ago, positive for those affected by this law. From this title, I believe that it makes sense, not only because of the possible synergy of tax policy or because of the laffer effect, the reduction or plasticisation of tax rates, but also because of tax revenues from public finances. Above all, and most importantly, at least in the context of the decision of the Lip Group, to support this law, it is a matter of trying to enable economic operators, or better said to entrepreneurs, to introduce their business, ideas into reality. I would also like to further encourage or not encourage the debate, because it will not be possible anymore, but I would like to point out a theory for which I fear that it will not be as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has conceived, namely that the so-called beneficiaries should have the title of these tax reliefs for more free financial resources which they will be able to devote to the new investment cycle. Personally, I'm not one of those people who would hope to pin it on. So, what they're going to do with additional funds available that aren't as high as they want to show up, we don't know. In order to promote the investment cycle, it is an extremely interesting but courageous thesis. Once again, for my part of the conclusion, the law before us, according to my assessment by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, spent about half an hour, maybe an hour and a half, so talk about the fact that there was an expert expert expert group who had consulted for two years, please, this is the content of the amendment to Article 55a and nothing else. It is true, however, that the possible adoption of this law will have a positive impact on those affected by fiscal policy. In the Lip Group of Members, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u255	Thank you very much. And Mr Bojan Starman on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u256	Have a nice hello to you all again! I'm really coming from the economy, and I'm not going to say much about politics. Personally and as Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have been trying from the beginning to improve the conditions of management for both large and small businesses and thus to enable faster economic growth and greater creation of new value by obtaining as much as possible a meal as possible, which could then be shared by our Members and those who adopt different laws. Really, we've done something about it. I would say that the biggest step was to abolish the tax on paid wages. Here we are talking about the amount of over a billion euros, and this gradual abolition was the biggest contribution, thus giving up quite a bit of the tax instalment, then we passed a law that reduces corporate income tax, gradually from 25% to 20%, and that is a positive thing. We have also adopted, in practice, the abolition of investment incentives and their replacement by facilitating research and development. We have seen that this matter is being used very successfully. Many companies invest heavily and use this possibility of tax relief. However, it has been shown that in some small businesses, small businesses, those at the beginning of development, are not able to invest in research and development, so they are somehow disadvantaged and in a worse position than those large companies that have this possibility. Of course, we were trying to correct that mistake. First of all, what are the results of the reduced taxes, including the tax on paid wages, and it proved, of course, as you have seen in the last two, three years, that this has had an extremely positive impact on economic growth, on our development. It is said that fiscal measures, including some other measures, have also been fiscal since the simplification of business start-up procedures and so on, a whole range of measures have been positive, and that this has had an impact on positive growth in the economy and very rapid economic growth. Here we have seen that it is possible to give up one part of the income through these reliefs and that it would be more fair to allow smaller investors, which will, of course, even if the amount is low, they will know each other better and will also be able to develop more quickly in these companies. This is a contribution, and we hope that this will be done as well. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be happy to support this law. Of course, we would all be willing to abolish all taxes, but we do know that this is not possible. We would also like to see that they would be bigger, but within existing options this is what they would like to be. However, it is essential that we actually maintain the competitive capacity of our economy, and in some ways also encourage some real foreign investment in our economy, thus affecting the increase in GDP and our economic growth. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support this as a contribution. I would also like to say that this bill is already in force for 2008, which is said to be immediate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-15-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u257	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended law, I conclude with a second reading of the bill. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that because of the amendments adopted on the home work body, the bill would not be harmonised. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. We continue to conclude the legislative procedure for a proposal for a law that is not the basis for consideration. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the assembly to adopt the following decision: a proposal for a law amending the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, a reduced procedure submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Miran Ptræ, is not appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 58 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 14. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Mental Health in the framework of the regular procedure. On Friday, 11 July 2008, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. I also conclude the 41st meeting of the National Assembly, which is also the last regular meeting of the National Assembly in this mandate. Goodbye.
