ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 38th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Anton Anderlich, Robert Battelli, Aurelio Juri, Dr Marko Pavlich from 6 p.m. on and Mr Aloise Sok. We're moving to nine. Period of the day - this is a second defensive proposal of a criminal law within the framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Please, Mrs. Beblereva, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good morning. Nicely greeted! Mr Vice-President, I would like to propose once again, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, that the decision be taken to postpone this item to one of the future meetings. Yesterday we proposed to withdraw from the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly, but our proposal was not adopted. Today we propose that, however, after serious, sober reflection, taking into account also the warnings of the President of the Republic and other legal professionals, including the Ombudsman, who thinks that the penal code cannot and must not be accepted in this way, as is currently the case with this proposal for a new criminal code. In order to take a decision, however, to refer to this proposal of the Penal Code as one of the future meetings, and to consider, at that time, whether the proposed amendments to the Penal Code or the proposal for a new, entirely new criminal code are justified, meaningful and such as are also proposed to be acceptable to a democratic state, a country that respects human rights and fundamental freedoms. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I call on you, and I ask you to reconsider this, and if not the other, use at least a purely healthy farm of intelligence, which speaks of such laws as to prevent such important content from being accepted and adopted in such a rapid manner. At least that's what we should think about. I propose that this item be moved to one of the future meetings of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, honourable Member, we cannot agree with your procedural proposal, because we have already discussed this at the first day of our 38th meeting of the National Assembly, when it comes to the agenda and we have voted on it. We cannot vote twice on this, so I cannot accept this proposal. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. [[The ad in the hall.]] I'm sorry, I didn't see. Mr. Run, procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! Otherwise, I think it would be possible to decide on the postponement because at the beginning of the agenda we decided whether to place the item on the agenda or not, but I agree with the president that the result would probably not be significantly different from his decision. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65, I would like to inform you that Members and Members of the Social Democrats will not participate in this item until the vote, from the explanation given by the Secretary of State. I am convinced that we have done enough and perhaps too much to allow the ruling coalition, so that the Government can understand that such a way of adopting such important legislation is not appropriate to the rule of law and to the democratic process and that nothing will happen except what is good if they decide and accept our warnings. We were counting on reason within the framework of the ruling coalition, the government and the Ministry of Justice, unfortunately we knocked on the closed door, there is no reason at this point. We are convinced that, therefore, it would be wrong not to take full responsibility for such a procedure and for the content of the Penal Code, but perhaps for some other laws that will follow the same procedure. We are confident that the adoption of the proposed content and the proposed procedure will be detrimental to its implementation in practice. Accepting such an important code of good work that I will not talk about the majority of the profession, adopting such an important code when they have doubts about its contents and solutions, including the professional services within the Government and within the framework of the National Assembly, adopting such a code when it is an important part of the contractors of this law, regardless of their public reputation, doubts that it will be possible to achieve the objectives set by this law, all of which is irresponsible. And we do not want to take part in such irresponsible action, and we want to demonstrate our discomfort, our resistance to such a way of doing the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Potč, you have said that your Group of Members will not participate in this item. Mrs Majda Shirca on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u6	On behalf of the Zares Group. The Zares Group also opposes the way in which the Government implements important substantive reform of justice. It is not systematically planned or professionally monitored. There are deep legal procedures, and not only with the criminal code, but also with others. And some will follow. For the first time in the mandate of this Government, a certain law, with its proposal, did not fully agree with the Legislative and Legal Service of the Government. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also opposes him. The way in which the criminal code is monitored and adopted is certainly inappropriate. In the majority part, the profession disagrees with it and the policy here is either following it with difficulty or changing its interests professionally. In fact, only those who wrote it agree in some way with the law. In fact, we do not want to be a witness, nor do we want to be a father-in-law of the law, which will cause problems in the future and which can make it possible to have a counterproductive effect, that is to say, even greater judicial backlogs. We committed ourselves to this way in the very functioning and treatment of the home committee, because we knew that amendments could not be affected and changed at the beginning of the wrong concept. It is, and it has been repeatedly said on our part that some of the changes brought by the criminal code are necessary. And these changes could also lead to even better solutions in further development. But you are deaf and blind and do not listen to those who are generously warning you that this way is actually rude and especially useless for Slovenia. Indeed, it does not want to push forward such work, it does not want to trigger future problems that will come with a new law, the law on criminal proceedings, and we feel that any involvement in such a process is harmful and would constitute an unseemly Spain. Therefore, in fact, we will obstruct the treatment of this procedure and leave the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I note, therefore, that the Group of Members is not really going to be involved in this. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Good morning. Good-bye. We also feel obliged to inform Members and Members of Parliament, in particular those who have voting rights, that, as you probably know, we have three amendments authorised or signed by the Lipa Group today. If the National Assembly of the said amendments does not support or continue to support the debate during the voting phase, in the final vote, we will use the same decision as the two parliamentary groups before us as well as the business possibility of obstruction in the context of the Lip Group. I think we should let you know. The fact is that more and more, every day again shows the unwillingness to talk, the unwillingness to communicate in pursuit of the goal of improving finally certain legal matter for the benefit of all of us in this country. Given that we have a very demanding law today and, on the other hand, a very extensive law, it would seem to me, or it seems right for us in the Lipa Group, to wait for the consideration of this law and to invite a little more than three lawyers to cooperate, given that several times the desire to cooperate with both professional and lay public in connection with this law has been expressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u10	Thank you very much. We will not oppose the proposal of the Penal Code on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and will be involved in the consideration of amendments and content.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I think we can move on with our work. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please, Mr Robert Marolt, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u12	Mr President, honourable Members. Today, again, you have a proposal for a new penal code. Since much has already been said about this law, I would like to highlight only a few points. Once again, I must explain that the Ministry of Justice has not taken lightly writing a proposal for a new Penal Code. The draft proposal is based on the findings and proposals of 12-year debates on various judicial and other professional consultations and on a research project on the modern direction of criminal substantive law, which was drawn up by the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana for the Ministry of Justice. The law was also far longer in inter-departmental coordination and in public debate than in the adoption of customary laws. The regulation of criminal sanctions on a proposal for a new criminal code follows, on the one hand, the value of secured goods. For this reason, it is understandable that, for the worst crimes, the sentence of life imprisonment allows. For example, for a crime of genocide, for mass murderers, sociopaths and the like. On the other hand, the proposal for a new code follows the idea of possible rehabilitation of the perpetrator. Thus, there is a greater possibility of adapting sanctions to offenders and thus a more favourable position for convicts will be given. With the amendments voted today by the National Assembly, the possibility of carrying out a prison sentence with work is being expanded to the general benefit. There will also be a prison sentence of up to 9 months. The new Criminal Code will no longer contain a provision on the minor act referred to in Article 14 of the current Penal Code. Such provisions do not have the criminal code of Western Europe. In our criminal code, she remained a successor to the Institute of Minor Social Hazards, which the new Criminal Code did not take for these reasons. Under the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act, similar reasons have already been provided for the State Prosecutor for the settlement process, the suspension of prosecution or the abandonment of prosecution or the withdrawal of prosecution. The bill of law abolishes cascading responsibility. It should be noted that in the general debate a number of comments have emerged on this arrangement in the belief that this introduces the so-called verbal delinquency. Such a belief is not right. In the case of an unknown author or other obstacles to the author's prosecution, the new criminal code will give only the possibility of the liability of the responsible editor and no longer of objective liability, as in the current criminal code. Thus, the responsible editor may be charged only with public disclosures of offences against honour and a good name under Article 166 of the Penal Code, and with unknown authors or obstacles to its prosecution, the responsible editor shall be placed in a significantly more favourable defensive position. In order to condemn him, he will have to prove guilt in the form of a pretense, he will have the opportunity to object with proof of the truth, the possibility of excluding illegality when it comes to the purpose of denial, the possibility of acquittal. All these defence options in the case of cascading liability do not have a responsible editor and others listed under the current criminal code. At today's meeting, you will also decide on amendments to the so-called terrorist crimes. The amendments were prepared in cooperation with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and follow the European Commission's latest report, based on the Framework Decision on the fight against terrorism. In addition, I must point out that it was on Friday last week that the Ministers for Justice at the Council of Ministers for Justice and Home Affairs reached an agreement on the Proposal for a Supplement to the Framework Decision. The proposal will include new crimes, public calls for terrorist crime, recruitment for terrorism and training for terrorism. Your Honor! Proposal for a new code [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Drag Koren, President, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u14	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings to the representatives of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 50th emergency meeting, the Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee considered a proposal for a criminal code. The Committee also prepared a public presentation of opinions on the proposal for a criminal code. However, the National Assembly held a general discussion on the proposal for a Code at its 37th regular meeting and concluded that the proposal for a Code was suitable for further consideration. Members of the SD Group also obstructed this code at the meeting of the Committee. In the beginning, the representative of the motioner, Minister of Justice of Dr Lovro Šturm, presented in an additional explanation some of the essential provisions of the draft code, which have been raised most frequently in the public debate so far. He pointed out that the Ministry of Justice had drawn up a proposal for a new criminal code in agreement with recognised legal experts and taking into account the findings in 12-year discussions at various judicial and other professional consultations and on the basis of a research project on the modern direction of criminal substantive law, which had been drawn up by the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana for the Ministry. On the one hand, the regulation of criminal sanctions in the draft Code follows the value of protected goods. For this reason, the worst crimes are punishable by life imprisonment. On the other hand, the proposal for a code also follows the idea of possible rehabilitation of the perpetrator. This provides for a greater possibility of adapting sanctions to perpetrators of crimes. Under certain conditions, the proposal also allows prison sentences to be suspended, but with work in favour of humanitarian organisations or for the benefit of local communities. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the amendments of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups took into account, to a large extent, the comments made by their services which were formulated for a specific part of the proposed Code. Thus, the amendments do not respond to all the comments made by their services, especially those designed for general work. At the same time, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service did not agree with the proposaler's assessment that their comments were mainly terminology, but, in the light of the new concept of the Criminal Code, they also drew attention to the internal consistency of the proposed solutions. In the debate on individual amendments, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service gave some further warnings which focused mainly on greater clarity and consistency of the proposed solutions. Some editorial corrections to the text were also proposed. The amendments of the Lipa Group were specifically presented in the debate on individual amendments. In this regard, the members of the Committee have focused on the amendments to Articles 170 to 174 of the chapter on sexual inviolability, where the Lipa Group has proposed the lifting of the prescribed penalties for these offences, in particular the minimum, since they consider them to be among the worst crimes. The representative of the proposer agreed in this regard that this was an extremely serious offence, but pointed out that the prescribed penalty must also be balanced from the point of view of other serious offences and penalties imposed on them. At the same time, he stressed that the perpetrators of these crimes would also be dealt with more appropriately in view of the new definition of a continuing crime that could only be used for property crimes and that it would no longer be possible to apply this concept in the area of crimes against sexual inviolability. The Committee has adopted a number of amendments to the SDS and NSI and the SLS, as its amendment to Article 133 and Article 234. In view of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which they are incorporated is prepared [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 37th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 21.4.2008. There's a lot of amendments. We are moving on to two amendments to Article 86. The first was proposed by a group of coalition parliamentary groups and the second by the Lipa Group of Members. Anybody want a word? To your amendment number two, article 86? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Allow me, Mr President, to merge number 1 and number 2 in the framework of the amendment to article 86, at least this has been a scratch so far. As far as the first amendment is concerned. The first amendment, tabled by the representatives of the government coalition, clearly indicates how much the Penal Code, prepared by the Government or the Ministry of Justice, has been given. Even a good week ago, when the content of this law was dealt with within the framework of the labour force, the Government and government representatives did not know that it would be meaningful to write it down in the context of Article 86, that is, where we are talking about, I will not say public works, but about the so-called work in general benefit so that those who are otherwise sentenced to imprisonment can do so for up to two years. The basic proposal has only been written down for one year. Today, after a good week, they are changing because the government has changed its mind because the government has come to realize that it might make sense to write a prison sentence of up to two years. This merely points to the inadequacy of the government, to the inconsistencies of the government and to the unprofessional approach of the preparer to this extensive law, the Penal Code, which redefines the system of punishment in our country. But basically in the Lipa Group we also support the so-called work for the general benefit or general benefit of the work, instead of the prison sentence. We also support the supplement proposed by coalition parties, where it is added that this work cannot be done by persons who have committed a crime against sexual inviolability. But allow me, my respectable colleagues, to know what they've written down in explanation to the government's representatives. In view of the rejection of offences against sexual inviolability, the possibility of execution of penalties in such acts of work is excluded for the general benefit, as such arrangements would not be likely to be effective in their view. I wonder where the expertise is, including in the context of the explanation. Apparently, they say such a punishment would not be effective. First of all, respected colleagues and colleagues, the protection of potential victims must be at the forefront. That would be an explanation. Once again, I stress that such an approach by the Government, the Ministry of Justice, which has been preparing the law and the government coalitions, shows total unreality in such an important matter or law as the Penal Code. I would like to focus further on the second amendment under Article 86, which adds paragraph 5. This is the article which provides for the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, to draw up a sub-legislative act which will define in more detail those functions or operators which may participate in the work for the general benefit. For now, the contents of Article 86 are completely incomplete and leave free hands, I don't know, to the court. I would like to point out that, and this is also the practice in other countries, including the European Union, which we are ultimately also committed to under our Constitution, the practice is that such work, which is, can be an alternative to the suspension of a prison sentence, but only for those perpetrators of crimes who commit or commit an easier crime. It is said that punishment can be carried out within the framework of generally beneficial works, in the homes of pensioners, where I see in the Slovenian space a very good opportunity and also the need to be in the framework of other public works, as part of the regulation of premises at the local level, also as a help to young people who have problems in school with social inclusion problems. But the law does not stipulate this, and I fear that if we do not define it more clearly and point out who is responsible in our country to draw up a rule of these generally beneficial works that can be done by people convicted of a crime, then we will again allow the matter to remain completely unregulated. Another option that I see in the context of the generally beneficial works for prisoners or perpetrators of crimes. I know, and I believe that the other Members and Members of Parliament also know that the issue of discarded animals in our country is great. That the shelters are not regulated, that they face both human resources problems and financial problems. Why not also include prisoners or perpetrators of crimes in this type of generally beneficial work to help in shelters or to care for their own animals. It is a very good, educational programme, which has positive results for convicts or perpetrators of crimes. Very good results come from America, Sweden, if I focus on the European Union. So please consider this option that we are offering you in the context of the Lip Group of Members. It is said that the Ministry of Justice, last but not least in cooperation with the other ministries in the field, is the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education, including the Ministry of Labour, the Family and Social Affairs, which may be part of the Ministry of Labour, so-called public works, so that the Ministry of Justice will draw up a sub-legislative act setting out in more detail the way, procedure and list of areas of work for humanitarian organisations or local communities. And, of course, also reporting and exercising control over the work of operators and providers of the said work. Last but not least, someone has to keep an eye on the execution of some criminal sanctions imposed by the Ministry of Justice. And it is also right to designate a body that is competent and will oversee the work of prisoners or the work of persons convicted of a criminal offence, which falls within the scope of Article 86.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss Article 86? Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Since we have been called upon in this article, I am returning immediately. The fact is that the way criminal sanctions are enforced does not fall under the Penal Code, but we have a special law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. We will therefore consider including this option in the amendment of the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, which is already under consideration in the National Assembly. All I have to do is explain something else. The implementation of the alternative is said to be the implementation of the work in general benefit and other alternative sanctions, which is the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, since the implementation of these alternatives is the responsibility of social work centres, of course in cooperation with the Employment Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Bostian Zagorac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! With this other amendment, we give Members and Members the opportunity to provide for alternative penalties in the event of, or depending on the crime that has been committed, but not to transfer it to the Ministry of Labour. If I try to be more specific and more plastic. Someone who caused the death of a car accident, for example, under the influence of alcohol, does not seem appropriate for a public work to be determined by planting flowers for the benefit of the local community. I don't think it would be appropriate for a man like that, but I don't know that for public benefit, I would care about cleanliness in the pathology of a particular hospital. For this alone represents an alternative to public work in proportion to the crime it has caused. And we're giving this opportunity here, so I believe you'll be happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Kovacich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I'm a little surprised at the debate that this is also a subject of criticism, as would be the subject of criticism if the amendments were not at all, if they were being prepared at the last stage of the debate. And if they're amendments, it's supposed to be proof that the marriage wasn't well prepared. If there are no amendments, however, there is criticism, czech, government and coalition do not listen to any proposals that have been made and so on. I don't know why those double criteria are. As for the second proposal under point 2, I would say the following. The content of this proposal is certainly positive, as it is right to draw up a way, procedure and list of areas where work is intended to benefit the public or the general benefit, and not, as the proponent says, for the benefit of humanitarian organisations or local communities, which is probably due to confusion or confusion, so to speak, to work for the general benefit. However, the question is whether this matter belongs to the Penal Code. Probably not, it would be a substantively inappropriate solution if this were recorded in this Penal Code, which, in general, sets out the scope, content and list of offences. This is more matter, as has already been said, of the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. This is the law governing the manner, procedure and so on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, which are recorded in another law, such as the criminal code. And, of course, within social work centres, within the Ministry and in cooperation with them, it would be appropriate to arrange this in such a way. From this point of view, it would be difficult to support such an amendment, but it is certainly welcome that, in those relevant laws or in those laws, where appropriate and also where these matters will be implemented and where they will prepare to be properly regulated there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u23	Thank you very much. One more time for discussion. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u24	Thank you very much. One more word for it. See, the amendment gives only some legal form or commitment to the Ministry of Justice to prepare more detailed instructions, in the framework of a sub-law or another act, in what way, under which conditions and who is responsible for the supervision of these works, which will be carried out for some general social benefit. This is not a purely simple system of public works as we know it in our legal order. These are generally socially beneficial works carried out by people convicted of a crime. Not just for a simple misdemeanor. They committed a crime. And these people need to be included in a new system, in an alternative system of penalties, under certain clearly defined rules. There are no rules today. There is no system today. We have a criminal code that provides for some alternative punishment or alternative punishment, but at the same time we do not have a more detailed regulation to regulate this system, a way of putting an end to the penalty. That's all it is. In the Lipa Group, we are confident that if we do not have a complete system in this area, then we will not know who is drinking and who is paying in our country. These people will be on their own. I believe you know that if the law does not clearly specify these matters, these rules, then, no matter how many times this has happened in our system, we come to the marriage hole because the law can be interpreted in its own way. But this is, in my opinion, a very sensitive area. Once again, it is the perpetrators of crimes who are legally sentenced to imprisonment for up to two years. And we leave our hands free, I don't know who. Who will care, under what conditions, and in what way will this generally beneficial work be carried out, for the benefit of both and for the benefit of the whole society in particular?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u26	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellows, Mr Minister. As is the case at all with the proposal of the Penal Code, which we have been considering for some time now, or we are taking haste, as if I did not know where to go, this also applies to some of the solutions put forward by the amendments. I will say more about the adoption of these amendments to the public than to you that at the last meeting of the Internal Policy Committee they were adopted at a super-express pace, in just 40 seconds to one amendment, including its reading, voting. It was as if it were a bid or a horse race. If we calculated that there were a few words at some of the amendments, then this number would still be reduced. But we are talking about a criminal code that represents a standard also for another law and for sub-laws that are far from ready. It's all about something that's morally controversial. To adopt so quickly and so forcefully a law that affects all citizens, and another thing that is closely linked to our everyday lives, is actually violence against citizens. And that's why we're against the same law. We are also opposed to the way it is established and the way it is standardised. At that session, I touched some other things. In addition to the fact that this criminal code establishes a standard within criminal law and then lays down other laws relating to it, it is so extensive and also so terminologically full that it also establishes a language standard. And this goes far beyond what we call "jus," but it goes into the language. There was nothing clever, no precision, no precision. The services of the Government and the National Assembly dealing with this have, of course, warned about this either directly or indirectly when they tried to resolve the matter with amendments, but at least in some cases this did not work. I still think that everything should be returned to a condition before adoption, says when the law is still being discussed, when it can also be treated with filigree, when tolerances are reduced, when things are not so loose, but, of course, so tight that things can't actually work. On behalf of the Group of the Liberal Democracy, I declare obstruction at this point and also at the time of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Gulič, I gave you my word when you applied and we discussed Article 86. It would be wise to say that you have a procedural question and accept this notice that you will no longer attend this point. Thank you. However, I would like to ask further who will discuss that it has been announced that we are discussing the amendment to Article 86, and please, I will stick to having a discussion on individual articles, not on the law, but on individual articles. Please, Mr. Zagorac, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Madam President. It is just as if you stick to talking about what we are discussing. Dear colleague Kovacic, there is only one explanation. The second point of the presentation of the law, as prepared by the Government, I will say the third indent of the 10th paragraph under the second chapter, reads as follows: "The suspension of the prison sentence in prison with work in favour of humanitarian organisations or the local community will be possible in the sentence of imprisonment for up to one year." Now you're up on two. So our amendment is only part of this law, because it seems to me that it would be appropriate to regulate the fact under the law. in any way, this sanction or alternative to the suspension of penalties will be defined. Not to speak, we could have thrown him into the Health Insurance Act, if that were the case with you, if the minister suggested it. Dear Mr Kovacič, the law or your explanation, the Government's explanations must be read in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the application. Mr. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. This article, as well as the amendments, also speaks of the need to amend the Penal Code, that there is no need to wait and that there is a type of novelty in this law, which in a modern way commits crimes in modern society. Now, specifically for this amendment. Alternative punishment is a good solution, especially when faced with increasingly difficult problems of spatial accommodation for the enforcement of criminal sanctions, because there is insufficient capacity. Moreover, we know that this kind of service can also help the perpetrator himself to be more aware of his actions, that we can more effectively interfere with the so-called rehabilitation if we can even interfere with rehabilitation. Certainly not in the most serious crimes. In serial killers, psychopaths, where this problematic core is firmly anchored, we certainly cannot interfere with such an alternative punishment, so it is also, of course, a limitation of up to two years, i.e. for one who is sentenced to up to two years in prison. As far as the second amendment is concerned. I have absolutely no doubt about the well-meaning nature of this amendment. However, if in our legal system, in this system of enforcement of criminal sanctions and the Penal Code and other acts, we are so divided that there is a specific law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, then that provision certainly falls within that law. Otherwise, there would be some misunderstandings as well as distractions. In addition, I believe that, in terms of the implementation of this alternative penalty, it is already necessary to lay down in the law matters falling within the law, because it is not the discretionary right of a single minister who could be defined in a sub-legislative act. If we went well into the sub-legislative acts in the Slovenian legal system, we would run into a number of problems where there was an overriding of powers in excess of the powers of each minister to intervene by means of a sub-law in the determination of rights and of what does not apply to him. I therefore propose that the spirit and content of this second amendment be incorporated, however, into the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. Well, not just that. Also, what remains to be determined is that it has not happened to the Minister by chance, that he himself would have determined by means of a sub-law the legal matter and the scope of the rights or something like that that does not affect him. That's why I don't support the other amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Dimitriy Kovacic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The method of acceptance of amendments is no proof of whether or not the procedure is corrected. If the amendments were accepted relatively quickly on the working body, this only means that the debate was brief everywhere where no one had discussed. Which means that everyone here understood the contents of the amendment and then decided on the basis of the vote whether any individual amendment had been adopted or not. As for this second amendment, I reiterate once again that the text of the work done for the benefit of humanitarian organisations or local communities has already been transformed into a work of general benefit. And that's why I said that this dictatorship in this amendment was wrong, because the proposaler obviously didn't know that it had already been turned into a work dictatorship into a general benefit. As far as the content is concerned, it is. If it is recorded here that the Minister issues a submarital act, on the one hand, what my forerunner has just said is unacceptable. For the Minister cannot pass what the law prescribes, although in theory he could, because he is still bound by the framework of the law, but the essence is that the penal code for no penalty prescribed by the law does not provide that the Minister, by means of a sub-law act, should deal in detail with a sub-law act, not for a prison sentence. The Penal Code lays down penalties, lays down prison sentences, lays down monetary penalties, in which case it provides for this alternative penalty. However, the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions is the one that then what you are proposing here is determined in this way. That is why this amendment is not appropriate to be adopted, because in this case it would be an exception to the concept of a criminal code which is a framework for all criminal sanctions which are prescribed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates! Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I wish to express my regret, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group, that a large part of the opposition does not participate in this debate. The only argument I've seen by the opposition is that we're in a really hurry somewhere. That's not an argument. And in some ways, writing an eminent gentleman with the highest academic title, gentlemen of the legal profession, with the title of the article Why and who is in such a hurry? is actually an insult to everyone who has participated in this extremely difficult mother. And that's it, Mr. Vice President in general. Now, on the second amendment of our colleagues from Lipa to Article 86, and my explanation why I cannot support this amendment. Some of my speakers have already said that this amendment, if any, would be more of the so-called ZIKS, the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions rather than the criminal code. Although the Penal Code provides for the most general provisions concerning the enforcement of criminal sanctions. I also wonder whether it may have been registered or engaged to colleagues from Lipa, where they are talking about working for humanitarian organisations or local communities. I understand that this dictatorship actually supports the idea enshrined in the law that criminal sanctions can also be carried out with some alternative executions, but not in favour if I am now accurately quoting the text of the law, not for the benefit of humanitarian organisations or the local community, but if you allow me to read Article 86, paragraph 4, "The penalty of imprisonment for up to one year can also be carried out in such a way that the convicted person, instead of a prison sentence, does work for at least one year in general benefit. [[So, it's work for the general benefit.]] , at least 80 or at most 240 hours." So, the real term or the right word relationship is 'work in general benefit' and not 'work in favour of humanitarian organisations'. Although the purpose is good, I absolutely agree. Nor can I support the amendment, because it is pointless for the Ministry of Justice to impose obligations on it to draw up a regulation on how this work would be regulated in general benefit, how it should be defined and how it should then be monitored. This is certainly an area, or work of general benefit is an area that belongs to another area, more specifically within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The idea of the amendment is therefore good, so it welcomes the alternative implementation of criminal sanctions, but it would not be good to put it in the Penal Code. It simply does not belong to this Article 86. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolitch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. A well-known distinguished minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I support this alternative service of punishment or this generally beneficial work, but to tell you the truth, I am not too excited about the first, not the second amendment. Why? Because these two amendments are actually making a huge commitment to each other. I expect what is written in the first amendment, if the first amendment is adopted, there will certainly be a lot of things to be done. We are now aware of certain, if I may say, mild forms of punishment especially for these minors who are doing so-called generally beneficial work. But this is really going through the social work center. The Centre for Social Work is included, and these other institutions or institutions where this work is carried out must certainly be included. And I expect something like that to happen here. You know, this applies in particular to the second amendment, because I also think that the Ministry of Justice cannot write some sub-law, some rulebook, but if there is actually a need to include those who, if I may say so, will be included under the terms "executors" of this. And I can't imagine without these that then the Minister of Justice will write a rule that will then apply to those institutions where the one who is going to pass this sentence, which was imposed on him and then an alternative solution, generally useful work so that he can do it. I must also ask myself today how ready these institutions are to accept such a person to do a generally beneficial job. And it's definitely connected. That is why I am also saying that in this area - I will, of course, support the first amendment, because I think it is a good solution, but it will certainly have to be reconciled here with certain institutions, somehow then, that it will also be a good solution in all aspects, and in particular a real solution. In order to include the convict who will do this work from this point of view, what will be necessary or what kind of work he will do. On the other hand, this institution will also take all necessary measures, educational measures or other measures. And it certainly is not a simple solution or a simple matter. Surely the solution will be or will have to be to benefit one another. However, there is certainly much more to be done in the adoption of this first amendment from the point of view of all those involved in this project, if I may say that the criminal will do this generally useful work, in order to make it possible to do so from a formal point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u38	Thank you very much. One more clean for a while. If the Ministry of Justice prescribes a system, it must complete the system in a roof law to be precise and not leave open holes. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is not responsible for the implementation of criminal sanctions. Social work centres are not competent state institutions to oversee or enforce criminal sanctions. This is the responsibility of the ministry, which has to complete a system with the ministries of the field to function if you want - in general benefit. The dictatorship we have taken and included in the amendment is a dictatorship also used by the Ministry of Justice, or three experts who have prepared the Penal Code after 12 years of discussion, as we have heard.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Because I can see. Mr. Bostian Zagorac, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u40	Only very for a second, for those who simply do not want to understand or do not want to understand, the Penal Code is a special law in the field of the regulation of penalties and also the enforcement of penalties or penalties at risk. And all laws must be subject to him. Not that we will then be subject to some law in the field of social work to this law. You understand that. The law should determine what other laws should then do. This is a lex specialis and it also needs to be definitively and strictly regulated by the enforcement or enforcement of a particular sanction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Obviously, there is no longer any interest in the debate on the amendment to Article 86. I therefore conclude the debate on this Article. We move on to the amendment to Article 108. With this amendment of the coalition groups, I would like to remind you that there was a change of amendment yesterday. However, only the word in the third indent is changed below, in the third paragraph, where the word 'forced another' is replaced by 'forced to prepare another'. This is an amendment to Article 108. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Janez Petty Officer. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u42	This and similar articles raised the issue of a repressive country. In fact, three to fifteen years in prison are at risk for these crimes. Are we really a repressive country or something else? I think this amendment is appropriate. At the same time, an article introducing such a method of punishment in cases of the worst intimidation. We must by no means fall at the risk of some kind of perverted tolerance, that everything is permissible, that we must first and foremost look at the welfare of the one who executes the punishment, that we must devote ourselves to it. But very little is devoted to those who suffer harm. In this case, it is a threat to a large number of people. Even though it is just fear, it often leads to serious action. Some circles impose the principle of this tolerance, which they believe will do everything with educational methods, prevention, schooling. However, this is like treating camels with the worst bacterial diseases that can threaten death. In short, the appropriate scope of the penalty must be for such a crime. I also think that the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia fully agree with such proposals for solutions, so that there will be more order in this Slovenia and that there will not be an increasing threat to people.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I'm concluding. Excuse me, Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u44	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues! Article 108 is an amendment that I see and compare with the basic article, in fact this amendment is of a nomotechnic nature. However, I would like to reiterate that we are aware of the title of Article 108 of the proposed Penal Code, which calls "terrorism". Those Slovenians and Slovenians who are not aware of Article 1(1) of the first paragraph, where they say: "Who, with a view to destroying or jeopardising the constitutional, economic, social or political foundations of the Republic of Slovenia", who does not read this, is not Slovenian for the Slovenian National Party. We are and will support such and similar content that preserve, preserve and care Slovenia, Slovenia and the rights of this country. And I don't understand how different people in this room can actually start a political game and talk and talk about nomotechnics. While about the right content, about the protection of the rights of Slovenes and Slovenes, about the protection of our common integrity, about our right to live in a democratic, beautiful Slovenia no one wants to talk about. The Penal Code, including 15 years for such an act, is too small - according to my personal opinion as a member of the Slovenian National Party. Not enough. And on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, please colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I'm sorry about those who go because they don't care about the content. They're interested in political form. Read the contents! At least once! Let us preserve our integrity, preserve our lives and preserve the right to be a Slovenian and live in a beautiful country such as Slovenia. At least that. If there are nomotechnical errors, if there are language errors, it's okay. But you know, the penalty for violating fundamental human rights must be. It is right that it will be as envisaged by the proposal of this Penal Code. Sometimes it could be worse. In the Slovenian National Party, we will of course support this amendment and some others that protect integrity, democracy, honour and the right to be Slovenian and live in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on this amendment. We move on to the amendment to Article 109. A coalition member's proposal, please! I find that there is no debate on this amendment. I therefore conclude the debate and move on to the amendment to Article 110. They also amend the coalition groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am moving on to the amendment to the 111st article of the coalition groups. There's no debate. I conclude the debate on Article 111. We are moving on to the amendment to the 143rd article of the coalition parliamentary groups. Mr. Janez Petty Officer. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u46	The debates have repeatedly heard why we are in a hurry to adopt this law. Article 143 just proves that it is necessary to come into the Penal Code with new content that is required by economic, technological and, in particular, Internet, computer and other developments. These are new forms of crime, new forms of crime that need to be suppressed. This article also shows that the Penal Code must be continuously updated and updated. Some may think that the nature of the changes to the Penal Code is primarily about how high the penalties are. But I think it's important to be aware of all the new forms of crime. In relation to these new forms, it is also necessary to amend the other legislation relating to this area. So, criminally, also, the enforcement of criminal sanctions. New forms of crime that have been granted domestic rights in our country, which we know are not successfully prosecuted for the end of the Penal Code. Of course, not only because of this but also because of a variety of others: the judicial system, the prosecution system, the police, and more. Modern crime must be tackled with modern methods and modern approaches. That is why this proposal of article and amendment is entirely in place. This article just proves that it was necessary to go with the amendment of the Penal Code, that we did not wait too long and that we did not need to wait any longer, but that these changes should already be implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolitch, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u48	Dear Root, not Martin Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u49	Excuse me, Mr. Drago Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u50	It's okay. We get mixed up very often. As regards Article 143, which deals with abuse and sanctions on personal data, I consider it to be a very, very important article and also an amendment to this Article. During this year, we have encountered, in many legislations, mainly the problems and obvious opposition that the security of personal data may be compromised so that personal data may be misused. Finally, there was a lot of talk about this also in the new ID card when the identity card and the digital certificate could be combined. I must say that personally this protection of personal data, so that we can do nothing new, because this protection of personal data is at risk, is very disturbing to me. However, I think it is right that all of us in Slovenia are aware that personal data must be protected and that the abuse of these personal data is a crime. And I welcome that the new Penal Code pays great attention to this and that then those who may speculate by using personal data will be aware that this is a crime for which penalties are also prescribed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 143. We are moving on to an amendment to the 168th article of the coalition parliamentary groups. This amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 224. Mr. Janez Petty Officer, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u52	Apparently there's no article or amendment to challenge anything. However, given the complexity of our legislation, and in particular the lack of clarity as to what this is, how to determine this circle as well as the registered same-sex partnerships, this article will have some difficulties in implementing it. I believe, of course, that the drafter of the law has taken these Slovenian data into account. However, the content and individual entities defined by this Article are poorly defined in other legislation. That's gonna be a problem. However, this is not the problem with this Penal Code, other legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the amendment to the 171st member of the Lipa Group. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u54	Thank you very much! Under the second amendment. This is an amendment to Article 108, paragraph 2, we have listened to how proud some are to live in the Republic of Slovenia. Undoubtedly, I am also very proud to live in a free, independent Republic of Slovenia. But in the context of Article 108, we were able to increase the penalties for perpetrators of crimes from that area. When we talk about sexual violence, inviolability, the right of individuals to sexual inviolability, unfortunately, the government coalition has closed the articles in the vast majority and has prevented amendments from being tabled in the second session of the National Assembly. Article 171 of the article on sexual violence remained open. In the Lipa Group we propose to raise penalties in order to protect the sexual inviolability of persons. Those persons who live in our country, who are also citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and who would believe them - believe them - by resorting in some corrective and, above all, dignified manner to the punishment of the perpetrators, such crimes against sexual inviolability, in order to enable them or give us a signal as to the worth of the life of every individual in our country. What Is Man’s Dignity Worth? Persons who are victims of sexual violence suffer long-term irreparable consequences, health, psychological, economic. There's something else I can list. I believe that you will refer, yes, that some of the proposals and warnings of the Lip Group have only been taken into account in the context of sexual assault or protection. Protect those victims, or those cases where the victims are children under the age of 15. You did something. Thank you for this hearing, which you also expressed on your mother's working body. But I'm still warning you, the victims of sexual violence are not just children. That the victims are also those who are physically and mentally affected who cannot help themselves. And they're victims. That the victims are also adults. Even old people can't help themselves. But you let those areas go. In the Lipa Group, we still appeal to the distinguished minister to listen. And we still have a chance to at least partially fix what you didn't want to fix on your mother's working body. So, Article 171 is open. In the Lipa Group we propose to increase the penalty. Finally, the entire Penal Code has decided or the drafter has decided to follow a more restrictive practice when talking about sanctioning offenders. If we have been able, as has already been said, under Article 108, why can we not protect human inviolability, sexual inviolability? In this case, we are also talking about mental inviolability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate on Article 171. We are moving on to two amendments to Article 173. The first amendment of the Lip Group of Ambassadors is the second amendment of the coalition groups. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u56	Since I no longer have much time, I mentioned paragraph 173 more or less earlier. This is the article that discusses the sexual inviolability of children or in cases where children are victims of sexual violence. We have proposed an amendment to the Lip Group of Members. It's an amendment. It was also proposed in the framework of a parent's working body or committee discussion. At that time, it was the promise of the Minister and the drafters of the law that the Government would listen and approach more appropriate penal legislation in this area. It is true, however, that the government or the government coalition, which summarized the Ministry's proposal, has approached lowering the lower limit. But we still insist on this in the Lipa Group that it is necessary to protect children in a very specific way. Children when children are victims of sexual violence. With this, believe me, it's also a very strong psychological effect. I believe that those who commit sexual violence against a child, a person under 15 years of age, do not commit this act after an accident. But this is a planned crime that must be properly sanctioned. With appropriate criminal policy, we give as a society a clear signal of what is permissible in our country and what is not allowed or permitted under any circumstances. As has already been said, we have proposed or tabled an amendment in the Lip Group of Members. We're proposing a higher sentence. The suspension not only of the lower limits of the penalties at risk, but also of the upper limit. Finally, this is in line with the proposed amendments tabled in the parliamentary group or in the government coalition to the other open articles.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on Article 173. We are moving on to Article 186 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Mr. Janez Petty Officer, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u58	With regard to the definitions of unjustified production, processing, sales and so on, the relationship in our society is twofold. On the one hand, the promotion of free decision-making for this, the use of drugs and other substances is particularly widespread among young people. On the other hand, the Penal Code has quite a rigorous provision for such acts. Indeed, Slovenian society and a lot of society will have to take this seriously, in fact, what it encourages, what it prevents and what it makes clear. In the use of drugs, a tolerance is established that everything is allowed, everything is possible, it is a matter of personal choice. On the other hand, in the Penal Code, what is prohibited. And the question is also the dissemination of these substances. These substances are also distributed through national authorities. Excuse me, what is methadone in the practice of Slovenian health care or treatment of addiction? It's nothing more than a state's incentivization of addiction. The extent to which drugs are used to treat drug-dependent people effectively. These are high-end programs, some others. For this, approximately a million and a half Euros are allocated. However, more than €5 million is allocated to the methadone funds provided by the state to addicts. The practice carried out in other segments is just the opposite, as is the intention of this law. I fully agree with the intent of this law. These provisions also make it more serious to take the path of crime as far as drugs are concerned. But if the state institutions, the rest of them and the rest of the law systems don't work in line, we'll have more and more addictions, more drugs. Some say that the countryside is not adopted, that there is no drug in rural schools. Just like that or even more. This tolerance on the one hand has, of course, enabled the path of crime to be consumed everywhere. I support this amendment myself, and I also support this provision of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on this Article. We are moving on to Article 187 and the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 211 and the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. Doesn't anyone want to discuss it? I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 224 and the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. There's no debate. I'm closing the debate. I move on to Article 231 and to the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. There's no debate. I conclude the debate on this amendment to this Article. We are moving on to Article 238 and the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. Mr. Janez Petty Officer, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u60	Thank you very much. A very important article, a very important amendment to be adopted, particularly for the situation of a Slovenian company dealing with the first steps in securities trading. Of course, this does not just apply to us. The worst forms of crime, abuse and destruction of the economy and economy are taking place in this area. These are modern tools of crime. And this article also demonstrates how it was necessary to accede to the amendment of the Penal Code. I think we were, as far as this is concerned, too late. At the same time, when we have introduced the securities market and introduced shares and the capital market, we should also approach modern forms of prosecution of such crime. There was something about the existing Penal Code. However, measures are now needed to deal more effectively with such crime. But it won't be enough just the Penal Code. Definitely. Here is the question of experts, relevant services, whether they are qualified to intervene in this area. Finally, the stock drop, trading under the table, over the table, in one way or another became a general rule in Slovenian society. Of course, that doesn't lead anywhere. In short, other institutions will also have to prepare for effective prosecution of crime. It won't be enough just the Penal Code and this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to paragraph 240 and to the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. There are no debaters, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to Article 246 as well as the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. There is no debate, so I conclude it. We are moving on to Article 280 and the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 281 and the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups. I'm closing the debate. We move on to Article 282, the amendment of the coalition groups. There's no debate. Then the amendment to Article 314 is also an amendment to the coalition groups. There are no debaters. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the meeting's timing today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 18th item of the agenda or no later than 20.50. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ADVICE LEGISLATION LAW, THE SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please, Minister Dr. Lovro Sturm!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members of the National Assembly! What are the essential changes and additions to the proposed law? Let me put it this way. The disciplinary procedure is new. Members of the First and Second Level Disciplinary Commissions shall be lawyers and other university-graduated lawyers with at least three years of practical experience following a legal examination. Here they are, the Bar, and they're appointed by the Council of Justice. In disciplinary commissions, first and second degree lawyers have a majority of the members. The Disciplinary Court, however, consists of three Supreme Judges and two Lawyers. Disciplinary measures are a written reminder, a fine of between EUR 500 and EUR 20 000, the deprivation of the right to pursue a legal profession or to work in a law firm. That is, within a period of one to five years and the withdrawal of the right to practice in a lawyer's office for a period of one to three years. More precisely, the deadlines and the course of the disciplinary procedure are set. The proposal of the New Law on Lawyers provides that the legal rate is to be fixed by law. Otherwise, the law will set out the lawyers' awards. However, as before, a different arrangement between a lawyer and a client will be possible. And there's no change in that. The possibility of setting up a limited-liability law firm and branches is introduced, both for lawyers and for law firms. Occupational liability insurance shall be determined. The smallest insurance sum for a lawyer is EUR 250,000, i.e. a quarter of a million euros. A million euros for the legal society. Lawyers' advertising is regulated in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, which provided guidance for further regulation of the advertising of legal services. Lawyers may decide themselves to include in the list of lawyers for the representation of the client on an official basis or in the case of the provision of free legal assistance services. Volunteer traineeship's off-limits. A lawyer will only be able to conduct a lawyer's internship in a regular working relationship with full-time work as well as a lawyer's candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Drag Koren, President, to present the report of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! At its 43rd meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Lawyers. At the outset, Minister Lovro Šturm gave an additional explanation to the bill, stating that the draft law systematically regulates the entire disciplinary procedure, as the shortcomings of its regulation stem from the Ombudsman's report, the recommendations of the National Assembly and many comments from parties received by the Ministry of Justice. The draft law also provides that the legal rate should be fixed by law to ensure that all citizens have equal opportunities for legal protection. The proposal also introduces the possibility of setting up a limited liability legal society and a branch for a lawyer or a legal society and provides for insurance for professional responsibility. Advertisers are regulated in accordance with the provision of the Constitutional Court, which was the guide for further regulation of the advertising of legal services. Following this additional explanation by the Minister, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the introductory remarks made in the written opinion and stated that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 137 of the Constitution, counsel is a self-sustaining and independent service, which is also linked to the way in which legal prices are determined. However, Article 7 of the Law regulates the way in which legal tariffs are fixed by law, which, according to the Legal and Legal Service, could be inconsistent with the Constitution. With regard to the amendments tabled, she said that their extensive written comments had been taken into account, with the exception of the comment to Article 33 concerning the composition of the First and Second Disciplinary Commissions. Members of the opposition committee unanimously stressed in the debate that they would not support the proposal. For the following reasons, because, in its preparation and also in the debate on the Committee, the Bar and the Council of Justice have been completely excluded, the members of the new Disciplinary Commissions have been appointed, because the bill does not take into account the constitutional and legal concerns about the proposed solutions by the Legal and Legal Service, because the changes in the disciplinary procedure are not justified and because the proposed composition of disciplinary commissions does not take into account the independence and independence of the Bar. On the other hand, the members of the committee in the type of position supported the bill's proposal because they want to improve matters in the field of defence for the benefit of all those who need them and do not endanger the independence and independence of lawyers, because it brings about a disciplinary procedure and, in cases, mentions disciplinary infringements because it is for the benefit of honest lawyers who wish to complete the proceedings quickly and thus enable the representation of a larger number of parties. In the course of the discussion, the Minister explained that the proposed Article 7 would enter into force only on the date of 1.1.2009, because of the announced constitutional assessment of this Article by the Management of the Chamber of Juridical Slovenia. He is convinced that that article will pass a constitutional assessment. Otherwise, the Constitutional Court will retain its implementation in due time until the decision is issued. Disciplinary proceedings are reordered as a result of recommendations of the 2002 National Assembly and multi-year warnings of the Ombudsman, as well as numerous comments from the parties received by the Ministry. The disciplinary procedure of the Bar ensures all autonomy. As the last body, however, the Disciplinary Court is now ruling, in which there are members of the types of lawyers who do not have a majority. Amendments to the bill were tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups which were adopted. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Mogue, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we estimate that procedural violations have been committed during the examination of the Law on Lawyery in the National Assembly. The content of the law is also controversial for us. As far as procedural infringements are concerned, first of all let me mention that Ambassador Majda Shirca's colleague three days before the government passed the perfect law, which the President of the National Assembly, noting that the law is incomplete and that there is a need for supplementation, excluded from the procedure and gave priority to government law. This is certainly not a gesture that points to tolerance in the work of the National Assembly and is also questionable. Another time. There is no doubt that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is that the proposed law is contrary to the Constitution, as the Bar Association has also argued as an expert and interested body in the adoption of the law. Third time. The adoption of the law by swift procedure also, assuming that there are no public financial consequences, points to the inadequacy of the Ministry of Justice and to a certain extent to the undervaluation of Members. Fourth time. The law is the basis of the Law on the Bar tariff, which we have already dealt with in the first reading and have decided that it is appropriate to adopt this law, which we are considering today, which suggests a certain degree of blackmail by the Ministry of Justice. And fifthly, this law was not in line with the professional and interested public. However, the law has the following shortcomings. It opens the door largely to the Council of State to set a legal tariff, which is contrary to the Constitution and causes opposition to the Chamber of Lawyers. Secondly, in it the disciplinary responsibility of lawyers is disproportionate to the disciplinary responsibility of judges, as the statutes of limitations for lawyers are twice as long as the statutes of judges. The composition of the commission is also controversial. For this reason, we believe that the State's involvement in the legal tariff and disciplinary procedures is a clear sign that the State also supports the field of legal representation in the Republic of Slovenia. The consequences of the adoption of the law will be that the Bar would be unnecessary and that lawyers would be able to start with citizens and citizens, as they would like to do with the payment of their services. In this way, by adopting this law, the Chamber of Lawyers is reduced to a court of law alone. For all the reasons mentioned in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, honourable Vice-President, we announce the obstruction of this point in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and leave.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Mogue. The LDS delegation announced obstruction at this point. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Again, we have before us one proposal from the Ministry of Justice, whose fundamental concern is despite all professional objections, despite warnings by those whose situation is regulated and by those who are obliged in this National Assembly to draw attention to the constitutional legal dispute of the proposed solutions and planned legislation, that is, its fundamental intention is to discipline the defence and to fully subject it to legislative and even more executive powers in the country. There is no point in talking about the reduced procedure for the adoption of this law. Our objections are at the expense of the fact that such comprehensive, profound and far-reaching consequences of the amendment of the law must not be adopted under a procedure which is intended only for minor and less important changes to the laws. However, before us is the proposed amendment, which is controversial in terms of constitutionality, since it does not follow the provision of Article 137 of the Constitution, which provides that the defence as part of the judiciary is an independent and independent service. The amendment does not follow the 1998 Constitutional Court's decision, which advocates that the independence and independence of the lawyer are also linked to the way in which the legal tariff is fixed. And so far it has been in force, and this has been a standard that has been self-evident for decades, that, with the consent of the Minister of Justice, the Bar Council has provided for the legal tariff. And it was with the consent of the Minister that the public interest was guaranteed, which must be exercised in relation to such important service within the judiciary. The Minister's consent also ensured the necessary balance between the independence and independence of the lawyer, who cannot be absolute and totally unlimited, and between the public interest, which follows the appropriateness of the price of legal services and the availability of legal aid or legal representation for a party who urgently needs such a service. In view of the fact that lawyers are also a free profession and that they are finally also a profitable activity, the constitutional provision that an economic initiative is free should also be respected. It is important to take into account the fact that this free economic initiative must also not be carried out in conflict with public benefit. I hope that what we want to say in the Group of Social Democrats is understandable and reasonable. Without an adequate response to the warnings of a constitutional nature and certainly without coordination with the Chamber of Counsel, it is not possible to adopt a proposal from the Ministry of Justice in order to determine the legal rate by the legislative authority in accordance with the law. It is already possible for some EU Member States to have a similar system. However, in these countries, whether they do not have a lawyer as defined in the Constitution as we do or, for example, they have a different role in the procedural legislation, or whether the participation of a lawyer is compulsory in all judicial authorities and with the use of all legal remedies. Otherwise, we are constantly witnessing the fact that at the Ministry of Justice they prefer to copy from German or at least Austrian legislation. However, there are some major differences. If I say one thing. Both of these countries are federal states. That's not Slovenia, for example. In the parliamentary group, we also oppose applying these amendments to different disciplinary procedures or to a different composition of disciplinary commissions and disciplinary courts. It is not acceptable that these changes, without experimenting with the Chamber of Counsel, the Minister of State forces himself and even refers to a report by the former Ombudsman, whose other and very serious and concrete warnings the current authorities have not taken into account at all. Of course, it's logical for lawyers to have disciplinary violations as well. There is no profession where violations, omissions or negligence would not occur. However, at least what it is should be listened to and heard the arguments of the Bar Association. Of course, it is not a coincidence that in this law too, the Minister of Justice has given himself an additional role in disciplinary proceedings. In the proposed amendment, however, there is quite a number of acceptable and beneficial proposals. However, the proposed novelties are unacceptable for the Group of Social Democrats due to the previously mentioned weaknesses. I wouldn't even mention the story of how my proposal for the Law on Lawyers was played, because it's probably one special story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren has the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u70	Say good-bye to everyone again! In Novi Slovenija we will support the amendment of the Law on Lawyering, as it brings a number of changes, additions and innovations. First of all, it is necessary to mention the disciplinary procedure which is re-ordered and accurately sets out the composition of disciplinary bodies, the course of disciplinary proceedings, disciplinary infringements and disciplinary sanctions. In the disciplinary commissions of the first and second stages, lawyers still have most of their members. That's why we don't think the independence of a lawyer is impaired. Only in a disciplinary court do lawyers have a majority, which is also correct, because this disciplinary authority decides on complaints of serious disciplinary violations and of a disciplinary measure imposed, a prohibition on the exercise of a legal profession, work or practice. It is therefore appropriate that the members of the Disciplinary Court are three Supreme Judges and two Lawyers. In the new law, the disciplinary procedure is more precisely defined, as the current regulation has been alerted by the Ombudsman in its annual reports for a number of years to the shortcomings. The Ombudsman will have the opportunity, as proposed by law, to propose a disciplinary procedure in accordance with his or her powers. This means only with the consent of the one whose human rights and fundamental freedoms are protected in relation to state authorities, local authorities and public authorities. The recommendations of the National Assembly also give rise to aspirations for a more effective regulation of the disciplinary procedure and the functioning of disciplinary bodies. An important innovation in the proposed law is also the possibility of setting up a limited-liability legal society and a branch that a lawyer or a lawyer may have. This is certainly a major contribution to the expansion of the free economic initiative and to the greater competitiveness of Slovenian lawyers. The provisions relating to the insurance of legal activity are also important, which makes it more likely for the parties to recover any compensation claims. In New Slovenia, we also agree with the proposal to set the legal rate by law. We believe that this does not violate the freedom and independence of the lawyer, as only the minimum awards for lawyers will be established by law, and the lawyer and the client will always be able to agree on a different amount of awards for the service provided. The establishment of one award for all applications, one award for all applications and special awards for the agreement will certainly make a positive contribution to the speedy conclusion of judicial proceedings, and thus to the reduction of judicial backlogs. Such a system of awards has proved to be very good in Germany. Some other Member States of the European Union also have legal tariffs partially or fully regulated by the legislative or executive branch. In early April, the Slovenian Bar Association called on its regular annual assembly to withdraw the package of new law. If this withdrawal is not taken into account, the Assembly of the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia has decided to initiate preparations for some form of protest, including the possibility of a strike. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that such an approach is extremely inappropriate and irresponsible especially to customers who use and pay for legal services. The proposed law does not refer to the subordination of a lawyer and the seizure of autonomy, as lawyers claim. But in particular the instrumentalisation of certain conclusions, which has been pointed out by several institutions. We will support the proposed law in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that certain shortcomings of the Law on Lawyering need to be addressed or re-organized. In our opinion, the bill is not directed against lawyers, as is often heard in the public. But he was prepared to improve legal certainty itself, improve the effectiveness of the lawyer and, consequently, legal proceedings. The Ombudsman also warned about the shortcomings in his reports. In the field of disciplinary proceedings, it has been repeatedly pointed out that an effective way of appeal must be provided to a person exercising a duty in the exercise of a legal profession. The very effectiveness of the work of disciplinary bodies in deciding on the disciplinary responsibility of lawyers, lawyers and trainees should be improved. The National Assembly has already adopted recommendations from the Bar Chamber to tighten the supervision of the work of lawyers and to verify the effectiveness of the authorities of the Chamber, in particular the First Level Commission. We believe that the Ministry of Justice also receives a number of comments on the work of lawyers. And we agree that the whole disciplinary process will be regulated more precisely and effectively in order to change the composition of the disciplinary commissions, the applicants for the introduction of the disciplinary procedure and the complainants of complaints. The proposal for a new law also regulates the setting of a legal tariff in order to ensure that all citizens in need of legal assistance have equal opportunities for legal protection. In the SLS Group, it seems important for those with low incomes to receive quality legal assistance. The proposal provides that the legal rate shall be fixed by law which governs only the minimum awards to the lawyer, while the client and the lawyer may always agree on a different payment taking into account the complexity of the case and other circumstances. The reasons for the legal regulation of the legal tariffs are also in protecting the benefits and interests of the parties. Which is particularly important in civil disputes, where a party who has lost justice to the counterparty has to reimburse the legal costs. I've already mentioned people with lower incomes. It is correct that the legal regime of the legal tariff also covers the representation of the parties on an official basis and in cases of free legal aid. In these cases, the costs for the award of lawyers are paid from the state budget. We believe that the welcome news is also that the lawyer can decide for himself whether he will be included in the list of lawyers representing the parties on official duty. However, it is clear that in such cases it must not refuse representation. Except for exclusion, rejection or other justified reasons. The proposed amendment further aligns the Law on Lawyers with the requirements of the Directive of the European Union for the field of defence and also with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which provided that the second paragraph of Article 21 is inconsistent with Article 74 of the Constitution, which provides, inter alia, that an economic initiative is free. It is therefore a matter of regulating the area of advertising of legal services. In the SLS Group, we agree with the provision that the lawyer is entitled to inform the public of his activities, provided that the information is real, conscientious and non-binding, protects the commitment to confidentiality and complies with ethical requirements. A free economic initiative is also linked to a novelty that allows lawyers to carry out legal activities. Also in the form of a limited liability law firm. In the SLS Group, we share the view that such a form of regulation of the exercise of legal activity will help to increase the international competitiveness of Slovenian lawyers, as it is also allowed in other Member States of the European Union to establish a limited-liability legal society. In the SLS Group, we will support the proposal for a law because we believe that the current system of legal counsel is being built up in substance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Gantar has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with colleagues, co-workers! We will not support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers. This law, as well as some others in other areas - for example - on architectural activities, engineering, etc. In this case, this law essentially supports, in its core, the legal profession as a free activity and subordinates it to the system of control of the executive branch. This year's Bar Hall celebrates its 140th anniversary of freedom of existence and operation. She's been through a whole period of socialism. Today, however, some of its fundamental competences, which concern self-organisation and even lawyering, end and limit the very political option, which is sometimes so readily boasting about the merit of democratic change. It is necessary, colleagues and colleagues, to know some fundamental things. Our social and political arrangements are based on the so-called liberal-democratic social system. Simply put, it is said that it is based on a liberal notion of freedom, which can be limited only by the freedom of another and the democratic constitution of power. So, in the free elections. As is typical of this government, this law has always attacked the liberal concept of freedom, as it is clear that restricting the freedom of an individual is only possible through the institution of the rule of law, the courts as a third part of the authority and the assumption of a lawyer as independent and independent services and activities. If an individual does not have a defence that is independent of the executive branch, one of the foundations of this freedom has fallen, one of the fundamental constitutional provisions has fallen. We have before us an insecure, frightened lawyer who must compete between the interests of the party, the court and, of course, his own interests, which can be affected by him independently and set up by the state court and so on. This law interferes with the independence of legal activity in two ways; that the law lays down legal tariffs and removes the current balance under which the tariffs are fixed by the Bar in agreement with the Minister. The fact that some countries have such arrangements does not mean anything for Slovenia's legal order. For whatever else is possible, countries have a different arrangement in this regard, which, of course, as they have elsewhere, can place in the right light out of an acceptable and dignified and legally correct light. So that doesn't even apply. The second point is that such a provision, according to lawyers themselves, can produce what we call unwillingness, the consequences of actually increasing tariffs. Since, of course, this tariff arrangement will, of course, also be passed on to an agreement between the lawyer and the client. After all, it must be borne in mind that those who wish to have more successful, more successful lawyers will, of course, have to pay even higher tariffs than they are today. And, of course, he's redefining disciplinary procedures and organs. And here, too, it takes away an important role for the legal organisation. The most problematic is, of course, that the Minister refers to the recommendation of the Ombudsman, even the National Assembly, and is therefore taking a more selective view from the context of certain findings concerning the activities of lawyers and lawyers. This law clearly violates the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and along with other measures - I must say, colleagues and colleagues, I am very reluctant to watch in the last days on television with the help of certain media defaming judges. I don't know if they're right or wrong about the wages up or down. But how they are bewildered, how they are measured, how they are attacked, how they are now being dealt with with by lawyers, how this trust in this legal system is actually being eroded and it is making its way to illegal power. Once the courts have fallen, once there will be real complete mistrust in this area, when the judge does not apply anything and the lawyer is even less, then it is also yours, not only ours, but now ours, fate in this legal sense is no longer secure and assured. I think we need to resist this kind of behavior. I think we need to stay on the last ones. There's a lot of things in this marriage that can be fixed. And it's the right thing to do. However, these fundamental provisions, which attack the core of constitutional regulation, should certainly be abandoned and not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good-bye, everybody! Let me begin by saying that it has already been mentioned today that it is a number of innovations, additions, corrections, upgrades, and that it is not enough for the DeSUS Group that it has unanimously attached to everything that has been proposed. We ourselves have a number of concerns and there is no way to provide unanimous support for the bill we are considering. This does not mean that we would assess that this area is regulated in such a way that a number of concerns, comments and amendments are not justified. However, these changes, as proposed, are relatively numerous and go beyond what is absolutely necessary, and they are even deeper than it would have been acceptable for all of us. Many of the warnings we have listened to justify the Government's proposal to supplement and amend the Law on Lawyers. However, we expected that there would be more hearing for those who have concerns about this, not least that there would be more hearing about the concerns about the pace of change, i.e. by the procedure proposed and currently under way. These concerns regarding the procedure are certainly justified, since there are no very minor changes and it is not that the differences between the profession or the lawyer concerned and the applicants are so small that they should be overlooked. There was a warning, I think, of those who had been questioned, including those who had been submitted by the Legal and Legal Service. And it is not right for us to ignore what she says when her eyewitnesses do not benefit us. And in the DeSUS Group, we also believe that the perceptions or opinions that are not the most favoured were weighty, that they are worth considering and even some that are at least considered. That it is an act of independence, no one will doubt, but it is a question of who hopes to say it honestly. Such a way that completely bypasses the Chamber, which has until now played an important role in setting tariffs, for example, is certainly not proportionate and cannot be supported by us. The disproportionateity is also likely to be observed in the part where the proposer says that he defends public interest because public interest defends itself in another way and is defended by the provision of free legal aid and by any other measure or instrument. It may also be appropriate to attract those who say that this pyramid of disciplinary commissions and disciplinary courts is not the most appropriate, that its composition is not the most appropriate, but that too has been more or less overheared. Some, however, believe that the possibility or the conditions for entering a lawyer’s office are so relaxed that this will cause pressure on the legal services, which may mean greater competition, may mean closer to the parties, but that is not necessarily necessary. It can also mean a decrease in quality. These and such concerns are those that prevent us from unanimously supporting the proposal of the law in the DeSUS Group, of course, a series of provisions that we support without any doubt, either to comply with a decision of the Constitutional Court or something else that benefits from working in this area, but unfortunately we cannot support it. And since we assume that there are weaknesses that have been pointed out quite a bit, we will be held back. I certainly will not support or oppose this law. To conclude, let me just ask myself about illogicality, which is about how we are trying to lower tariffs, and at the same time there will be no consequences, not for the state budget, nor for any other public funds, as pointed out by a whole number of people who have tried to think logically about this proposal. So our support cannot be fully expected.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u78	Good afternoon. Thank you for your word. I think that those lawyers who work in accordance with the law and the principle of justice have nothing to fear. It is true, or it is interesting, that various lawbreakers from the judiciary and the prosecution are fleeing or fleeing to law enforcement. Why? There must be a reason. And to avoid these reasons, this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers is adopted. We will support this law in the Slovenian National Party. We feel that it is right that we cannot agree to the definition of uncertain and terrified lawyers, for the fact is that a housing organization called the Bar Association always advocates lawyers, even when - directly stated - they cheat on their clients and always decide for the benefit of lawyers. A lot of people have turned to our parliamentary group with extensive documentation of how certain lawyers collect money, but they don't give any credit for it. Of course, the bar didn't react to this stuff, which casts a strange shadow on everything. I'm not saying that all lawyers do that, but some do, and some of them aren't that small. Therefore, once again, those who work in accordance with the law and the principle of righteousness have nothing to fear. Just like there's nothing to be afraid of right now. I think the things envisaged in the new law are very good. In particular, if we look at the provision of free movement or free management of services for all EU citizens in Slovenia, which means that our courts will also have to judge a little more by the letter of the law and a little less by their personal preferences, if any good lawyer comes from abroad, because I think that, if any independent lawyers come from abroad, it will happen a lot or it will happen much different from what is happening in the courts now, when it comes, on a number of occasions, after a variety of strange, strange curves, trails and judgments are completely distorted by law, and ultimately it is the person who is affected and there is no way to complain, because, as we know, the judicial branch of power over all, has absolute privileges, has absolute inviolability and also the so-called life term. In short, once they sit on their chair, the Devil can no longer get them off their throne. Of course, the Slovenian National Party introduces or has tabled an amendment to Article 12, paragraph 5, so that Article 25, paragraph 5, is amended to the extent that the requirement for a legal examination is deleted. We think there's a big enough requirement without it, because in itself education and work in this position allows or, in short, I'd say it's on its own. [[...]] What's up, Mr. Gantar, huh?? What's bothering you, Mr. Gantar? [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Well, then please listen, and then you'll tell me if you have anything to say. [[...]] But if you have a stake and a glass of Lucky, please bring a glass of water to Mr. Gantar. [[...]] He's sick of something, no. In short, don't you have a stake, Mr. Gantar? [[...]] Maybe after the old days? Maybe. You don't care. Well, Lucky Boy, bring a glass anyway. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u79	Mr. Jelinčič, please continue your exposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u80	I will, Mr. Chairman. In short, in our amendment, we would like to delete in Article 12 the delivery of "after a legal examination". Once again, we'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u81	Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor, on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! I am not interested in the waitressing skills of individual Members. I just want to tell everyone the following, we're talking about the Law on Lawyers, not the Law on Judges and a Permanent Mandate, and everything else falls under another law, for those ignorant. But if they didn't have something to say, they'd save us time. As far as the Law on Lawyery is concerned, I will say, all those who support or support this law do not seem to be focused on the meaning for which the Ministry should also be made in terms of acquiring or doing good for people. Why can I talk like that? The Law on Lawyers and Free Legal Aid, the connection between these laws, but I'll come back to that a little later. The Ministry of Justice has come when we look at the agenda of this meeting of the National Assembly, with a bunch of laws that could be discussed a little bit later or a little earlier, I apologize, not now that we are already in the electoral year or the end of the mandate of individual ministers. The Law of Lawyers seems to me to have missed the order of this law. It would probably be right or right to deal with this law and then the Law on legal tariffs. Nevertheless, each ministry is set up to work in the public interest and to work for the benefit of the people it represents. The law before us today does not support the Bar. Lawyers have announced a strike if this law is passed. The constitutional dispute is in itself the reality of this law and the ministry's response in the direction of a constitutional dispute will be, and as it will be, I find it inconsistent by the Minister of Justice. We've made a vaccination legis so that a constitutional dispute can happen. The independence of the Constitutional Court is guaranteed to us, of course, and what will happen will. I cannot imagine any minister from the European Union who would come before his Parliament with the words "that I now know, despite the fact that I have proposed that the constitutional dispute will take place". This is news to me, but our minister as one of the members of the EU Presidency said'so we will see what happens'. As far as the Law on Lawyering is concerned, I must say that the real fear we have in the Lip Group is that many lawyers who are registered in the Register of Free Legal Aid will cancel this entry. And we know who the free legal aid is intended for - an increasing number, according to the government's policy, unfortunately, this free aid is intended. And if the quality of this free aid falls under this law, even though it is served by a large number or by an increasing number of people in this country, then such a law simply cannot be supported, it cannot be supported. If you wanted to mislead people, Members of Parliament, the public, anyone, by means of this law in connection with the Law on free legal aid, in connection with the Law on legal tariffs, this tariff has been reduced, I must tell you that you have failed, sorry for you, plus for us. You didn't make it. People can read, people can think. And once again, the laws are written on people's skin. Each person wants quality for a certain price; this law takes quality away from them, and the price remains the same, which is not good. Legal disputes are usually conflicts where a person wants to succeed in the end, and this law makes it impossible for him to do so. If I finish, I will say, in such a "misculant" the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice and everything else in the Lip Group we do not want to participate. That is why I am already predicting the obstruction of dealing with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Dimitrij Kovačič has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the presentation of the opinions, it was also heard that fear could arise after this law was passed. Sadly, though, there was also nothing to be afraid of or fear of. It would be good to hear that too, but apparently those who talk about it do not know that. The law is adopted in the public interest, in the interest of all the inhabitants of our country. The law is not adopted in the interests of lawyers. Or even, the law is not adopted in the interest of the Bar, which has also been heard that the Bar should be the one directing and directing the text of the laws. No, the law is in the public interest and in particular in the interest of those who use legal services. In no way does the economic initiative change, in no way does the independence and autonomy of lawyers change, and this does not change. And the independence and autonomy of lawyers has been according to the current law, and it will also be according to this law that we are adopting today. However, independence and autonomy are not absolute, it was not absolute under the current law and will not be absolute under the new law. There is no complete autonomy and complete independence anywhere. For this we have a law that regulates this area and that is why we have a law that has now regulated this area. And when we talk about legal tariffs, the current law also spoke about the legal rate, which was not set by every lawyer, but by the Chamber of Attorneys with the consent of the Minister. So, where is absolute independence and autonomy here? It can't be. The restriction of this independence would have occurred if a new proposal had been written here, for example, that the Minister himself would set a legal tariff, then this would have been justified, but the legal rate would have laid down the law adopted in this National Assembly as the highest decision-making body in that country. Well, speaking the contrary, I don't think it makes any sense. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party agree with, in our view, the key purpose of this law, which is to achieve a more economical process wherever lawyers perform their services. Contrary to current regulation, a major step forward is that the costs of legal services will be known in the future, regardless of how many applications the lawyer will prepare and how many hearings will be signed or how long the process will take. You will probably agree that there is a big step forward. In the future, everyone will know how much legal work will cost him. And in this way, all parties in the process, including, of course, a lawyer, will be more interested and, more recently, financially motivated to make the procedures as short as possible or to avoid proceedings, but the parties may be settled before the initiation of the procedure. In this way, this law will also contribute to shorter procedures by making the courts and other bodies more efficient, less burdensome, and thus take an important step towards resolving and remedying judicial backlogs, which we know represent a very serious problem in Slovenia. And all of this, according to the Lukenda project, leads to this goal. As my time is running out, I will not list all the positive effects that are also in the fact that the disciplinary commission is also made up of external legal experts, which means that there will also be a greater respect for and public interest. And all of this, and other reasons that have already been explained, leads the Slovenian Democratic Group's Group of Ambassadors to support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. 2008 I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. There are no debaters. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. Mr. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Article 25 therefore provides, inter alia, that there is a lighter infringement if the lawyer does not notify the change of office seat. This suggests in an easier form how all these legal matters are in deep connection with the Bar. It's a thought that keeps coming up, what kind of place to give to this Bar Association. Already on behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Kovacic has clearly raised the question of who will represent people in front of lawyers. Lawyers have a special status under the law, a publicly recognized status. When they have publicly recognized status, they immediately follow the fact that they cannot set their own tariffs. We have thus eliminated this condition, because we have given them an exclusive right, there is no longer a market system, but a monopoly system and therefore a reference to the need to refer to the Bar, that they must say something, that is, of course, unacceptable. Those dealing with the problem of corporate governance and the provision of a market system. Therefore, it is also pointless to call for the establishment of an economic situation, a competitive situation, you cannot, unless you abolish this special status of the Bar, as a monopoly, but only in this case can you say that this is a free judgment. And then only conditions are laid down for who can provide legal services, education and so on and then sanctions follow that you can't do that if you abuse your profession. So who's going to represent the citizens in front of the lawyers? And then we ask ourselves, why are there such prices? Are you going to give the bar an opportunity to price itself and have a monopoly? Who will then protect the citizens in this country? And why are there such high prices? Because we have similar forms of monopolies as well as cessos in other areas. Slovenia is full of powers, monopolies, connections, which then make hunters along with politics, different other stakeholders and so on. The key law in American law is the prevention of cartels and monopolies. This is a fundamental civil law, not an economic law. We didn't ask our lawyers here with such ease. All right, let's have an opinion. Why not? Do they have the right to veto all that will be accepted in the National Assembly? Yeah, but where did we come from? Is this a democratic society? In 39 C.E., the late Hayek announced what would happen to totalitarian systems and also said what was typical of such totalitarian systems. Corporate society. And chambers, mandatory chambers with such a monopoly are typical representatives of the corporate society. And then we ask ourselves in Slovenia and in Europe why prices are rising. It's the monopolistic connections. Mr Minister, there is no Minister, but there are representatives of the Government, the Secretary of State, you have done the right thing with this law, but not enough news. Legally, I will also support this provision, but we should move even further in terms of bringing citizens closer. Even more so, don't look at lawyers that much. Look at the citizens who use these services. They're not the problem with lawyers as if they didn't have a position. They have a nice one because it's monopolized.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u87	Thank you very much. There are no other debaters, so I am closing the debate on the amendment to Article 25. I am putting to the debate Article 48 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS parliamentary groups. There are no debaters. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, this is a second defensive proposal for a law on agriculture within the framework of the ordinary procedure. Since I find that there are no government representatives in the Chamber, not even the chairman of the committee, I will wait a little longer. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Ms Branka Tome, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The Agriculture Act is one of the more important laws laying down the legal basis for the implementation of the common agricultural policy and covering a number of other areas of importance for the development of agriculture. The first and now applicable Agricultural Act was adopted in 2000. Since the entry into the European Union, many of the provisions of this law have become irrelevant as they have come into force of European rules directly, which is particularly the case for agricultural policy measures. At the same time, Community legislation has changed during this period, requiring appropriate adaptation of national legislation. The proposal for an agricultural law also includes some new content which is entirely within the competence of Slovenia and is important for regulating certain areas. Although the basic concept, as well as an important part of the content of the current agricultural law, is maintained, due to a large number of additions it has been estimated that it is appropriate to prepare a new agricultural law. The key news brought by the law is that I would like to explain it below. The proposal complements the objectives of agricultural development, with emphasis on ensuring food security and preserving and improving resources for sustainable food production. Furthermore, the proposal provides that agricultural policy measures should focus primarily on the development of sustainable agriculture, that is, the way in which biodiversity is maintained, soil conservation, soil fertility and environmental protection for living in soil, water and air. The proposal for an agricultural law lays down the farm in more detail than a specific and dominant form of the agricultural holding in which one or more households engage in agricultural activities. In this regard, the procedure for determining the operator on the farm is also more precisely laid down. An important addition is made to the chapter governing the specific administrative procedure for decision-making in the implementation of the actions of the common agricultural policy. The purpose of these amendments is to simplify and adapt the administrative decision-making process, taking into account both Community and national rules in this area. Furthermore, the proposal for a law regulates direct sale from the agricultural holding. It provides that the local market is the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia and that the smaller quantities are those sold directly to the final consumer. An important addition to the quality of agricultural crops and foodstuffs is the so-called national scheme "Goodness from Our Farms", which seeks to achieve the implementation of traditionally produced and processed foods on the market. The possibility of carrying out agricultural tasks at any time shall also be new, provided that the nature of the work process, weather, force majeure or exceptional circumstances so requires. The time-limit for the operation of the current public services is further interrupted by the fact that the current operators will be able to carry out public services for a maximum of seven years from the entry into force of this Act. A public service "management and maintenance of hydromeliorative systems" is being introduced to replace the contractual regulation of these tasks so far following a call for tender. The Institute of Master Farms is also established with a view to establishing a number of farms capable of providing practical training in the agricultural education process. The chapter of the records necessary for the implementation of the common agricultural policy, in particular with regard to the purpose of collecting, connecting and using particular records, is also important. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for an agricultural law was coordinated and coordinated not only within the Government but also with all representative NGOs. This is also confirmed by the fact that no substantive amendments have been tabled so far. The amendments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly were mainly aimed at improving the text of the articles, increasing clarity and nomotechnic additions and do not have the character of substantive interventions to the law, except in the comment on the issue of the regulation of the jurisdiction of the provinces in the field of agriculture. In view of the different understanding of how to regulate the legal question of the jurisdiction of the envisaged provinces, there is also a comment on the non-inclusion of the jurisdiction of the agricultural regions to be regulated by this law. Here we are in the position that it is not legally permissible in the agricultural law to regulate issues, competences and tasks in the agricultural field in advance until the provincial legislation is in place. Your Honor! I suggest that you consider and adopt the agricultural law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the president, Mrs Marjetka Uhan, to present the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u90	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament. At its 30th meeting on 10 April, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for an agricultural law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Law and Legal Services, the Agricultural and Agriculture Chambers of Slovenia and the Union of Farmers of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. In addition to the draft law, members of the Committee received an opinion: Legislative and Legal Services, the opinion of the Council of State and the amendments of the groups of Members: SDS, NSI and DeSUS to the individual articles you have written in the report. These amendments mainly followed the requirements of the Legislative and Legal Service. Well, the Legislative and Legal Service has examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect. As stated, her comments were followed by amendments to the coalition. However, several amendments to the Committee were adopted. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supported the proposal for a law. The representatives of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food presented the main solutions to the bill, stressing that the basic concept and also an important part of the content of the current Agriculture Act has been preserved, but due to a large number of additions it has been estimated that it is appropriate to prepare a new agricultural law. He further presented the key innovations brought by the draft law, which the State Secretary has already said today, so I would not repeat them again. Finally, the Minister added that the early adoption of the law was very important due to the provisions of the specific administrative procedure for the implementation of agricultural policy measures, thus achieving certain simplifications and also the appreciation of implementation. In the debate, members of the Committee raised some questions and made some comments on the proposed contents of the amendments of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI and DeSUS. In most of these, the representatives of the amendments and the government provided appropriate clarifications. As part of the consideration of the amendments tabled, we then adopted the majority of the amendments of the coalition, as well as the amendments of the committees. All of this is contained in the written report which was submitted by reference to the meeting. Finally, we voted on all the articles together and, in the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation was prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended bill is also an integral part of this report that you have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Saiovic, on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Nice greeting also to all representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture. What about the agricultural law? It is undoubtedly an extremely important and necessary law for Slovenia, which we do not oppose in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Even more so, when it comes to the adoption of this law, we want to participate actively, as it is an area that is extremely important for Slovenia in the light of developments on the world market and in the light of climate change, and agriculture for Slovenia and Slovenia will undoubtedly become an even more important factor and a more important area. What about the law itself? Of course, Slovenian agriculture and Slovenian agricultural policy remained relatively small. We are tied to the European framework and it is right to contribute to this European framework in Slovenia as well. It is essentially a law that lays down, in a new and European legal order, a legal framework for ensuring the comprehensive sustainable development of agriculture in Slovenia, but it is only necessary, but not a sufficient condition for sustainable agricultural development, which, as our long-term objective, must to the greatest extent ensure food self-sufficiency and security in our country. The planning, adoption and implementation of agricultural policy measures remains the main task of current agricultural policy holders. Many of the most important areas affected by the law are listed in several articles. It seems particularly important to us that we plan for development, that we plan for agricultural policy measures, that we discuss the specific arrangements of the administrative procedure, that we clearly and loudly take care of food safety and, above all, their quality. That all agricultural crops are properly labelled as being regulated by agricultural crops or by food, and that we preserve biodiversity, that we give due attention to complementary activities and public services in agriculture, and that we take care of research and education, that we regulate the right to farming, which is and must be important, necessary and strategic right. And without sufficient bureaucracy, unfortunately, this united Europe is not going to work. Otherwise, the system of European agriculture would become opaque and uncontrollable. And that, at the moment when we accept important law for Slovenia, we do not close our eyes to the many problems that we are facing in Slovenian agriculture and that we are dealing effectively with them. We have already talked about the very excessive collection of this segment, more than 75,000 Slovenian farmers and farmers, who are applying for subsidies, are faced with this every year and regardless of the annual criticisms and problems they are, we must say and acknowledge that we are upgrading, repairing and improving the system and that it is time for those matters in Slovenia that are the most affected by the bell in the field of agriculture to be effectively tackled. We have not yet discussed climate change, there will be a lot of work here in the long term, there is a general agricultural insurance company going on, I think a proper debate on genetically modified organisms. Here I think we Slovenians have told each other many times what we want and what we don't want, and we don't want to be a guinea pig. And to deal with the problems that self-sustaining food in Slovenia is too small. In this area, we are becoming extremely vulnerable to influences in the global market and to pour clean wine in those areas, that we have built too many good ones and good lawns in the past and that in this area we really say that we are building on the best surfaces, which is also planned in advance, that this is not progress in agriculture. We will do more for progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u93	Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u94	We have before us a new Law on Agriculture, which preserves the essence of the content already in the old law, but is supplemented, in line with EU legislation and other laws, and in particular follows the requirements of the current needs of agriculture. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that the law must follow the fundamental requirements of agricultural and Slovenian policies, ensure food security, ensure quality food, sustainable farming, and, in the first place, preserve the conditions of agricultural resources. Thus, farming cannot be disruptive to the environment if works are carried out which are required to be carried out in accordance with technology and natural conditions within a specified time limit. In Novi Slovenija we would like to simplify procedures, reduce administrations and, above all, adapt agricultural policy, including the situation of Slovenian agriculture, which is farming in significantly more difficult natural conditions of farming than most European countries. We can also add to this fragmented property, small private-owned areas, unregulated ownership leases and so on. It was incomprehensible to disagree with every farmer's logic that in the past many applications were rejected, because of the incomprehensibleness of red tape, but not because of the unscheduled work, the provision of farming, quality, the method of farming, which is why funds are obtained. This is how the law sets out farmers, farmers who are entitled to receive funds, agricultural policy measures which are responsible for providing data, keeping records and so on. In short, terminology is regulated, procedures that have been inadequately addressed in the past. The agricultural economies in difficulty can, after a new one, run for aid, of course, if they have not gone into trouble on their own account. It regulates the direct sale of the agricultural holding, defines small quantities, the local market, where crops and agricultural products can be sold. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that very little has been done in the past in this area and that the legislation of this area has been meaningless, hinderive and that this law is significantly better. Direct sale from farms was thrown into the same basket with the processing industry regarding technical, sanitary and other conditions. Direct sales are significantly underperforming. Food, in the food article, is a living substance that does not bear the consequences of long manipulations from transport, translation, storage, various forms and procedures. Consumers, public institutions, the local market must be aware of this, and only food produced in the local environment can be fresh, directly controlled with known origin. Therefore, in New Slovenia we strongly support the changes in the law that are going in this direction, as well as the sub-laws, the rules that have already followed these facts. Certain quality and definition of crops from our farms are adequately addressed in the law in order not to mislead consumers in order to avoid using this term for crops that are far from actually produced products that deserve that name. We also want to supplement the law in New Slovenia with the amendment to the 122nd Article, which deals with public services in the field of agriculture. Among other things, the law provides for a public service to maintain hydromeliorative systems. In New Slovenia we propose an amendment that these works may be carried out by farms or landowners under certain conditions prescribed by the Minister. We believe that farmers could do these jobs more cost-effectively. The law also speaks of mastery farms, what farm must be like to meet these conditions, as well as who has master's exam. Experience, tradition and knowledge from different fields cannot be replaced by any other institution. The law provides for regulated control of the control organisation to ensure compliance of agricultural foodstuffs, crops. In New Slovenia we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice President, Government representatives, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the bill introduces a number of innovations and improvements that will affect long-term planning for the development of agriculture and food. The proposal makes it possible to implement agricultural policy measures more effectively and to adapt faster to competition requirements. It is also envisaged to adopt a national programme for agricultural and rural development. We know, however, that the provisions of the Agriculture Act need to be amended or supplemented in a work where it does not provide the necessary grounds for implementing Community rules. The draft law redefines the definition of a farm as a form of an agricultural holding where one or more households engage in agricultural activities. We support the regulation of direct sales from the agricultural economy, within which the entire territory of Slovenia is defined as a local market. Direct sales will provide an additional opportunity for the development and existence of Slovenian farms. The advantages are the additional earnings on the farm for the same amount of basic production, the sale of products at a higher level of completion, the higher buying-in price of products, the independence of intermediaries, the additional employment of the workforce and the immediate payment. It is right to establish a legal basis that will allow for the production and production of the traditional methods of production, processing and marketing. In the field of quality or labelling of agricultural crops and foodstuffs, it is important to complement the so-called national scheme "Goodness with Farms", which seeks to achieve the implementation of traditionally produced and processed foods on the market. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will also support the law because it provides the legal basis for the issue of regulations, quality and action by the competent inspection services. It is important for us to ensure the quality of products and the protection of consumers' interests. We know that in practice certain conditions have significantly limited complementary activities on farms. Taking into account the current situation in Slovenian agriculture, most Slovenian farms must seek additional earnings outside the basic agricultural activity. Slovenian farmers are traditionally engaged in domestic trade, processing agricultural crops and service activities. Complementary activities are essential for small farms to ensure social security for the farm family and for the full employment of family members. The implementation of legislation in this area has shown some shortcomings. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposal to simplify administrative procedures that have so far constituted an important obstacle to the rapid development of this activity. It is also necessary to address the problem of employment in the case of non-family members, the main objective is to allow for additional employment activities, thereby increasing employment opportunities in the rural area and reducing administrative barriers to the registration of complementary activities. Based on practice, we believe that it is also a very welcome provision for the performance of agricultural activities. It is unacceptable for farmers who have been engaged in agriculture for centuries to be prevented and hindered. It is not clear to some rural immigrants that agricultural activity is also taking place there, and they allow themselves to go beyond all the boundaries of good taste and farmers who are merely doing their daily work, literally harassing and threatening their inspection services or lawsuits. The long-term consequence of such and other restrictions on agricultural activities is also undoubtedly the abandonment of this activity and the protection of rural areas. The bill provides for protection for those engaged in agricultural activities in accordance with the rules, ensuring that the law does not have a negative, harmful impact on the natural environment and the living space of humans and animals. The draft law sets out directly the objectives of the agricultural policy to achieve the economic, spatial, ecological and social roles of agriculture and its sustainable development. In the hope that the law will be a good basis for achieving these objectives, we will support the proposal for an agricultural law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Members of Parliament and Members of the Government! In the DeSUS Group we intend to support the new proposed organisation of the agricultural area. The new Agriculture Act is adopted eight years after the adoption of the current one, which was a systemic basis primarily for the effective preparation of the adoption of the common agricultural policy before our country's entry into the European Union. Slovenia, by entering the European Union and by taking over the common agricultural policy, maintained only a small part of its competence to manage national agricultural policy, which proved to be very successful. And in the future, it is still a meaningful area of agriculture to build up and provide good foundations for the future to increase the development potentials of our agriculture and thus the rural areas. The content of the proposed law shows a number of innovations and improvements that will lead to further positive trends in this sector of the economy. In particular, changes and additions will be in favour of further long-term development, which should be positive for both the activity and its operators and us consumers. A more recent definition of the farm, the agricultural holding and its members and the mandatory determination of the farm operator will help to effectively implement the measures, as the rights and obligations conferred on them in relation to certain activities are also clearly reflected in their role both in the implementation of individual activities and in the application and use of recognised measures. We particularly welcome, in this proposal for a law, the substantial improvement of the content of the law in relation to the exposed quality criterion for agricultural food and products, and thus consumer protection, compared to the current regulation. The welcome news for agricultural economies is the possibility of additional earnings and good promotion of agricultural products and foodstuffs, for example through provisions on direct sales in small quantities on the local market. It also added a new category in quality schemes "Goodness with Farms". The area of complementary activities also makes sense to relieve the conditions improved in the interests of the existence of mainly smaller farms, whose survival depends largely on these additional sources of earnings that can be generated through continuous, seasonal or occasional activities. The introduction of a new type of farm "master farm" will, of course, be an additional source of income at home, but this type of farm is of paramount importance, including in terms of educational and research work, as listeners or practitioners will gain new knowledge and experience from direct farmers in the field of new production technologies, crop and product production arrangements and new agricultural services. What seems crucial to the consistent and effective implementation of agricultural policy measures is certainly a more detailed regulation of records and registers maintained by the competent authorities, with a view to a more transparent selection of all types of data that will allow for easier and faster enforcement of the rights of beneficiaries, as well as better control over the adoption of the measures implemented. The administrative procedures themselves concerning the enforcement of applications and the issuance of provisions are directed through the focus of the removal of administrative barriers, to economics - both from a time and a financial point of view for applicants, as well as for the authorities or entities that decide on them. The fact that the law has been harmonised both within government departments and between representative organisations that have expressed in principle satisfaction with the legal content and have been added to the law of a majority of the nomotechnic nature or the content of the provisions are more specifically defined does not indicate that the text is qualitatively prepared and thus clearly sets out all the necessary guidelines for the further effective development and approach to the implementation of a successful and competitive agricultural policy. It is also worth noting that there is an urgent need to have such legal and legal bases in place so that our agriculture is also in the future in line with the new concepts of food production and the need to adapt to climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. We can certainly say that the Agriculture Act follows the development objectives of agriculture and regulates quite a few areas in the agricultural field, which will probably also significantly help to make it easier to collect records, to facilitate the regulation of registers, and not least to make it easier to join in the tendering for grants, as well as the other calls offered by the municipalities today for the development of agriculture. Right here in the records is the biggest problem if we can call it that, because we know in fact that it is necessary or too demanding to bureaucraticly collect these data sometimes for farmers, it seems very problematic, and it is right for me to gather these records somewhere in common registers, which will also simplify the tender procedures for obtaining the actual funds for the development of agriculture, either by Europe or by the municipalities. It is true, however, that in the area of agriculture, there remain open questions which are called after the areas are regulated and the subsidies are those which, somehow, even in the Slovenian National Party, we cannot claim with the assurance that they are granted in a transparent and legal manner. I come from Primorska and the first thing is, it is illegal that audits or inspections are not carried out on the ground, that this is often done as a matter of fact on the basis of an individual's table on the basis of the old photos of 2006, and that here is also often made for someone, of course with ease, what he asks gets, and for the second one he easily deletes at all. Decisions to be included in the issue shall be sent in a manner consistent with the complaints. As a rule, if you complain, you end up getting nothing. I have one case here and we are coordinating this matter with the Minister and we are trying to resolve it, but external contractors who are authorized in this area to share mercy and mercy with those who want to work on the farm have scissors and canvas in their hands and can work according to their own judgment what they feel is right. This is a kind of crime and that is why we will not be very silent in the Slovenian National Party as well. We'll go, as they call it, to the end. Secondly, we can commend the Slovenian National Party's initiative to abolish the Agricultural Lands Fund and bring the jurisdiction of these lands to the municipalities, which are actually expected to have the opportunity of harmonious and regional development also through this good, has been supported positively, and here in the last reply I can be pleased that the Government has approached the idea that it is preparing the legal basis for it to do so. So the Fund of Agricultural Lands is supposed to hand over its land to the municipalities, and here I see so much more important in the area of agriculture competences that municipalities are supposed to regulate in the future. And what is regulated by the law, the area of agriculture within the framework of the provinces, is still a bit far away for us. Let us also hope that we will not accept on ad hoc ad hoc lands that will then be their own purpose and that they will not have enough resources to function in a quality manner. We know that not only agriculture, including public institutions, including schools, including kindergartens, everything else, is transferred to the provinces, and here we see a weakness. If that happens, agriculture will certainly go a step back. We will support this law in the Slovenian National Party. I would, however, like to point out once again the government's representatives on subsidies - I am sorry that there is no minister here today - who, according to European principles and criteria, are also unjustifiably taxed to overwind the allocation of such subsidies and to introduce legality and transparency so that it will not be possible for anyone to get everything, even through family ties and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Lipa Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The proposal for an agricultural law is a fundamental law that touches the most neglected industries in our country. Unlike the predecessors, I will not read what the Government has written in the explanation of the law, but I will focus mainly on the facts that are not in the law, or on the questions that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would expect to answer when adopting this law. The first such question is certainly natural disasters. When we proposed an amendment in the Lipa Group to increase the means to fight the tide, you did not listen. When we proposed, at the notice of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not have a programme designed to combat drought, you did not want to listen. And today we listen to all of you save Slovenian agriculture. Therefore, I would like to thank the representatives of the Government, regardless of the absence of a minister, in advance for all the answers to my questions. When the percentage of farmers in the Republic of Slovenia fell and we took the initiative to promote the education of farmers in Slovenian farms, there was no response. Regarding the warning that farmers do not receive subsidies, but we have already taxed them, I must say that subsidies are paid by the European Union, and I am interested to know whether it is stuck in payment on the European Union - Slovenia and Slovenia - farmers, or whether it is stuck on the route of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - farmers. I thank you in advance for this answer, too, because I have not been able to get it by now. If I continue to look at Slovenian agriculture, I must say that the law as such is the law that is supposed to regulate the area of agriculture in an integrated manner in the Republic of Slovenia. And it's only right to support him. Any law that will bring any good for Slovenian agriculture in any way and in any way is good to support. True, once again, I would like to emphasise, when it comes to all initiatives by the opposition or by the Lip Group of Members to do something for Slovenian agriculture, we always get a negative answer. I must say that in every draft budget within the mandate of this government, we have proposed amendments to increase the protection of the security against the flow. But the Ministry of Agriculture said, "We don't need it, we don't want it, the money is enough, the reserve fund is high enough to pay for it." In the end, farmers suffer no matter what. I don't know, maybe it's a wrong agricultural policy on the part of a single minister, because it doesn't work enough within the government to really do something for agriculture or agriculture, or I'll say it in Styrian, "befel" or an order by the President of the Government, if agriculture has enough, we can't do it anymore and we can't do it anymore. Be honest, and once again, honestly tell us what is going on in the agricultural field. The last thing I would like to mention is the so-called sale of agricultural land in the area of Prekmurje and Upper Styria, because we know that agricultural land is predominantly owned by foreigners, based on that story about the inability to pay the Slovenian farmer credits. The English have come, they've picked up the agricultural land at a very affordable price, they're going to maintain it for a while, then they're probably going to get a building permit. But the fields are unworked. They lie like this when they are. Is the government also preparing a solution in this area? A fundamental question to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: Is it not possible to tell farmers in this country in truth, without doubt, what their future is and what they may expect or may not be directed to any other sector?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u103	Mr Franz Sušnik will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear President! Dear Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen! The Agriculture Act, which is being addressed and adopted by the National Assembly, is an important document for the development of our agriculture in the coming period. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that this is the right and right response to the new farming conditions that we are facing after Slovenia's entry into the EU. We are also convinced that the agricultural law is a necessary and necessary framework for implementing the adopted agricultural policy and for continuing the implementation of the ongoing rural development programme. The law summarizes an important part of the content of the 2000 law, all that has proved to be good, and complements these contents with the new solutions required by the current moment. Above all, it seems important to us to emphasise that the law establishes and defines a comprehensive system for planning agricultural and rural development, which will also be reflected in the envisaged adoption of the national programme for agricultural and rural development. The objectives are complemented by emphasis on providing food safety professionals with emphasis on maintaining and improving resources for the sustainability of food production. The law defines the farm in more detail as a form of an agricultural holding where one or more households engage in agricultural activities. In this regard, the procedure for determining the operator on such a farm shall also be specified more precisely. The law also provides for the possibility of solving agricultural economies in difficulty if they have entered into these problems or a difficult financial situation, which we think is particularly important for the period of further restructuring of Slovenian agriculture. It should also be stressed that the chapter governing the specific administrative procedure for decision-making in the implementation of the actions of the common agricultural policy is being substantially complemented. The aim of these changes is mainly to simplify and remove administrative barriers. Direct agricultural sales are further regulated, which we consider to be an important contribution to improving competitiveness in the field of public supply and an important contribution to the development of agriculture. It is established that the local market is the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia and small quantities are determined, otherwise they are quantities where the quantities can be sold directly to the final consumer. I think it is important to stress that the law introduces a new public service to manage and maintain hydromeliorative systems that will replace the current contractual non-regulation of these tasks following calls for proposals. This is a response to the growing problems posed by global change. It is also important to break the time gap of public services by allowing current operators to carry out public services for a maximum period of seven years from the entry into force of this Act. However, I think it is important before the adoption of this law to stress that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has succeeded in harmonising the content of the law with the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, trade unions, with all the factors in the field of agriculture. It is also important to stress that the law has not received major substantive supplements from the opposition, which directly proves that this bill is an appropriate basis and a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u106	Thank you for your word and very much welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for an agricultural law is a statutory law governing a sensitive area of agriculture in Slovenia. The law should therefore specify in particular how to achieve stable quality food production, how to produce as cheap and safe food as possible and how to ensure food safety and self-sustainment in Slovenia. Unfortunately, we note that the law does not provide adequate solutions in these main solutions and we find that it is inaccurate in this area. The law provides for the adoption of a national programme for the development of agriculture and rural areas, but is not defined in the law within which the Government must draw up a national programme and within which time limit the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should also consider and adopt it. This is of particular concern to us as the national programme identifies the situation analysis, the evaluation of the economic, social and environmental situation and the development potential, the long-term development objectives of the agricultural policy set out in the national programme, then sets out measures, programmes and other activities to achieve the objectives, assess the expected effects and the necessary public funding for the implementation of the agricultural policy. This is supposed to be the content of a national programme under this law, which we do not know when it should be adopted in Slovenia at all. This, as I said, is of particular concern to us, since we are meeting in Slovenia in comparison with other members of the European Union with the average share of rural areas. 67% of all municipalities, 77% of the total territory of the Republic of Slovenia is located in the rural area where about 41% of the population lives. Let me remind you that the demographic structure of rural areas is going a long way or very unpleasant. We are facing population ageing, we are faced with an outflow of young people from rural areas, and it is especially beautiful or unpleasant age structure in farm households. More than half of agricultural holdings are over 55 years old. 19% of the masters are under 45. And even if we look at almost 60% of the country's territory being covered by forests and 32% representing agricultural land, we can find that almost 73% of the agricultural land is recorded in restricted areas. We are therefore asking Social Democrats whether this law really provides solutions for this situation of agriculture in Slovenia. In fact, a large part of this law is intended for the administrative process, not for the agricultural problem. This needlessly burdens only the text of the law and makes it imprecise. At the same time, when I said so, it does not provide answers in the agricultural field to these pressing problems. If we say that income subsidies represent already 60% of the income of private agricultural activities today, we believe that the situation is very worrying and should be followed by other countries that have a more efficient system. Let me make a quick comparison with Germany. The German agricultural law has only nine members, ours has 189. And the German agricultural law makes it very clear that, in particular, tax, credit and pricing policies should allow agriculture to compensate for existing natural and economic constraints compared to other activities and increase its productivity, while also comparing the social situation of the rural population with comparable occupational groups. Unfortunately, we do not follow such effective solutions in this law. The law [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Otherwise, we will not object, but we note his shortcomings. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u107	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 21 April 2008. I am putting to the debate Article 9 and the amendment of the Group of Social Democrats. I am opening an application for a debate on Article 9 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u108	Thank you. In the debate and presentation of the views of certain parliamentary groups, it was said that there were no substantive comments to the Agriculture Act and that there were no substantive amendments. The amendment to Article 9 concerns the adoption of a national programme and let me say that the amendment has also been proposed by the Council of State with the same content. In fact, in the State Council there was the creation of this amendment through the professional debate and the presence of the Agricultural-Parent Chamber. We can therefore talk about the fact that the profession warns, not just the policy, that the adoption of a national programme for the development of agriculture and rural development is a key document in this law, which is very poorly defined. In the current text of the law, we are talking only about general guidelines, that the national programme should show an analysis of the situation, an evaluation of the economic and social situation, programmes to achieve the objectives, an assessment of the expected effects and the necessary public funding for the implementation of agricultural policy. It is crucial, however, that we do not say when we will adopt a national programme in the Republic of Slovenia, when the Government will determine the text of the national programme and when the National Assembly will be able to address it. Let me also continue the debate compared to Germany. So the Agriculture Act has made it very clear to the federal government that the government has to report annually to the National Assembly on the state of agriculture. What's going on with us? The following is happening with us: the Agricultural Institute prepares an analysis of the situation in agriculture and forestry and is presented by the Government. The Government shall place it somewhere after one or sometimes two or more years to be considered in the National Assembly. The National Assembly then finds that this text is not interesting and that it does not need to be discussed at a meeting of the National Assembly because the information is already outdated. That's what happened to us this year. And if we do not agree in Slovenia that we will - and I will say again on the example of Germany - agree to monitor annually the assessment of the income situation of agriculture on the basis of voluntary accounting, in particular they must be included in this monitoring of different farms by size as well as farms coming from different areas. In Slovenia, there are still some different landscapes or regions that offer entirely different opportunities for farming. And it would then be necessary for the Government to report to the National Assembly, on the basis of such analyses on these farms, annually, of course, mandatory before the adoption of the budget for each year, on this situation and in particular on what is the movement of personal income, what is the movement of employees, what is the situation of family members on the farm compared to similar occupational groups in the country. In particular, we also want to have a very clear picture of what tax policy we need in Slovenia in order to maintain the sustainable development and existence of a peasant family in Slovenia. We do not get answers to all these questions either in the consideration of the Agriculture Act, nor in the consideration of the individual budget for the current year or for the two-year period when we adopt them, and even less of them are available today when we adopt the Agricultural Act, and some of the solutions we see that we need to have a national programme better than that provided for in this law, we want to define them in our amendment. In particular, let me point out that it is necessary to monitor, as we speak with our amendment, the interaction between the individual sectors of agriculture within the national programme, because sometimes we also have the feeling that an area within agriculture is introduced in a way that is in fact only interested in its area and much less concerned about what is happening in other areas. And if we don't reconcile all these interests, if we don't compare all these data and if we don't define some agricultural policy from this, of course, the national programme can't be good. It is also very important that we have a national programme that will take account of a balanced ecological, economic and social development criterion. Already in the introduction, I said that in fact 70% of agricultural land is located in areas where farming is very difficult. Therefore, these lands need to be handled with great caution. Such land is usually also located in catchment areas, usually such land is also sought or earmarked for construction, for roads, for highway construction and so on. And this balanced approach to environmental protection, especially the protection of drinking water and the preservation of quality of all our water resources, is one of the key tasks in Slovenia, for once we have a favourable water balance and I do not think it would be good to make this situation worse. In the preparation of the national programme, the special place must have an innovative application approach through research and, in particular, the transfer of the results of these research and the results of global technological achievements into agricultural practice in Slovenia. I think that this area in Slovenia is also kept in the sense that we certainly do not follow all the knowledge that we have both at our national institutes and at some other research institutions in Slovenia, so that we do not actually make sure that this knowledge is transferred to the farmer, to a particular farm. In fact, this does not lead to the necessary animation of young people to feel their opportunity and their opportunity to further develop and solve the existence of agriculture. If agriculture is trying to deal solely with and only in a way that something needs to be planted, to process something to sprinkle, to clean up in the fall, it is essential that we do not add to this all the knowledge that is necessary, how can we achieve all this, that this crop is healthy, that the work carried out by the farmer is also safe, that there is no injury, that there is no unnecessary illness due to the misuse of the various substances. Finally, each farm also has its own efficient information system, where it can obtain all the new technological knowledge from a given area, so that it can also often then assess what it needs in order to successfully develop its farm in the future. The same area of advice is one of those areas that should be further defined in the national programme and I think it is clear to all that today we are meeting both dissatisfied advisers in advisory services and dissatisfied users of these services. And it is by means of better knowledge of all technologies and knowledge that the farm itself raises the level of cooperation with farmers or advisers. Counselors are also aware that, in fact, in the services they perform, they cannot only refer to certain regulations and laws that are adopted, but also to monitoring and improving the many measures that science in fact brings in this area. With this amendment to Article 9, we really want to give a special place just to all of this to learn that agriculture in Slovenia is becoming even more interesting, even more attractive, so that we can really talk about knowing what we want in agriculture. Not only in agriculture, because this national programme is also adopted for rural development. This, however, affects an even larger population and an even larger number of tasks that need to be carried out into a particular environment, so that someone who wants to carry out or additional activities on a farm or who wants to live in a rural area without agriculture with other rural activities can also do so, is one of the key strategic documents that should be adopted in Slovenia yesterday, but not in the future, for which we do not actually say, this national programme would be adopted. Let me draw attention to the fact that a number of articles in the agricultural law in the implementation of this law are, in fact, genuinely linked to the adoption of a national programme. And without the adoption of a national programme, municipalities, which is also one of the innovations, cannot in fact adopt their rural development programmes, as the programmes to be adopted by the municipalities must not run counter to the national agricultural and rural development programme adopted by the State or proposed by the Government for adoption by the National Assembly. Rural development measures and rural development aid managers are also linked to the adoption of a national rural development programme. This is an extremely important document, for which we find that we need it in Slovenia, and we are moving it away to an uncertain future, which means that rural and agricultural development by adopting this law will not, in fact, acquire anything. It is that the law somehow clears the text in that part that needs to be cleaned in order to comply with certain European rules. There is also an attempt to introduce a special administrative procedure into this law, which is unusual for us to resolve in such a system law a proper administrative procedure. These are just approaches that say that the agricultural law does not speak very much about agriculture, but too much about all the other sectors that we meet that it cites. I'm also going to warn you about some of these with the next amendment, then I'm going to try to give you some information about the management of the melioration systems. This is a new public service introduced by this law, but a few more words in the amendment, which is still to be followed, although this is also part of the national programme. However, in this part of the national programme, I want to raise this issue, because water management is governed by the water law. And of course, the Ministry of the Environment has a whole range of institutions, public institutions that care about how water is to be managed. I expect that the national agricultural development programme will harmonise the interests of both the Ministry of Environment and Space and the interests of the Ministry of Agriculture. And that is why, in our amendment to this article, we are also talking about the need to coordinate all information between sectors, to coordinate at national level and, above all, to take into account the principle of partnership so that one institution really knows what it is and can complement and become partners in this. This is a few important warnings regarding the agricultural law and this key weakness that we do not know what is happening with the national programme which imposes truly the most concrete solutions, and I hope, of course, that this amendment will be adopted, which would be a small step towards improving the content of the agricultural law, although my opinion is very much approaching the direction of other European countries, where the agricultural law should actually give those essential guidelines and the foundations that we need in the country, so that we can then draw up with individual specific laws so-called rural development, tax legislation and also the resolution of all other sectors in the agricultural field. However, we do not all combine in one broad, opaque text, which we must then change on several occasions due to this scattered treatment, and in the end you do not know what is being done by the agricultural law and we do not even know exactly how to approach the rural and agricultural situation in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Look, after everything I've heard now, I don't even know how to start, but I think it's important to say that we do appreciate the opposition's contribution to the legislative process of drafting such an important law as the agricultural law, but I regret that this contribution is so modest. In view of everything that has been said, you have not taken advantage of the opportunity of the public debate offered to you. At 189 articles of the law, no one from the opposition submitted any additions, no amendments to the second reading. We are pleased, however, that, in fact, you acknowledge that this is a good law, that you have succeeded and that you have made a comment on a deadline not recorded for the adoption of the national programme, and that you have expressed your disagreement that the Ministry of Agriculture is taking over the management and maintenance of the hydromeliorative systems. It's also all that this broad criticism we've been hearing from my predecessor narrows down. However, I think this is an important law, and I would like to say in this context that we do not support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we do not feel we need it. I am convinced that the proposal contained in Article 9 of the Law is sufficient and that any responsible government that has the right attitude towards agriculture and rural areas will hurry by adopting the national programme and submitting it to the National Assembly. The proposal also reflects, to the greatest extent, the relationship between the government coalition and the government of Janez Janša and agriculture. On this point, I would like to say that my predecessor's argument that the State Assembly does not address the situation in the field of agro-food and agriculture is not true. On the contrary, this is regularly dealt with in the National Assembly. And I am pleased to be able to highlight the important emphasis of the last reading of this report. This report for 2005 and 2006 identifies, for the first time in more than a decade, the significant decline in the economic situation of the farmer and the first improvement in this area. This is very important and this trend is important. It was first detected in 2005 and this trend is moving forward in 2006. An important finding of annual reports is also that subsidies or payments in agricultural policy are an important part of agricultural income, which is already worth 50% of agricultural subsidies. As a result, it should also be stressed that last year everything that was left behind in agriculture has been paid. And there wasn't a lot of backlogs. EUR 350 million of agricultural policy measures for 2007 show the respect and attitude of this National Assembly, after all, as well as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to agriculture, to the problems facing agriculture and our rural areas. I am convinced that the law we are adopting is a good basis for removing those administrative obstacles and simplifying the agricultural policy procedures already adopted in the 2007-2013 period, so that we can successfully support the rural development programme, implement the rural development programme, which brings significant income to agriculture of as many as billions. This is important for our agriculture to finally adapt to the conditions of farming in the European Union. However, once again with this amendment to Article 9, I must express my appreciation to the Ministry of Agriculture that it has drawn up a quality law that has been aligned with the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, with the Union, with the agricultural partners, and a law that has not received substantive comments and corrections. Nor by the opposition, which shows that the solutions are true and I believe that this is another additional contribution to the development of agriculture and rural areas in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u111	Thank you. You want a debate or a replica? I am reopening my application for debate because I see more deadlines. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable representative and representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As regards the law, the new agricultural law, I can now say that the New Slovenia Group will support it. Many words have already been said, and it really seems that we Members understand agriculture very much. It is true that Slovenian agriculture is very specific, as it had to either shift from typical Yugoslav agriculture in a relatively short time or adapt to the common European agricultural policy. This mission is not yet completed. There are still a lot of difficult procedures ahead of us. Let me just say something about the money that this coalition has earmarked for the agricultural sector in the budget, and I will be specific for 2008. Because in money, it all starts and ends with money. For 2008, in the adopted budget, the money for agriculture is about 78% higher than it was in 2004. It is only with this information that I conclude my general debate on this agricultural law. And now on the proposal for an amendment to Article 9 proposed by our colleagues in Social Democracy. First of all, first of all, we immediately notice that Article 9, with the proposal of this amendment, is somehow being inflated on a three-quarter side and the basic article is only a quarter of a page. On the other hand, apparently the Social Democrats like that the German law has only nine members. So they want to get married in some way. We do not see a particular need to complement the provision by defining the content, as proposed by colleagues and colleagues of Social Democracy in this amendment to Article 9. The amended bill contains, in our opinion, all the necessary content. We also assess that the law does not make sense to establish procedures for preparing the adoption and monitoring of the national programme. Any more detailed determination of procedures would limit the process of adopting a national programme, too close the doors at the reception stage. Perhaps the word on the fifth letter in the proposed amendment to Article 9. This paragraph seems irrelevant to us. The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia is a full member of the European Union, which, of course, means a lot. It means, of course, that all rules and programmes must be in line with the rules of the European Union. In this respect, of course, as regards the common agricultural policy. I conclude by announcing the non-support of the New Slovenia Group of Ambassadors to the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 9. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, welcome. I will not support this amendment because I believe that the proposed content does not bring any added value to what is already written in section 9 of the Act. When I listened to the proposaler, colleague Weber, as he explained this amendment to a very broad extent, he explained some things, some things that I somehow cannot see in this amendment. Some of the things that my colleague said, I can't get out of the amendment that it's written here. However, I personally believe that we do not need what is written, but we do not need what is currently written in the draft law in Article 9. I don't think it's necessary for me to write what my colleague Horvat mentioned earlier, which is clear enough. Slovenia is a member of the European Union. However, in order to make something particularly powerful in the law, in particular with some view that it will be clearer, more concrete, I do not know, but I do not agree with that. I believe that it is quite clearly written as regards the national agricultural programme. It is said that the national programme as a term, what is needed, that we also have the law and that we will also implement this national programme, not only will it be written, but that it will also serve virtually all those on either side of the Ministry of Agriculture and on the other hand all those working on agriculture. That way, I will conclude that I will not support the amendment, but I will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will say something first about the amendment, and then also something about the economic propaganda programme, which some have already afforded before me and represent Slovenia as a land where honey and milk flow in agriculture. However, I must say that given that I have spent more than 20 years on the ground in boots and working forms, I must tell you that you are very, very wrong. About the same story as today, and in a kind word, you convinced me also when we were adopting the Plant Protection Act, I announced exactly what happened today, that this was one of the problems, and today, read and see in the media how many tons of pears we ate. But I'll tell you, it's just the tip of the iceberg. Such stories will continue to be shared with us when we engage in thorough and in-depth analyses of the state of agriculture and the environment. And it is precisely the principle of working in the National Assembly that the amendment is to Article 9. You have decided that something the opposition is proposing is unacceptable to you. You're not ready to talk about it, not to talk about it. This amendment to Article 9 is of some value only at the symbolic level: whether we accept it or not, the law will not be significantly better but not significantly worse. But because you took the scissors and the canvas into your own hands and no matter what. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Mr. Jazbec would like to say something - but do I interrupt the debate? [[...]] There's no need. Thank you very much. And that's exactly what we don't want to do, and we don't know how to listen to each other. The opposition would like to call out that everything is wrong in Slovenian agriculture, and the position that it is as good as it is today has never been and never has been. The truth is somewhere in between. However, if we had a more reasoned, less beautifying discussion, the situation for a Slovenian farmer could have been even better. This moment isn't catastrophically bad, but it's a long way from being pink. That we have failed to increase the average Slovenian farm, which is still moving there on good 6,3 - 6,4 hectares, so that we think that we are going to develop, in the vicinity of Ljubljana and the largest Slovenian cities, we have managed to build the best agricultural areas for shopping centres, which we will certainly close in a few years, just as we are happy to open today. Those are the real problems. And that we are already weakening our knees under the weight of the arguments that multinationals have in the field of genetically modified food, so that we can squeeze against the wall of Slovenian organic agriculture, on which we have for many years planted flowers and sung fairy tales that, in cooperation, organic agriculture and tourism is what will draw our fragmented agriculture and the chariot of this agriculture out of the mud. These are the key topics for dealing with what the environment really is, what remains of pesticides in the Slovenian groundwater, for which we know that we have been selling them for many years in Slovenia, but let us say in Prekmurje this pesticides, which apparently come from elsewhere in Slovenia, are found in the groundwater still in increasing quantities and that we are finally turning to agriculture from this cake and to gain little from this added value, that no one hopes to say out loud that the Slovenian processing industry has been unprepared to expect the European Union to cut off trade and the food processing industry, and that less farmers, that of course Slovenian farmers and agriculture in general, who contribute significantly to inflation, are not guilty. That this story is that we shut down the sugar plant in Ormož and fairy tales, that we will now grow bioethanol there and save the energy supply of the state, the farce. That what began to happen in America, when part of the surface began to focus on energy supply, that the production of one litre of biodiesel "burn" about a litre of common diesel. And of course, we have left the common sense to talk and to leave all kinds of stupidity, instead of starting to produce more potatoes and more grain in Slovenia, then the food can be cheaper and better. And I repeat that famous thesis that I see that someone's just opening their eyes while we ban a farmer from slaughtering a body that is now being driven 50 or 150 kilometers away to the slaughterhouses, that's when something is wrong with us. That there was a story and a story about crazy cows, chloramphenicol, and some other story that doesn't have much real status. That there are sporadic cases on the one hand, and that there are other ways of hitting the farmer and his survival and the existence of him every day. These are real cases. And if I give the one for the dot at the end, while in Ljubljana it costs one beer in the inn more than in the countryside costs us a litre of milk, a kilogram of potatoes and ten eggs together, then something is wrong. And finally, once we get this family out of their heads, everything that needs to be grown on farmers has to be free of charge. If we want to eat quality and good food, then it will be significantly more expensive than this moment, and then in the countryside we will have a farmer who will gladly produce this food so that it will not harm the environment and we will continue to be able to boast of the settled Slovenian landscape, as have generations ahead of us. No word, no resolution, no national agricultural agenda can improve. But it improves only solid and quality work, which must have its price. Out of good faith and in order to move together, I will support the amendment to Article 9, because it is a political game, not a substantive one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I can't believe what I'm getting from this amendment. However, I would like to clarify some very accurate data. One of these is that of 189 articles 75 have been amended. These are large-scale amendments to this Act on the basis of, and in particular, the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service adopted by the Committee on Agriculture. In this discussion, we wanted the Social Democrats to propose that the consideration of the law be postponed to one of the following meetings, so that we can examine in detail all of these 75 supplements and also what the actual content of this law will be. The majority, represented by the coalition, did not want to hear such arguments, and the law was placed on the agenda, considered, passed virtually all laws. What we want to draw attention to is an attempt at discrediting why we, even as the opposition, are resorting to the writing of the amendments, why we are even alerting you to something, if you see, as Mr Sušnik says, have the opportunity and let you shape your solutions. Now I ask you, Mr Sušnik, how many laws the opposition has put into the procedure have adopted in this mandate. Would you be willing to adopt an agricultural law to be drafted, say, by the Social Democrats? I seriously doubt it. You are not yet prepared to support this amendment, let alone the text of marriage, which they would draw up on their own and try to put into the procedure. This is the reality of this moment in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I don't know how you can actually tell me that I'm talking about something that isn't written or in this amendment, or it's not about the national programme, or it's not about agriculture. Actually, it would be hard to add more than what I am. However, all of these proposals, which are enshrined in this amendment, have a serious weight, and I also do not agree with the conclusion that this amendment is of a political nature and that it is an amendment in order to try to draw attention to something like this. My colleague Horvat made it very clear that he opposes this amendment in paragraph 5. But let me read you this fifth paragraph. It discusses planning, implementation, monitoring, evaluation and reporting, implementation of the national programme, which must be consistent with EU rules governing rural development. Your Honor! This is precisely the biggest problem of Slovenian agricultural policy. You are all talking about how much money has been earmarked in this recent period for agriculture, that this has increased significantly from 2004 to 2008. However, is there anyone among you who can tell me whether, for all these powerful funds, a document is adopted that allows planning where this money is going, except for the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and the national programme talks about this in this fifth indent, that we need to plan precisely where all these powerful funds are going. Then we must also say how we will implement the use of these planned funds, how we will monitor this spending, how we will, after all, also evaluate the funds invested and measure the impact of the funds so invested. And let someone in this Chamber tell me today whether we are carrying out these procedures for all these funds and whether we value the funds invested in agriculture in a way that we can say: "Look, we have achieved this level of development, our agricultural economies are stable, they are not threatened, the number of farms will no longer decrease in Slovenia, they will increase." Can anyone provide this to me and on what document in Slovenia we are monitoring such a situation - I do not know it! And this fifth paragraph in this amendment is exactly what this is about. And the European Union requires planning and reporting on where each country invests regional development funds, we propose and demand, in this amendment, not least through a very clear text, that we do the same in Slovenia. And let me remind you, this law does not only talk about European funds, it also speaks about state funds and it also speaks about municipal funds. And for a whole range of these public funds, it is very important that we know how to plan them effectively, implement them, monitor, evaluate them and that, finally, we can also say that we have done something for Slovenian agriculture and that we have done something for food security in Slovenia, not that, as already mentioned by Mr Sušnik, the Agricultural Institute has prepared a real report for 2005/2006, but it is also very clear from this report that food security in Slovenia is very poor. The difference between imports and exports is drastic. We are importing more €1.3 billion than we are exporting - it means that we are becoming dependent on foreign food producers. But obviously that's not the kind of information you say it doesn't have to be written into a national programme very clearly. I'm sorry, this has been a very clear warning to us that the national programme must provide an answer to this issue. Why is such a situation why, despite these strong assets we invest in agriculture, our food security in Slovenia is declining? Why are we still empty in the countryside? Why is the age structure of farms not improving? These are issues that are very topical, and today the Government should have when it submits a proposal for a national programme on agriculture at the table and today we should discuss that the next meeting of the Committee on Agriculture will be devoted to the adoption of the National Programme for Agricultural and Rural Development, not to record that we do not know when we will adopt it at all. And let me say one more thing. In this amendment, we are also not setting an exact deadline, precisely because I would like you to define yourself - both by the coalition and by the government - and we are trying to reach an agreement in Parliament if the Government has already failed to agree within its departments or whether the Government as a whole, when the document for the National Programme for Agricultural and Rural Development will be submitted. Let's make a deal here. What's the problem? Can we not determine the financial resources? Don't we know them? Is it a problem that we do not have people who are prepared to sit down and produce an effective programme? Or I do not know what is missing in Slovenia so that we can also implement the agricultural law. And I will read once again that article that really directly relates to the implementation of this agricultural law. This is a regional development area that is directly linked to when the national programme will be adopted. If the National Programme for the Development of Agriculture and Rural Development is not adopted, a regional programme cannot be implemented. And there are many shortcomings, and unfortunately we have not been able to correct them with the amendment because the article is not open. Look what's actually going on. When, during what period did the National Assembly discuss the issue of agriculture, the report on the state of agriculture and forestry? I do not recall ever having a decision on the Committee on Agriculture to be taken by the National Assembly. It means that we do not really want to provide information about what is happening in agriculture in the National Assembly. We do not want to mediate to the public, and the government is also legally bound by the agricultural law. Article 13: "Report on the implementation of the national programme. At least once a year, the Government shall consider a report on the state of agriculture and food produced by the Ministry." But in Germany, it seems appropriate for them to consider this annually and to submit this report to the National Assembly. Well, the Slovenian government doesn't seem to care. It will consider the agricultural situation report on its own once a year, and this is where the procedure stops. Can I even conclude from this that these reports prepared by the Institute of Agriculture, including the Committee on Agriculture, will no longer address the situation report on agriculture, forestry and agro-food in the future? Can I conclude from this Article that this will be the case? The whole procedure will end at the government. Very unfair, very inappropriate and unfair, especially to Parliament, to all those who wish to contribute, at least in their capacity, to make a difference in this area, and not least to all those who accompany the meetings of the National Assembly. These are public. Are the meetings of the Government public when you consider the report on the state of agriculture? The public will not be aware of the actual situation, it will be informed of that conclusion, the subject, the part of the treatment you want to put in public. But the real picture will be completely blurry. And this 13th article is indeed one of those who is certainly one of the worst in this law and makes it impossible to have a constructive and good debate on what we want in Slovenia in the field of agriculture. And the fifth paragraph, which disturbs Mr Horvat, is one of those for which the Government should be particularly interested that it is included in the national programme, as it is then easier to deal with these reports, not only with the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u119	Thank you. As there is still an interest after the debate, I am opening an application for a debate on Article 9 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members to this Article. Mr. Zagorac, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u120	There is no reason for us in the Lip Group of Members not to support the amendment, as proposed by colleagues from SD. I also see no reason why someone who advocates Slovenian agriculture would not support such an amendment. For this is an amendment that I will say is more precisely and decisively responsible or should answer the questions that we have already asked in the presentation of the position. And if at any time, honourable representatives of the Government, it is now time for you to speak up and answer those questions that we have asked about agriculture by the individuals who have explained the views of the groups of Members. I think now is the time for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to say why there is no more precise definition, because the purpose of each law is to precisely determine, as far as possible, the individual segments. And the national programme is such a segment that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia introduces and defines in its act. Let me tell you, please, an explanation against this amendment, given that I have read that the government does not support it, why you resist. Why isn't such an amendment necessary? In my opinion, the adoption of this amendment would give very short answers to all questions about agriculture - where Slovenian agriculture goes, what its perspective is, or is the perspective of Slovenian agriculture in the European Union at all, if not, let us make this clear to people so that they can behave properly so that they can prepare themselves properly for some new facts. How much money is needed if we accept this amendment, which very precisely sets out - I am looking at a basic article that says, "The National Programme should include an assessment of the expected funds." What does "expected" mean? I would like to know if this government will remain in power and if someone proposes, I do not know if the expected funds are such and such, but in the budget they will prepare an amendment which will provide the resources to be directed by a national agricultural development programme in the Republic of Slovenia. All of these are things, I think, which should be recorded in the national agricultural development programme, and nothing harms if we support the amendment of colleagues from the SD, because only more precisely will we commit the Government to follow the public interest and the interests of agriculture. And it's the same if he's already representing this industry. But if you feel that, at some point, agriculture in Slovenia is not necessary or has no perspective, then please give it to people honestly, so that they can adapt to this, so that they can move to other sectors. Because according to information coming from the European Union, in Slovenia there is some terrible or very large perspective in the area of agriculture. Then say it, not we'll drive the thirsty across the water. And the moment will come when someone will say that we, her, are too small or our farms are uncompetitive and we cannot play any important role in the field of agriculture in the European Union. I would simply expect this programme, but as outlined in Article 9, as prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, it was also noted what will be the incentives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to develop agriculture in our country. But you have managed to avoid it in this article, very skillfully. You probably see a little further than a Slovenian farmer, but not to deceive him. In the Lipa Group we will be happy to support such an amendment. It seems very correct to us, very precise and every law is intended for people and more precisely than we define it, it will be easier to read, use and less questions; and this is also the purpose of the National Assembly to adopt such laws, which are precise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out that there is absolutely no reason to adopt this amendment to Article 9. It is perfectly sufficient for the basic text of marriage and everything we hear today can be well-intentioned, but at least I can say it too late. The law has been given a regular procedure, none of you, dear colleagues, who are now full of words about good intentions in agriculture and who know everything, have seen in this proposal any need to supplement it in order to correct it in order to put it into public debate. You missed the first deadline with a request for a public debate; you did not table any amendments within the time limit for the submission of amendments to the second reading. Today, when it is accepted and you finally have two amendments, everything is wrong in this agriculture. We do not claim in the coalition that everything is in the best order and happy birthdays, because it is simply not possible to fix and fix everything overnight, nor have I claimed what was obvious to me that they are flowing between milk and milk. However, the fact is undeniable and this is what the Agricultural Institute has found to be the first improvement in 2005; or else that negative trends have been introduced to them in the past period, and this is a achievement. The achievement is also that this coalition has adopted the agricultural policy of the payment scheme and that, also with the rural development programme, which has been adopted and which has been approved, we have put in place conditions, known farming conditions for a seven-year period. And if someone claims that there are no plans and programmes, he probably does not know the adopted agricultural policy frameworks. He probably does not know the adopted agricultural policy frameworks. However, in order for this adopted agricultural policy to be implemented so that the rural development programme and all that is involved can be implemented, it is necessary to amend this law, which is before us today, with the aim in particular of removing administrative obstacles and simplifications that are necessary to facilitate our farmer's acquisition of state aid without which the development of agriculture in the future is unlikely to be represented. I'd like to warn you that nothing happened overnight. That our country has grown to an additional 500 thousand hectares in the last 130 years, these are facts, and that we are trying to stop and reverse this process of growing and abandoning agriculture. According to the Agricultural Institute, this has already happened in 2005 and 2006. I would also like to refer to concerns and indications regarding the possibility of slaughter, the processing of meat and milk on the farm. Look, there's been an insufferable situation here, too. This adoption of the Regulation in 2006 in June and November - practically not regulated or given the possibility of processing food of animal origin on farm. There was practically no way. We have faced such ingenuity, only in the case of a veterinary certificate in internal traffic, which has been particularly unique in our area, in the middle in which our agriculture operates. Things have not been done since yesterday, but it is true that the need to regulate these matters is evident and that this need is reflected in the changes to the law that we are now adopting. Once again, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are pleased that such a great consensus has been reached on the content of the agricultural law. It's a big consensus. Once again, I stress the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, the Farmers' Union, the other social or other civil associations in the field of agriculture have supported this law and had no comments on this law. Nor was he involved in mentioning valuable comments by the opposition, which is indisputable and which cannot be denied. Finally, this is demonstrated by the scope of the comments and amendments tabled. May I remind you that today we have considered a proposal in the framework of the National Assembly for a marriage on which 130 amendments have been tabled for the second reading. I'm afraid that doesn't mean that you don't pay the necessary attention to the opposition in the area of agriculture, but that there's probably some disharmony in the eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u123	Thank you. Mrs. Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, all supporters of this amendment of the SD to Article 9 of the opposition, after all, admit that if this amendment is adopted, the law will not be any better. Nothing harms if it is accepted, nothing will be worse, only more precisely regulates what should be written in the national programme. I would like to say that this is not a programme or a law on a national agricultural programme, but it is an agricultural law, and that the 9th article, which speaks of a national programme, is just an article that we think is properly regulated in New Slovenia. We have a national programme or in New Slovenia we have been following the national programme since it was written in the time of Minister Osterc that Slovenian agriculture is multi-purpose, eco-social, based on sustainable farming to support family farms, complementary activities. And all of these are also summed up by this law that we are considering today. I must also address misleading claims, and when will we consider the report on the agricultural situation in the National Assembly. At the last meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, we discussed the report on the state of agriculture prepared by the Government and experts from the Agricultural Institute. And there was no proposal on the part of the opposition to consider this report at a meeting of the National Assembly. We also discussed the 2007 agricultural situation report in the framework of the Agricultural Institute meeting, as well as the agricultural ecological indicators, including pesticide pollution and other agricultural pollutants. There is improvement everywhere in this area. We do not claim that everything is truly good, even as a result of which we adopt and amend laws and improve them, with the aim of making the agricultural situation even better. And this law also regulates certain things that have proved to be bad in the past. Let me just say that, in 2004, 2005, out of the 70,000 applications for subsidies, some 40,000 were rejected, because they were not well completed or they did not have all the data - just like that. To make this happen today, what an alarm it would be! Today, these mistakes are significantly smaller, and I think it is improving in this area as well. We will not support this amendment because we believe that the law is already fundamentally well regulated and that everything you are talking about today will then be regulated by the national agricultural development programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u125	As I see further interest after the debate, I am opening a re-appeal for the debate on Article 9 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Juban, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The debate is on the amendment to Article 9 tabled by the SD fellow Members, and despite one very quick debate and opposition to this amendment, I see no reason why it should not be adopted. I agree with perhaps so many opponents of this amendment that nothing big will happen, even if it is not accepted, but I do not understand why so many objections, or because of the usual practice, that nothing should be accepted from the opposition - even if anything was a little better resolved - or if there are some third reasons that we often find difficult to understand. I am reporting for this - not that I would change anything, but that some things in the debate we are doing a little bit. At first, we had an adopted strategy for the development of agriculture with Dr. Osterec. Here, Mr Senegačnik could teach us the alphabets around this strategy, which set the goals that should be the basis in Slovenian agriculture, and the colleague Uhanova may have summed things up in graves, but they are not entirely accurate. This is so time-consuming that much has changed in this strategy and very little remains of these basic objectives. One of these stories is a family farm, which has almost nothing left. In fact, this objective has changed so much that today the conditions of farming in Europe are so severe and close and competitive that today or yesterday we have problems in the field of meat marketing, so many problems that we are no longer competitive in Slovenia, the family farm loses the meaning that Dr. Osterec had at the time. And also this article, which talks about the national programme, may have to change so much over time and follow some trends that we are also having a hard time predicting today that it may not matter what we accept in this Article 9. But I stopped by about something else. We discussed at the last meeting of the Committee, when we had such a topic, including the 2006 agricultural situation, by having discussed the situation a little while ago and two months ago at the Agricultural Institute in 2007. And that is why we said on the committee that the complete nonsense of dealing with the situation 2006 - is on the committee, and above all in the National Assembly there is no point because we already had information about the year later. One year later, however, the situation is not exactly what it is today. It is true, however, that around the month of August, due to the abnormal increase in prices of cereals in the world, not only in Europe, but in Slovenia, the market price was already so high and that the state of agriculture in Slovenia also rose to a level when we could say that the situation is stable. Here, Comrade Sušnik has also adjusted his position since the last board meeting, when he said he was extremely good, but today he said he was stable, and here we agree. If you were with me on one round table yesterday, which dealt with this kind of problem, you would hear that the current situation is completely different again. I agree with all of you who will convince me that this picture in agriculture in short periods of time can be completely different, depending on the market situation, as we had last year in cereals and now we have meat. And that makes it difficult to show on the one hand that things are bad or that they are bad. The situation in agriculture will never be bad for any government. And even in this government, nowhere has it changed so badly that they say, but now the situation is fantastic and we can go to bed. Each government will have problems with agriculture, past and present. With regard to agriculture, they have always been very similar to each other, without or to the government, and so on. In short, in Article 9, I see no serious reason why we should oppose. Perhaps we should take a closer look and find that he may be a little better and show support in spite of everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac is calling off the application. Does anyone else want to discuss this article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We move on to the 122nd paragraph, where we have three amendments. I'm opening a debate. The application for a debate on Article 122 and the amendments to this Article shall be pending. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u128	Thank you. The law introduces a new public service to maintain hydromeliorative systems, but unfortunately from the interpretation of the law we can understand the historical course of management of hydromeliorative systems and that it was in fact a key institution that operated with these devices or the intervention of the Union of Water Communities of Slovenia a few years ago. Following the breakup of the Water Communities of Slovenia, new moments have arisen, water has been managed in part by a number of concessionaires and Slovenia has been divided into water management areas. However, what I want to point out today seems very important to me, and there is a lack of this presentation why the new public service in agriculture is missing. I would like to point out that this new public service, too, cannot operate independently within a natural system, especially beyond the Ministry of Environment and Space. So management, if we look by definition under the Water Act, the water economy is water management, which means it includes both management and asset management. I have a feeling that the Agriculture Act is not well aligned with the Water Act and that the Ministry of the Environment has probably not done that role, in my opinion, which should have been coordinated if coordination has even occurred to agree between us whether we really consider the construction of water retentionists and irrigation systems to be among the most important objectives of agricultural policy in Slovenia. If this were to be recorded in the explanation of the Agriculture Law, I would understand that we also need a new public service. But I don't see it in my marriage. It is written that in Slovenia 95,000 hectares of agricultural area are such that hydromeliorative systems are tanned and the interpretation stops there. However, I think that climate change and everything that is happening in our environment is very coherent in this area. And I think it would be very useful to think about establishing a water management association covering both the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture, a whole spectrum of this problem, because, as such, this public service will not have the necessary effects because it will be dedicated to itself. We therefore propose to delete this indent until this solution is agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u129	Thank you. Mrs. Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u130	Thank you very much. So, with Article 22, we have three amendments, we will support the first one, and the second one is out of the question for us. We have also tabled an amendment under number 3 in Novi Slovenije, namely, this article refers to the establishment of public services in the field of agriculture under this law, which are, inter alia, a public service for the management and maintenance of hydromeliorative systems. However, we have added a new paragraph to this that the programme of regular operation and maintenance of hydromeliorative systems may be carried out by landowners themselves within the melioration community, subject to the mandate of the public service provider in the field of management and maintenance of hydromeliorative systems, and by the Minister for Further Conditions. We believe that we must finally give farmers, land owners, the opportunity and the opportunity to do certain work on their lands or on their neighbors. It is said that all of this is already possible, and I am interested in how much of this possibility has already been given or how much is actually being done in practice. If we accept this amendment, in Novi Slovenija we believe that we will also give the law an opportunity for farmers to have an opportunity through such works to earn more on farms, especially if it is their own land. There are many complaints that these works are in practice poorly carried out so that they are not carried out, but that they are obtained with the pads. In New Slovenia, we believe that farmers have adequate knowledge, interest and agricultural machinery so that, within the framework of the works they would receive from the concessionaire or from the machinery circle or as a complementary activity, they could perform these works. We also believe that farmers could be more efficient and, above all, cheaper, which should also be the objective of agricultural policy. And we recommend supporting this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u131	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah, I'm reopening the application. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u132	I would like to refer to the third amendment, which I believe is that, as the colleague presented it, there may be nothing wrong with it and that it is so possible. But I think we need the government's position, that maybe it's possible right now. But as it is written, we can understand it differently and wrongly. If we understand from this that it is possible for each part of its infrastructure facilities to be maintained, then it is wrong. And in a 300 hectare complex or 100 or 50 to cut down for growth, to mow grass, to repair the road by their parcels - one has many, one has nothing - then it is not possible, never and never will be possible. However, if it is meant to register an activity - or within some circles, communities, registered companies - then I think it is possible now and here might be a welcome help from the Government to define itself to this amendment, which may not be fundamentally wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. As colleague Uhanova has already said, in the first place we have proposed an amendment primarily for rationalisation of costs, this is when we talk about the third amendment, and we believe that farmers must be included because they are willing to participate in these tasks. I am sure that this has so far not been possible under the current legislation. It was not possible unless it was done through legislation. And it would be good for us to give this opportunity to farmers. The last sentence, however, discusses what my colleague was discussing before me, that it is probably not all written down here - what should then be defined in more detail in the act or in these conditions by the Minister. This is our proposal and we think it would be good for such an amendment to be adopted, thereby supplementing the law and giving the opportunity to farmers with different mechanisms - we also all agree that they are also able to do a lot of things, especially with regard to the maintenance of certain infrastructures, certain complexes, and it would be good to give them the opportunity to do less for less costs, less money use, and to carry out these operations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I support the spirit of the amendment in every way possible. The case could also be further elaborated so that farmers, if already required by concessionaires, may be designated by subcontractors in accordance with all of them. And just as we have adopted a good solution to the Forest Law, because certain forest funds in the high mountains are being cared for by farmers, so should this practice be extended to forest roads, because I am sure that farmers would be good forest roadkeepers, especially budget-efficient ones; or in other words, they would fix more meters than those we choose today on the pre-priority tenders. Thank you very much. I'll support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u137	Thank you. Does anyone else want to discuss this article and the amendments? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 186 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to this Article. I'm opening the application. It has not been reported, so I am concluding the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 18th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Passport Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Mr Zvonko Zinraj, Secretary of State, has just joined us and we give him the floor to further explain the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on travel documents brings some new developments, which it manages in a similar way as we proposed in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on ID card. It thus removes the cancellation of the travel document in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia and provides the basis for the establishment of a publicly accessible part of the record of missing, stolen or lost travel documents on the E-Government Single National Portal. It is about removing administrative obstacles in this area, as the citizen will save 8.35 euros as it now costs to cancel. It will also save time to issue a new travel document if, of course, the individual chooses to do so. The draft law also includes a provision on the prohibition of copying a travel document to the controllers of personal data databases and, of course, on exceptions where copying is permitted, and provisions on the return of postal documents to children. The applicant considers it necessary and appropriate that the said institutes in the field of travel documents be regulated in the same way as in the case of the ID Card Act, as I have already mentioned, since these are essentially two identification and travel documents issued in the same manner. The proposer therefore proposes to the National Assembly that this proposal be adopted by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u139	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. You've received the committee's report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Majda Zupan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respected and respected! The new law on travel documents, which was adopted in 2000, introduces less difficult amendments and additions this time, and therefore it makes sense to deal with the reduced procedure. The novelty's proposal was led by an effort to regulate the issuance of travel documents, which will be more favourable to citizens in terms of abandonment of certain actions, reduction of costs, saved time and, on the other hand, greater protection against abuse. The amendment of the law brings a number of solutions that will make business with the administrative authorities easier for the parties. The first solution is certainly to facilitate the procedure in the event of a loss, error or theft of a passport. So far, 8.35 euros have to be paid for cancellation in the Official Journal. However, it took a long time for the cancellation to actually be published and it was not possible to issue a new passport until publication. The notice of loss, disappearance or theft after the amendment of the law would be made by the administrative unit or diplomatic-consular office, where they would also record data in a publicly accessible record of missing, lost or stolen travel documents. The new law also regulates clearer provisions on copying a travel document that can only be copied for business purposes by notaries, banks, savings banks, issuers of credit cards and other financial institutions under the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The copy will be prohibited in electronic form for the purpose of a security measure against potential abuses. The amendments also remove administrative obstacles in the area of the service of travel documents to children where, in practice, considerable difficulties have been shown in the transmission of the consignment by mail and in the delivery of the child's legal representative. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the novel because we believe that it comes to citizens and citizens with solutions that will in some way make everyday life easier, as they mean a stone in the mosaic of removing administrative barriers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Dear President, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the purpose of the law that regulations issue travel documents in a more friendly and easy way for a citizen, as he will no longer have to be revoked in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia after a new lost, stolen or missing travel document. The removal of administrative barriers is also intended for more detailed arrangements for the service of travel documents issued to children. They will also be able to serve the legitimate agent after the new one. As it is known, the Member States of the European Union do not regulate in their regulations the provisions on the copying of passports, so we accept with a few fears the possibility of copying a travel document in special cases. We believe there may be some abuse. We therefore stress the need for specific supervision over the implementation of Article 4a of the amendments. We support the establishment of publicly available information on stolen or missing documents or lost travel documents on the websites of the Ministry of Public Administration, without the publication of protected personal data on the holder of such travel document. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendments to the Passport Act, noting that sufficient and effective control is needed to ensure that there is no abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the views of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Retired. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This presentation of the position on the Travel Charter Act is more or less a routine awareness, but it should be said that the DeSUS Group will also accept the amendment and supplementation, confirmed, as our conduct was similar yesterday when we voted on the ID card. It is two related laws, both in the sense that, in meeting our needs, our interests, our goals, they try to make this novel easier for us as citizens, to make it easier for us to access individual services or to reduce the administrative burdens that have been imposed on us so far. Both documents, both yesterday's ID card and today's passport, are essentially non-binding identification documents, welcome. However, for a wide range of achievement of the objective, they are mandatory conditions. And as this mandatory condition should be as accessible as possible for citizens and citizens, we should be doing as little and as little cost as possible. This is the basic purpose, so we understand, of this law and this basic purpose in its implementation we also support. Amendments or amendments and additions have also been made to certain comments or opinions, opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, which have been taken into account and are so much more acceptable in this regard. But what matters most to us is what people will feel as a result. The lifting of the mandatory cancellation is certainly a welcome novelty. And that it could only be announced through the administrative unit or through diplomatic consular services, too. Public records that will be established do not see us as a threat or as an attempt to have everything under review. The fact that, in certain cases, these documents can be copied, and we also think, I would say that there is no such interference with privacy and that there is no danger of abuse as it sometimes seems. But we know that we ourselves are not overly sensitive when we have to look out for our documents. This is a collection of data that we were able to talk about yesterday when we found that more than tens of thousands of lost or stolen either personal ID cards or documents that provide us with health insurance services. Some other reliefs are also welcome. The only thing we would think worth recalling is that we are Slovenians here in some way, not the ones with red ruts, but the pioneers in this sense, through what the European Union has imposed on us, and we will see whether it is good or not. We do not say in advance whether it is right or wrong or whether the consequences will be positive or not - we hope for the best, but we should mention that it is not a cancellation, not an extradition to minors, that Europe does not regulate and that the fabric manufacturer has written that a comparative legal review is not actually possible, because it is not possible to do so in the way that we do not exist. Since we are counting on less administrative barriers, faster procedures, less procedures for citizens and less costs, the DeSUS Group will support the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the travel documents law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Your Honor, the Secretary of State! The Basic Law on travel documents was adopted in 2000 and supplemented in 2005. The 2005 news was needed to remove bureaucratic barriers. One such was the abolition of local authority to issue a travel document, which meant that a party, a full-year resident of the Republic of Slovenia, could apply for a travel document anywhere in Slovenia and get it there. However, this amendment to the law, which is under consideration, is the continuation of the removal of bureaucratic barriers in 2005. It is the removal of obstacles to possible loss, theft, loss announcement or theft and the acquisition of a new charter. The arrangements are supposed to be similar to those of the ID card. At the time of the loss or theft of the travel document, the citizen will be obliged to announce the loss or theft to the diplomatic/consular representation or administrative unit, but there will no longer be a need for cancellation in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. In this way two will be achieved, so there will be no cost of cancellation and the procedure will be cut short because it will not be necessary to wait for the publication of the cancellation, but it will be possible to apply for a new travel document immediately upon the announcement of the loss. This constitutes the basis for the establishment of a publicly accessible record of stolen, missing or lost travel documents on the Ministry of Public Administration's e-portal. In this record, however, there will be no data on the former holder of the travel document, but only information on the document itself. With the same aim of removing administrative barriers, a new content of the arrangements for the service of travel documents intended for children is intended. A new charter for a citizen under the age of 15 may be served by a legal representative who has applied for its issue. The Charter will also be given to the Ombudsman if it exists, which is governed by another law. The amendment of the law also provides for a more detailed copy of the travel document due to different interpretations concerning the rights to the protection of personal data. The travel documents will be copied by notaries, banks, savings banks, credit card issuers and institutions under the supervision of the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency and insurance supervision, as well as in cases where a copy of the citizen proves citizenship. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will also support the amendment of the travel documents law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u147	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present his position [[....]] [[He's quitting.]] I hereby conclude the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, which is in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We're moving on to the session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please calm down, check the voting device. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Penal Code, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We first decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 86. This is the first amendment to this article. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. Please be a little more careful, because there are certainly enough Members in the Chamber, and the device has shown inconclusiveness. We are moving on to another vote. We're voting. The vote on the amendment is ongoing. Immortality again. I'm adjourning the session, and we'll continue at 2.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We continue with the end of the 9th item of the agenda, namely, we are in the stage of voting on the first amendment to Article 86. We are moving on to the third ballot. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move to a vote on the second amendment of Article 86 of the Lipa Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mrs Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm going to ask you again to support this amendment. The amendment actually specifies what is not stipulated in the law. That is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to introduce an alternative to the prison sentence into our Penal Code, a so-called generally beneficial work. However, in the same breath, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has forgotten to add instructions or to specify in more detail how the generally beneficial work will be carried out, which are those institutions within which generally useful work can be carried out, what is the control of those who are able to perform a generally beneficial work, and so on. In essence, I would like to point out that this is still the case for persons who are legally convicted of a crime. So this is not about people who work through public works, but about people who are on suspension of their sentences and who will serve their sentences instead of in prison with work that is generally useful, for the good, I don't know, individual local communities, humanitarian organisations, in short, citizens and citizens of our country. But the system, as proposed so far under the Penal Code, is not complete. What we are proposing in the Lipa Group is that the Minister, who introduced an alternative under the Penal Code to the suspension of prison sentences, prepare a sub-law, together with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Health and so on, including the Ministry of Education. However, the Ministry of Justice cannot simply say, no, this is not our area, which will be the focus of social work centres. Social work centres are not institutions that enforce criminal sanctions or watch over the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The Ministry of Justice should draw up a sub-legislative act setting out the implementation provided for in Article 86 of this Act, which provides for an alternative to the imprisonment of convicted persons. Let me just remind you, those who objected in the debate to a sub-legislative act prepared by the Ministry of State. Tomorrow we will decide to subsidise the student diet, a law that is entirely based on a non-legislative act.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u151	Thank you. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 39. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 108. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 109. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 110. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 111. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 143. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 168. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 224. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 224 becomes irrelevant. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Lipa Group to Article 171. An explanation for the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Mrs Žgajner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again, respected colleagues and colleagues. I must say that I am, and I am not surprised, at the double morality that we have actually been following by the government coalition for three years, throughout the term of office. When you say one thing, when you like it, you do the other, but when you do not agree that there is a matter proposed by the opposition Members through the parliamentary procedure. But this time I ask you, my fellow Members and colleagues, to support the amendment to Article 171, this is that article under the chapter on sexual inviolability. In view of the great mouth, you boasted in the broad mouth how modern the Penal Code is because it takes into account the ultimate human dignity. When you praised this, in your second breath you rejected the amendments proposed by the Lipa Group of Members, which are aimed at protecting victims of crimes against sexual inviolability or, in other words, that follow a more appropriate criminal policy, which is also comparable to the European Union. Although I must say that, despite the initial opposition, Minister Sturm has introduced in the proposal of the Penal Code, I will say, a good part of the amendment to the Penal Code, which I introduced into the parliamentary procedure in 2006. Although he objected at the time, today a good part of the content is included in this law. But when we talk about sexual inviolability, we are not ready to take a step forward, or in other words, the government is not ready to take a step forward. Even though we have listened to the proposaler's mother's work body, I will say that there is a high understanding of the need to introduce a stricter criminal policy for perpetrators of a crime against sexual inviolability, for rapists, and for those who, after all, have done so, in my opinion, commit one of the most repugnant crimes against the child. Once again, I ask you to be able to take so much responsibility to the whole society to support the amendment to Article 171. I'm sorry the rest of the articles are closed, but at least something better than nothing. I ask you to support this amendment, which raises the penalties at stake for the worst perpetrators of crimes against sexual inviolability.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u153	Thank you. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, with 10 votes against 35. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving to 173rd and we have two amendments. We will first vote on the amendment of the Lipa Group of Members to Article 173. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present for 11 to 34. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Mr. Zagorac, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. Dear President! Given that we have received support from the Committee on Internal Policy to all our amendments by representatives of the ruling coalition, we see that their word simply means nothing. Representatives of the government coalition are on the board to make time go faster, to say - we will do something about the victims of sexual violence, we will do something when it comes to pedophilia. Your proposal, which follows this, is disastrously worse than what we are proposing in the Lipa Group. And all I can say is you are still subject to double criteria - criteria: Let us accept only what we propose. Whether it's good or there's a better proposal. Simply because the opposition has proposed this or the Lipa Group, this simply means nothing to you. It's not about the welfare or the victims of sexual violence, not about the victims - the children who are victims of paedophilia, but you go, forgive the expression, for your ass, so you can say that your amendment was adopted. And if I can go on, I'll say, something's really limping at the Ministry of Justice. I hope you will not be able to accept the Penal Code with our absence. That is why I am predicting obstruction by the Lip Group of Ambassadors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u155	Thank you. I'm sorry you're leaving the hall, but this is your right. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 173. We vote, the vote is on. There are 48 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 186. We vote, the vote is on. There are 47 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 187. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 186. If the amendment to Article 186 were not adopted, this amendment would be irrelevant. That's what you call it. It's subjective because it's been adopted. We therefore vote on the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 187. We vote, the vote is on. There are 48 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 211. We vote, the vote is on. There are 48 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 224. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 231. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 238. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 240. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 246. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 280. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same applicants to Articles 281 and 282; if this amendment is not adopted, the amendments to Articles 281 and 282 become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 281. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 282. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 48 of whom voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And I am putting to the vote the amendments of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 314. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 48 of whom voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, you have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Robert Marolt.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the third consideration of the draft law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u157	Thank you. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. 49 Members and Members were present and 46 voted against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday, 24 April 2008, following a final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments adopted and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. And I ask the Vice President, Mr. Pechet, to take the lead.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u158	We continue with the 20th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyers, second treatment. This means deciding on the amendments tabled. In Article 12, we decide on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 3. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 25. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI and SLS to Article 48. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended the vote on the amendments and I am thus concluding the second reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 12, 25 and 48 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? Comrade Tank, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, I would like to inform you that we will table additional amendments to the open articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Comrade Tanko. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday by voting on the amendments mentioned above. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - the second is the proposal for an agricultural law, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We'll meet with five amendments. First, we turn to Article 9 and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 43. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Three amendments have been tabled in connection with Article 122. We will first decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI and SLS. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 59 votes against 5. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SD Group to Article 122. However, I remind you that if the amendment is adopted, the amendment becomes irrelevant under order number 3. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 42. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Nova Slovenije Group to the same 122nd Article. I'm sorry. On behalf of the delegation? Anyone else? I'm sorry. I'm opening the application procedure. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Nova Slovenije Group. Emissary Marjetka Uhan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u161	Thank you so much for saying that. In Novi Slovenija we have tabled an amendment to Article 122, which we believe would also allow farmers, landowners, to maintain a hydromeliorative system within the framework of concessionary powers. It is right to give them this law, and with this amendment I also give them this opportunity. We believe that we could do it cheaper and more effectively than we have done before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u162	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SNS Group, Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We will vote against this amendment. In fact, this amendment allows for misuse in the field of hydromeliorative works, because there are several cases where this possibility has been misused and in fact the disposal of various waste materials has been carried out at the expense of hydromelioration. This happened in Šmar, where we expected Minister Podobnik to react and ban this operation, but this continues by allowing the application to a maximum height of about one metre, now reaching a height of seven meters. It's an abuse of this institute, and I think this amendment allows for even greater abuse. That is why we will vote against it in our Group of Members, and you will vote against it, as it already is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u164	Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 43. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the two amendments to Article 186. We will first decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, and SLS to Article 186. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And we decide on the second amendment of the same parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI and SLS by 186. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that. On the basis of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose that the National Assembly conduct a third hearing at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a dozen articles were adopted in the second reading, we will decide on that proposal for a decision. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] The National Assembly will carry out its third reading of the bill on Thursday, 24 April, following the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 18th paragraph of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Travel Documents Act. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. However, we continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Restrictions and Prohibitions for Public Service Operators, within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. Article 5 is amended by the Zares Group. We're voting. There are 66 Members present and 15 votes against 47. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the same parliamentary group to Article 22. However, I warn you that if this amendment is not adopted, the amendment will become irrelevant to Articles 24 and 25. We're voting. There are 67 Members and n Members present, 24 votes against 41. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This means that they have also become irrelevant amendments to Articles 24 and 25. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. So the amendments at second reading were not accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendments to the amended draft law were not adopted in the second reading, the amendments in the third reading cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the next draft law. Before I give it procedurally, let me just let you know that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Procedurally, my fellow Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I will say "Kosovo Trauma" has been dragging in this government since the very beginning of Mr Janez Janša's term of office. The fact that a neutral body controlling corruption in that country is seeking to be abolished, given that this government has decided to fight against it, is very volatile. During the three years of my mission to this Parliament, I have also seen various ways in which this government has tried to regulate it, even by finding three unstable Members to propose something like this. But no matter what, the law before us is a law that goes on account of this government alone and corruption of this government. Finally, the Bank of Slovenia points out that the law is contrary to the directives of the European Union and such a law cannot be supported or co-operated with it. How much you put on an independent body when it comes to corruption has also been seen in the last-discovered case of corruption in Paloma, when the finance minister simply said, "This is none of my business, I will not deal with it." The Minister of Economy said, "Oh, my God, there's been corruption. He's not the first in our government, not the last. It's written by Kos." And people are suffering, and that's the tragedy. And the Court of Auditors, which you do not acknowledge to him because it has already issued another decision on the infringements of this government, to which the President of the Government has simply whistled, should be this neutral body of yours. But you're a big fan of everything when it comes to corruption in your kind. Now I've said three cases where corruption has been detected. Paloma's the last. I believe that you all remember her, from the opposition, especially the Lipa Group, we have been alerting her for quite some time. She even threw a smile at your face when we talked about how much workers deserve and how to "accept" some means, even for a party's pre-election campaign. We will not participate in such nonsense on your part in the Lip Group. Thank you. That's why we're predicting obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I've seen some suggestions for explanations of vote. I am opening the procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Comrade Miran Potč on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We firmly believe that the National Assembly will make a big mistake through the ruling coalition or most of it if it adopts the law that is now on the agenda. This will confirm and prove that this ruling coalition and the Government, which is the proponent, is not for an organised fight against corruption. I think it's a bad, unacceptable decision. It is not possible to prove that the State does not need an independent and independent anti-corruption commission. Corruption, I do not claim to be great in Slovenia, but I say that it is as dangerous for the functioning of the Slovenian country as anywhere else where preventive anti-corruption activities take place. If that were not true, then there would not be a United Nations Convention on the fight against corruption, which we have ratified in this House after great suffering, and we have a direct obligation to set up an independent and independent anti-corruption commission as provided for in this Convention. This can't be the government or the government commission. However, they can and may be a commission that has general anti-corruption tasks, which is composed of a term called the National Assembly, and is proposed by the President of the State, the Government, the Court of Auditors, the Council of Justice and also the Commission of Mandate and Elections, which is, in short, widely responsible to all the factors concerned with the rule of law and the fight against corruption. This does not mean that we are not in favour of strengthening the functioning of existing repressive authorities: the police, the prosecutions, the judiciary, but we believe that the anti-corruption commission can act - but that it has confidence among people, has also demonstrated through the latest report and the survey that has been carried out to this end - to help us fight corruption in our country. I am therefore counting on the fact that the ruling coalition of this law will not support itself and that there will also be enough Members and Members who will be aware of the importance of the fight against corruption and vote against the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Comrade Franz Žnidaršič, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The DeSUS Group and the DeSUS party joined this government coalition in order to lead the country together, because this four-party association had a mandate in the elections to the National Assembly. We have warned the President of the Government very early that we do not want to cooperate with the way we lead the country in the sense that we can do whatever we want, but that we must do what is right. And given that the strongest party won the elections also because of a few years of talking about the corruption of the former power and customerism and so on, today it is catastrophic to see a law going in the opposite direction, namely, in the opposite direction of the fight against corruption and in the opposite direction of what the strongest party to the President was talking about in front of the last state-level elections. In this sense and in this spirit, this law is totally unacceptable to us, bad, and actually is a mockery of the matter itself. And that, of course, is why we can't support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u172	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We will, of course, vote against the law. However, it must be said that as far as corruption is concerned, I hope that something will be explored in the area of corruption, including in some gentlemen who paid their debts overnight for the house but did not previously have money in their pocket. After all, the Slovenian National Party also launched the biggest debate on corruption in Slovenia, the issue of navigation, the General Navigation, which they sold to the Germans in a very strange way. Nothing. The Commission has done nothing, and I hope something different is going to happen now. Perhaps it would make sense to remind them of some gentlemen who had been somewhere else before, and then the aggregate situation in their heads does not allow them to recall anything. I would only remind them of the vote of 10. 2. In 2006, at the 13th regular session, at 15 hours 3 minutes and 18 seconds, when those three who were supposed to have seen someone from the coalition come to our office and put on the table a draft law to be drafted by the coalition, these three members of this important National Assembly voted in favour of the law. I don't know, it was a full vote for the law, but now I don't know if it's a misdirection, whether it's a lack of understanding, whether it's a lack of justice and a sense of justice, or whether it's just a possible pathological state of cortex in some heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u174	Thank you. We have completed the presentations on behalf of the groups of Members. Anyone in their own name? I'm opening the procedure. Here you go, please. The word is from a colleague of Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. Yesterday, the opposition, with the amendment, wanted to extend the Commission's life span, and in this amendment itself, in explanation of the figures, proved that the fight against corruption during this period was not effective. And whoever prolongs the life span of something that he has proved by his own numbers that is not effective is obviously interested in being as much corruption as possible. And if we add to this the fact that those who are in the previous mandate, within the LDS and SD government, themselves have committed themselves to economic crime and many others with drastic cuts in time when individual crimes cannot be prosecuted anymore, then the picture is perfectly clear. It's mostly a bit of a ruse. It must be said, however, that when we choose to either put things on new foundations or insist on something for which the opposition is also, even with numbers itself has proved that it is not effective, it will be necessary to cut through different solutions, to see what options are available and, of course, to direct the fight against corruption in such a way that it will be particularly effective. That's why, of course, I'm going to support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u177	Honourable Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The history of the adoption of the 'anticos laws' in this House is exactly four years. It began with the anti-corruption commission showing that after two months of operation, nothing had been done for four years. In fact, they tried to convince Slovenians and Slovenes how this commission has been for centuries and how it does nothing. Of course, that lie even caught on a little bit. Even today, we have heard several times how corruption and corruption depend on whether or not the Commission exists. And even the fact that it's too dimensional. More than work, there's corruption, so we don't need it. That's the conclusion. In the meantime, another law has been passed, which has established a parliamentary anti-corruption commission, which has been frozen all these years and any other attempt has been made, or every time, even in the reports of this commission, we have listened, of course, to how this commission is actually responsible for the fact that corruption is. At the same time, it was not taken into account that this commission is essentially intended for anti-corruption work, it is said, to prevent corruption, but not what has already been done, which has already occurred, which has already gone from hand to hand, from pocket to pocket. Of course, this has always been blamed on the Commission for preventing corruption. Even these attempts now, which would like to dissipate anti-corruption work to various institutions, are part of the same set, so it is clear that this [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u178	But to the word I invite the messenger Bredo Pecan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u179	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Of course, I will not be able to support such a law because the application of what started two years ago and thus actually cut down the legs of any anti-corruption activity, especially because this law, which we are considering today, has moved the activity only and only to the functional part of potential corruption. I submit that the Anti-Corruption Act is a genuine preventive law, that repression and the use of curative practices must be passed on to bodies that have been set up for decades and centuries, and that I see no reason to replace them with anything else. It is said that the area of public servants, the area of people whose integrity has been strongly affected, especially in the last few years when the level of corruption and clientelistic behaviour has in fact been transferred to the level of government officials and some others. So, I think that this law actually opens the door so that indirect officials can achieve the same effect through performers as if they had an open door forever. I believe that the dispersion of powers to control the potential corrupt behaviour of officials to 200 and a few bodies cannot be said otherwise than the deliberate confusion of responsibility and the deliberate prevention of the persecution of corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u181	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Such a law cannot be supported. Seems like a lot of people in the coalition have a lot of memories. Apparently, many of you have forgotten how, four years ago, the then leader of the opposition in this Chamber at an extraordinary meeting devoted to the fight against corruption illustrated the unsustainable situation of corruption in Slovenia with WD-40. Well, apparently some today would need this WD-40, because it's known to help against rust. But what are we doing today? Today we are expected to adopt a law that has dissipated the responsibility to control corruption to all sorts of different authorities, from local to regional to national. He assigned to the Court of Auditors a role which he does not have under our constitutional order and, of course, cancels the so-called Kosovo Commission. Last week, the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, there is Mr Drago Kos, President of the GRECO Group, and it is, I have to tell you once again, very much appreciated there, and many Members who operate in this group have asked what is going on in Slovenia that the Commission, which was considered to be an example in many of the arrangements across Europe, is now being abolished by this government. Of course, I can't answer that question. However, it seems that this government has only done one and the same in the fight against corruption these four years, and this is, trying to find a way to eliminate the "Kosovo Commission" and how to get rid of it. Why? Because at the end of the term of office it will also be necessary to keep accounts, and it would be the "Kosovo Commission" who would also issue these accounts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u183	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. In view of the fact that you have been repeating as parrots for more than three years that the Anti-Corruption Commission is unnecessary because it is supposed to be a toothless tiger, despite the fact that you have supported all three years, especially the SDS Members, of all the reports of this same commission, it is necessary to say that this law, which we have today, is, with numerous authorities at all levels, like a swarm of bees without a stick, which will only occasionally touch someone. That is why I do not support this political depravity and will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u185	Dear Mr. Vice President! I speak on behalf of myself and also on behalf of the Group of Members. We won't support the law. Otherwise, it was in this marriage, not only yesterday, but also before and throughout the entire term, so to speak. The ruling party in particular, I will not say coalition because one I object to, the ruling party in particular, is hampered by the political profile of the President of the Commission for the prevention of corruption, which they made very clear yesterday. They therefore believe that it is necessary to remove both him and this Commission as a whole. They do not wonder what will happen instead and what other forms of fight against corruption will be put in place and also work. We have tabled amendments with which we wanted to maintain or resolve in some way yesterday at least what to get rid of, of course, the Commission by a certain deadline, but this has also been rejected. Rejected by the ridiculous argument that we are wrong about the argument. As we say, because sensitivity has increased, that is, sensitivity to corruption in Slovenia, as this has increased, this is also the result of the work of this "Kosovo Commission". While others prove this with some totalitarian arguments that less than sensitivity, we will be more successful in fighting corruption and more of an authoritarian state. That's what the ruling coalition says. Of course, this is why we will not support and we hope that this law will not be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Procedural? Ambassador Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me, on behalf of the Lip Group, to announce obstruction at this point of the agenda, but on the basis of the explanations of vote, including some coalition Members, for which I am immensely grateful, there is a little hope, after that political mathematics, that the law will still not receive adequate support. In other words, it is hoped that the government plans to abolish the Commission to prevent corruption will not be implemented. Therefore, at the moment, on behalf of the Lipa Group, I am cancelling the announced obstruction and therefore predicting that we will vote in the Lipa Group against the law tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the parliamentary procedure. Last but not least, dear colleagues and colleagues, yesterday the distinguished Mr Secretary of State did not use the word "political hygiene of officials" many times. The abolition of the commission, which has shown in many cases that corruption in the government ranks, i.e. among the highest officials, is also a long way from political hygiene when this commission is simultaneously abolished. Otherwise, hand to heart, you know, the old saying says, "Fish smells at the head." Therefore, as has already been said, in the Lipa Group of Members, we cancel the obstruction and predict that we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Copy that. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm reopening the application circuit. Please. Member Geza Juban has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Chairman. Not far back, they had one outstanding police action, where it was a business to be carried out by the state about 20 million. On the other hand, proceedings are under way against the gentleman, who suddenly raised his investment from 20 million to 70 million, and the business is taking place in Russia, and we have similar procedures in Slovenia because money is disappearing on the basis of corruption. We are all looking at an octopus that is developing in Slovenia, which is a typical reflection of corruption in Slovenia. We can list these stories. You listed a few of them, and some of them will be new, and of course the "Kosovo Commission" would be extremely disturbing for such events. True, it is too weak because without an authority of persecution, it is really powerless. But at least it tickles. Another possibility is that not the commission itself, that maybe a piece is disturbing someone. He used to be a criminal. What was he doing? He was investigating the arms trade. Maybe it's a story from here that someone doesn't digest and needs to be removed. I will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u190	Thank you very much. If you allow them to do business abroad, as you stated. One of the Members of Parliament will also be selling the medicine in Azerbaijan, and it is likely that his decision in relation to [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] But we're moving on. [[...]] Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u191	I will not support the law for a very simple reason. At the end of this year's term of office, we will present a report on the property situation at the end of the term of office. Just as we had to submit it at the beginning of the mandate. The form transmitted by the then established "Kosovo Commission" is a comprehensive form and comparison with the form at the end of the mandate and, at the beginning of the mandate, enables, when duly verified, potential corrupt exploitation. Disengagement of the anti-corruption commission. By adopting the law today, it will prevent anyone from looking at these forms in substance. That's what we're doing today. Because I believe that it is right for all officials, from the President of the Government to the Members, to submit a report to the municipal councilmen at the end of their mandates, to present a credible report, which is verifiable: if an independent anti-corruption committee is to have a look at the financial situation in Liechtenstein. I will go against the law, so that, of course, we will preserve in every way that an independent body will look at this data in one place. This is a preventive action against corruption and against clientism. Those of you who do not need to do this promote corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Member of the Council of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u193	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. As we say, we will not support it, nor will I support the law that is before us. This government, I would like to stress, has come into power with a fight against three K's: corruption, clientism and money theft. Today he wants to get away from all this, I'll say. Many of the three labs I mentioned earlier may or may not benefit from this fragility. Those who know how to stand on their feet, we did it very quickly despite the pressures of three labs or one lab or one max lab we decided for one of our own, I'll say the upright path. However, as far as house loans are concerned, first it is "fine", as the old Slovenian proverb says, to clean up before your threshold, then to deal with others. Horrible houses are located anywhere in Ljubljana, anywhere in Primorsk, with big things, and if one Member can settle them with cash, they are large revenues from the Member's salary. However, as far as the "Kosovo Commission" is concerned, I would like to point out once again; I simply cannot believe that now an authority such as the Court of Auditors will treat all your messes, even though you do not take it into account, as well as "adequately" them. Recent cases show that the Court of Auditors does not do this, does not do this corruption, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to point out once again that Paloma is the last such story in recent times where you have no hope of getting anything to save. Now you will terminate another independent commission and you will be able to steal along and on average and also share with some of your loose mates who have also helped bring the Penal Code through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u194	The word has magic. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u195	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and Members. In the previous term, we have dealt with the anti-corruption regime a lot, and then from one body, from the previous office, we have received the Commission to prevent corruption, not to say that it was under direct control, but also the anti-corruption resolution has announced a conflict with what, in fact, the current coalition has paved the way for people's will to gain confidence. How successful this coalition has been in preventing corruption is another issue. To lay the foundations, she missed out, but only for what piece of roof she still had until the end of this term, but in one she was consistent and tried consistently to remove the commission she said was a toothless tiger. If it is a toothless tiger, why does it create such a way of dealing with corruption, which will not be transparent and will be even less fishy than it is so far due to a number of divergent obligations. It has always been said that if you want to do something ineffective, then you have to dissipate the responsibility. I do not consider this coalition to be consistent in the implementation of the prediction that it will defend transparency, clarity and I do not know what else. What he's doing now certainly doesn't guarantee that. And if the prosecution and the police were such a very effective institution that they could deal with corruption and other aspects, then they wouldn't be dealing with "clean shovels" and anything else. Of course I will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Member Dimitriy Kovačič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I will support the law because it follows the instructions of the Constitutional Court, and this law is based on the content of what the Constitutional Court has written down that it is necessary to do. The opposition opposes the adoption of this law, and it is interesting that this same opposition has proposed an amendment and if this amendment were adopted, logically, it would support the law. But what did she want with this amendment? That the marriage would not have been established for a long time. But then why did you even table an amendment if you wanted the marriage that you would have adopted not to start before April 2010? However, as regards the opinion that the Commission currently working in this area is a foreign model, I would very much like to hear a single case of corruption that this Commission has identified, a single case. Is it because of this pattern, or do you want this commission to continue its work indefinitely? Just because she hasn't figured out a single case yet. It is true, however, that the Supreme Court of Justice has found that the President of the current commission has gravely violated human rights and acted unlawfully while listening to the interviews of journalist Ranc. This has been legally established. Thank you. There is, of course, no reason not to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u199	Thank you very much. A law that's bad and puts us back a few steps, I'm going to object. They say the smarts believe, but the wise ones check it out. And I don't see any reason why we should go down on thin ice by putting an end to such a commission that has undoubtedly done a lot of good in its work and my predecessor's claims [[...]] [[to talk to each other.]] Thank you very much. [[...]] I think that the matter that needs to be handled and the democratic world is also needed in Slovenia. And I wonder why it takes so much energy, so much effort, as it is a major Slovenian problem, to put an end to something that is obviously some distractions and concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to reapply. Member Joseph Jerovšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I'll support the law myself. Because the marriage seems to be working. Here we have heard, I hope that we will also hear about the names, that some Member may miraculously repay large loans, not at the expense of the Member's salary. And I am not surprised that the opposition is fighting at all times to halt the Commission's action to combat corruption, which has no results. For the opposition protects and comforts its people, who are deep, having their fingers wet in corrupt matters, and I am not surprised. The opposition - when it was in power, did this commission ineffectively on the basis that it had appointed as leader a man who had sinned against human rights, who had violated the right of journalists to freedom of reporting, should not have done so. If we were to have this commission prosecute corruption and, of course, the opposition tolerates and would not want to see corruption within the commission - when this commission ordered an unintended use of money for a study that has absolutely nothing to do with corruption, for a large sum of money - you tolerate, you do not see. If there were any normal opposition, as in normal countries, then we should absolutely request a derogation in the event of such corruption within the Commission. And once again, I will support this marriage. I believe the situation can only be better, not what you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u202	Thank you very much. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Just so I can keep those uncontrolled frustrations down and the fuzz ones down. Yeah, it looks like I'm getting about three million euros for my pharmaceutical products in Azerbaijan. But I have to say, the hell it is, they told me that your rooms in Baku had gone missing.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u204	What does the law mean? The law, as long as it is enforced, abolishes the anti-corruption commission. It's probably clear who's trying to shut it down and why they're trying to shut it down. However, Member Milan Petek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u205	Thank you, Vice President. I hope we can get back to the normal course of this session. I will not support this law, of course, with certain arguments that I intend to make. Four years ago I was not an MP, but I was one of the Slovenians who was bombarded with the word corruption via television, all the information tools, the electronic media, and a few others. Today we are talking about corruption. And then it was either an election or a election hit. And as it turns out, history repeats itself. This same coalition, then the opposition, used this hit for its own good, but today I think it's used to its own detriment - and it's the same. Let him use it to his own detriment. For now we are experiencing what they at the time saw ruling, and I think that many times and most of the time it is unjustifiable that the hunters of this corruption have apparently gone through the ranks within this coalition of some parties, some of the larger parties, and they do not choose these hunters. Names are known. So, the subjects of corruption are known, pediatrics, puffs, palms, casinos, but there are the names themselves that come from these two biggest parties of the coalition, not from the opposition. And for this reason, of course, it does not suit anyone to carry out his task further, and for this reason you have turned the board, and believe against Kos - if you have anything to say, if you have anything to complain about, charge him, file it to the prosecution, request a hearing in the courts. Then you will have an answer to what is true here, not to abolish it, without imposing it on the Commission or the Court of Auditors, the highest supreme audit authority for the control and control of public finances, the task of filling the pockets of some officials. These officers are usually of your kind. That's why this marriage cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u206	Thank you. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u207	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present. I think this law needs to be supported. If it were true that what some in the opposition are saying is that the SDS and other parties who have taken responsibility for leading the country in 2004 are not involved in the investigation of corruption - then why did we support the law which was later determined by the Constitutional Court that certain provisions are not in accordance with the Constitution which referred to the fact that the property of all state officials, the highest public officials, is public? Publicly, any citizen could look at the property of state officials at any moment. However, the Constitutional Court, and not the National Assembly, said that this provision did not comply with the Constitution. And we voted in favour of this law and for these provisions. That's why the readings you're throwing here are unfounded. He's not worried about the forms. The forms will have to be re-completed as before, and we will all have to submit another report in the interim by 30 June 2008 at the latest. So there is no fear of this paper war, which is actually unnecessary, because all records are accessible to all these state authorities and it would be sufficient to have a provision of a law saying that those involved have the right to look at it, which is already "after the defolk" in any way. I understand, however, that at the end of the term of office it will be necessary to keep the accounts, and it is this Commission that the debate has been held by the Kosovo Commission, which is the one in front of which the accounts will have to be deposited. I do not think that this Commission would be a political body and it would be very wrong to be. To the extent that her task was so understood by some in the opposition ranks, that is indeed a bad thing. That's really bad. And I think it is right that we understand it differently, that we understand it independently of personal, such or other views. For this reason, I think it is right that this law should be adopted, that the debate should stop as soon as possible and that it should be moved to action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Can we finish with the explanation of the voice? Thank you. Then he has a procedural proposal from his colleague, Školč. You're giving up? Good. My friend Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u209	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I propose a 45-minute recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u210	Your proposal was 45 minutes, as far as I could tell. [[Yeah.]] So we are adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 4:50 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. We continue with the earlier adjourned session. He requested 45 minutes of rest from his colleague Tanka on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Comrade Tank, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u212	Thank you very much. We have spent this time, for which we have asked, talking within the parliamentary group and propose that the vote on the law be postponed to one of the next meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u213	Thank you very much. That's your procedural proposal. Your procedural proposal may be put to the vote by the parliamentary groups present, after three minutes and then put to the vote. Do any of the parliamentary groups want it? Yeah. Then I will open a procedure for the application of the groups of Members. We've got six applications. Mr Lipa will speak on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. I have to say, I'm surprised by that suggestion. Yesterday almost all day, today for quite some time in explaining the vote by coalition, some coalition Members and Members, we have heard how good the law is before us. I don't know why good things this coalition would want to move on to any other time in this, I'll say, even in this reference. When we proposed the withdrawal of the item from the agenda in the Lipa Group, you easily rejected it. The law is great, it's perfect! The government has tried! It's a great law! We will get rid of one commission that is totally unnecessary! Now you're asking us to move it. Yes, if in these days until the next meeting of the National Assembly, any of your fellow citizens will still be able to convince them that they will change their minds as a chameleon, as they have done so many times before, then it seems to me that political mathematics will make this easy for us. You don't have to do enough. You know, you already have practice. But I want to tell you that you have argued that the law is committed, that it does not need changes, that it is beautiful, that Slovenia will revive, that corruption will dry up the next day! You're withdrawing him today! Are you looking for any more Palomas, since financial resources are not excessive at this time? Are you looking for anything else? Don't you have enough? I think you took what happened. And believe me, you'll find it very quickly because you have practice, and you know you don't need enough to get some more voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u215	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, colleague Jožef Školč will be identified before the proposal for a procedural decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy, we are particularly interested in what are the reasons for this thorough 45-minute reflection that led to the postponement of this vote. If they knew about these reasons, they'd have made an easy decision about it or against it. [[The ad in the hall.]] In Parliament, Mr Jerovšek, it does not work with classified information and secret official documents, I thought they had already set aside their time; if you still have them and if you operate with them, it is also worth considering. I believe that it is necessary for Parliament and the Slovenian public to say whether there have been any reservations or just counting that you do not have enough votes to adopt this law. For if this is the last, that there are not enough votes to adopt the law, then it is necessary to think about it. And that's what I'm worried about, because at least yesterday, you've been saying that one of the main engines is almost for corruption to increase, this bad committee. So, if this commission stays alive for another month, corruption, as your colleague from Mengsha said, will continue to be a distraction. I do not believe that this is the case, but, Mr Tanko, we would be obliged to tell us what you are counting on to support this proposal, to state the reasons for the postponement, only then could we support them. So far, whenever you have been silent and what is said to have been cooked, this has been badly ended for democracy, this has ended badly for legislative solutions. I am skeptical of these secret instructions of yours, which Jerovšek is talking about and which should not be understood by everyone in this House. Trust us, we can do this. If a coalition that was so keen to adopt this law was able to understand the reasons why this is not necessary at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u217	Thank you very much. However, Member Franz Žnidaršič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, we will not support this proposal. But the proposal is proof of what I said earlier that those who want to adopt this law are making fun of things. There is such an urgent need to do something and then to postpone to one of the future meetings. It was still missing to say that this should be postponed within the next or one of the following mandates. I must express great disappointment that we do not know exactly what has led, of course, after a very short period of time for consultants, to such a proposal. We must find that it is also true that it has never been seriously thought that we will fight corruption, as has been said before the last state elections by the most powerful party. None of this, nor of our own marriage, which is supposed to be remarkable, will be accepted. So if I had any more thought about supporting the issue, at least as far as the next vote is concerned, now all that could convince me to support one, but I can say it calmly - they are now very serious. In fact, to talk about the fight against corruption, to end an independent commission and to disperse on a number of 100 instruments of decision-making about what corruption is and what is not, and so on, is a primitive view of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u219	Thank you very much. My colleague Miran Potrč will be identified until the proposal for a procedural decision on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. We will not support the proposal of the three coalition parties in the Group of Social Democrats. A lot of insightful analysis has already been done. Why do the coalition or three parties to the coalition make such a proposal? I think they were funny, and many of us laughed at them. So let me be allowed not to try harder to be more witty than the predecessors, but let me be serious. What you're proposing to three coalition parties is a disgrace to the National Assembly. Until almost 5 minutes ago or an hour ago, you convinced us that the adoption of this law was necessary to ensure the enforcement of the anti-corruption fight in Slovenia. You have convinced us that this commission is obstructing the functioning of the regular state authorities dealing with the fight against corruption, not to mention what you told us three and a half years ago before you came into power. And be honest and say that you are also teaching all this Parliament that it is necessary to make decisions by a majority of votes. This time, too, let the majority decide, we are prepared to take the risk that the law is passed or that the law falls, but we are not prepared to accept your method of work, that when you count yourself or when you are not sure that your idea will be adopted, you are proposing a postponement of the decision for another time. Be consistent in your conduct. Let us vote or vote and see what will be the result. There is no substantive reason for the suspension of the sitting. If we are not in a series of treatments, but also yesterday and today, we have told each other everything why some of us are against the law being passed, and why you idealize it, then we have really sat on our ears and we are not ready to listen to each other. We will be against the laying down of consciousness that the National Assembly must decide, even with such a coalition as it is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Comrade Pavel Gantar on behalf of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Neither in the Group of Members will we really not support this proposal for a decision and we will vote against it. I must say that I personally and my fellow Members in the group have been surprised when the leader of the largest parliamentary group, Mr Tanko, requested a 45-minute recess, because we are confident that the telephone call to Japan can be made in a very short time, although we recognize the objective problem that the early morning hours are there and that the big boss had to wake up before he could decide on such an important issue as voting on this law today, after this local time, this day, here in here. Certainly, apart from what anyone can ascertain, there are no other reasons why a decision should be proposed to postpone this decision to one of the next meetings, as it was said, in this or the following mandates. However, we do not think that this decision is consistent with what you have always said and said and said and wanted to bring this law to an end through parliamentary procedure, to end the commission, to abolish and dismiss the unloved head of this commission and to carry out your anti-corruption fight in your way. We have certainly come to the point that before the decision as it will fall, we will fall if we vote on this law. And I think that it would be at least ethical and politically sustainable and acceptable if we adopted in this vote the consequences of our own decisions. It's not like you're putting this in the next session. So once again, we will vote against the proposal for a decision, not a coalition, but the largest party in this coalition, that is the SDS. I have not heard from the other members of the coalition parties, except one which has been identified against this Decision, but I have not heard any other opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u223	Thank you very much. We will therefore vote on the procedural proposal tabled in the procedure by my colleague Tanko. My friend Tanka, if I'm going to misquote him, please correct me. So you're suggesting that the decision on the law be postponed to one of the following meetings. We will vote on that decision. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, for 43, for 36. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposal for a decision submitted by my colleague Tanka has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda - second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreigners, under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We will decide on two amendments, namely the amendment of Article 27 of the SNS Group. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members, for 20, for 44. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the same parliamentary group to Article 31. We're voting. There are 73 Members and 10 Members present, up to 58. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 58.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. We have concluded by deciding on the two amendments and by this second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment to the amended second reading law was not adopted, amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Also in this law, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised because of amendments adopted on the home labour body. Before voting, I shall open a procedure for applications for discussion, on behalf of the groups of Members. Shirtz's colleague? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u224	Thank you. In the Group of Members, we are absolutely against the law, at least in the part which is very significant and which actually reports some sad xenophobic thing Slovenia has to do with foreigners. This law brings a lot of restrictions, which will mean some kind of restriction or making it difficult for foreigners to enter Slovenia. And since we know that this is primarily about those who come here, especially from the countries of the former Yugoslavia, that is to say, those countries that are not in the European Union and which mean important intercultural and other flows, that is certainly a very bad message. Not only that, but this law introduces certain guarantee lists, which will mean that in administrative units all those who will issue these guarantees for foreigners and all those foreigners who will come to Slovenia, as it were, in the register, in files that will be accessible to everyone and which will also be meaningful and available for a wide range of purposes. We certainly believe that this kind of closure of the country in front of other people and impeding their stay in Slovenia for the 21st century is unacceptable. And for a country that behaves with intercultural dialogue and that behaves with openness, it is also unacceptable. It also means that one thing we talk about, one thing we deal with, another thing we do, and other things we think about. Of course, people do not care about this problem, nor do they care about the pain and problems of people coming from foreign countries in great personal distress. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Everybody's having fun, I see. Nobody's listening today. Of course, this law has been passed with nonchalantity, but it will strike you over the head even when you will see that, if not another, at least other countries or others, it will warn you that such xenophobia is not suitable for modern society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Since I can see there are other applications, please sign in. I'm opening the procedure. The word has been given by the Member of the Victory of the Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Despite the fact that our two amendments have not been adopted, we will support the law because in its proposal, the Government has implemented most of our proposals that we have put forward in the debates, in the parliamentary initiatives and so on. The fact is that Slovenia must preserve its country, its country and its citizens. The fact that we should bow to the left, to the right, and to the outsiders here, I don't know what ratings, while doing nothing for their people is embarrassing, is sad, and this indicates the servants' behavior of some who are willing to subject their own people to some foreigners. What's going on in neighbouring Austria where they got away with it? In Graz, Austria, which is very close to Maribor, they hold a complete drug trade in the hands of immigrants from Africa. No one can actually get to the bottom of them, and I don't think we can afford to have that kind of thing with us. It's happening. [[..]] [[ad from the bench.]] Mr. LDS colleague, I understand that you would like to see that the locals are running a drug trade, but I think that is already being run by some of the locals, perhaps some of whom you know. [[...]] I'm against them leading this on one side or the other because I'm against drugs. I voted for that drug law, not like you who voted for it. That's the way it is. The fact is that we must take care of our country, for our citizens, if we do not do so, Slovenia will soon disappear, disappear and be ruled by foreigners. This very broad talk about human rights has no basis, as it appears in Slovenia that only marginal groups, gangs and foreigners have human rights in Slovenia, possibly those who come to Slovenia in black, with the help of misplaced groups, including domestic groups involved in such strange trades. We welcome this law. We hoped he'd be sharper, but he's better than who he was before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Anybody else want some? Yes, I'm reopening the procedure. Here's to the application. Thank you very much. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u228	I will not object to the enforcement of this law in the Lip Group of Members, nor will I oppose it myself. I agree with those who oppose both drugs and the excess of human rights in some groups of people or the excess of a certain measure of tolerance that we do not yet know in this country as Slovenians and Slovenes and give them to someone else who is in our country. I myself did not object to the amendments tabled to this law because I do not care. But is it true that when I hear someone talking about slavery from the mouth, I would go back to the previous vote and look at who is actually a servant to whom and who is actually worshiping whom - or to the benefit of the Slovenes and the Slovenes or to the benefit of my own pocket? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Aleš Gulič to the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u230	Mr President-in-Office. Of course, I will not support the bill, especially because it is essentially getting into the powerless and is primarily about the amount of punishment that is adapted to a law that we have opposed. In fact, those who already have nothing and who are in severe distress are burdened even worse than they are. Here was talked about how to actually wait at the Slovenian border of a horde that would break in, for domestic resellers to take the opportunity to make a profit. Of course, there's a lot to talk about. Slovenians to those seeking asylum in the Republic of Slovenia were never servants of anything else. We used to want to make them for servants, which is certainly not an honor, not a pride. These amendments to the Foreigners Act are simply doing what this authority does to other citizens, there is greater repression, more severe penal policy, higher penalties. In this we may be even, but this is not good, not for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, not for those who come to us or who want to come to us, and who are also joyfully invited. It is important to realize that the labour required by Slovenia does not arise here, but we import it because Slovenia is not enough. This is not the first time in the history of this territory. It's happened a lot of times that we've helped people from somewhere else, and it's probably going to be like this now.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-22-SDZ4-Redna-38.ana.u231	Thank you very much. We can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 18. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the law has been passed. In the framework of the parliamentary debate on the draft law under Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government proposed that the National Assembly approve the officially consolidated text of the law. On the basis of this, I therefore propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: "The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly shall draw up an official consolidated text of the Foreigners Act and submit it for approval to the National Assembly." We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 6. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on, and we continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda - by addressing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on ID card. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised, so we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 27. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the law has been passed. This time, too, the Government applied the right of Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly in the course of the debate and proposed to the National Assembly to confirm the officially consolidated text of the law. Therefore, my decision, which is based on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, reads: "The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly shall draw up an official consolidated text of the Law on the ID card and submit it for approval to the National Assembly." We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 14 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. Under this item, the Assembly will consider: firstly, two proposals by the Council of Justice for the election to a judicial function by means of proposals for decisions; secondly, a proposal for a decision supplementing the decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia; thirdly, a proposal for a decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the Law on RTV Slovenia. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. As it is said, we are first moving on to the two proposals of the Judicial Council for election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted two proposals to the National Assembly for the election of a candidate and a candidate for judicial office in the court seat of the District Court and a judge in the District Courts in Celje and New Town. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, as the working body of the Member State which submitted written reports and proposals for conclusions to the assembly. To present the views of the parliamentary groups, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia applied. You're giving up. Thank you, Comrade Saiovic. There are no other applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mr Matjaž Guca to the judge's seat at the District Court in Celje. We're voting. 65 Members and Members present, 60 votes in favour, one objecting to the proposal. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election to the judicial function of Mrs Mojce Hodé to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Novi Grad. We're voting. 62 Members and Members were present and 59,2 opposed to the proposal. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There is no application for discussion, so we are coming to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. 62 Members and Members attended, 60 votes against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. And the last item in the framework of the mandate-election cases is the draft decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, on the basis of the seventh indent of the sixth paragraph of Article 17 of the RTV Slovenia Act. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which proposes to appoint Mr Tomaž Habet as a member, for the period until the end of the four-year mandate of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, which was established in 2006. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Mr Tomaž Habet as a member of the programme council of Radio Television of Slovenia on the basis of the seventh indent, paragraph 6, of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, for the period until the end of the four-year term of office of the Programme Council of RTV of Slovenia, which was established in 2006. In doing so, I inform you that on the basis of Article 17, paragraph 9, of the Law on RTV Slovenia, if the majority of Members vote for it, that is 46 or more. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present; all the Members present voted in favour of the proposal, i.e. against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the decision has also been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're moving on to 26. At the time of the day, this is to consider the draft law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the employment of seasonal workers. The draft law was tabled by the Government in its consideration of the assembly, and the draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 27. On the day-to-day basis, this is a defensive proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of National Defence of the People's Republic of China on cooperation in the defence area. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. In the framework of the legislative process, the draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent labour force. You've received the committee's report. No amendments have been adopted for the discussion and no amendments have been adopted for the second reading, so we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 28. At the time of the day, this is a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income and property taxes, with the Protocol. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. The Committee of the National Assembly also reported to the National Assembly in writing, and you received the report from all Members and all Members. No amendments have been adopted in connection with this law, and no amendments have been adopted by the mother labour force in the second reading, which means that we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Anybody want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to 29. At the end of the day, this is an evocative proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy Ministry of the Republic of Albania on development cooperation. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was also considered this time by the Committee on Foreign Policy, as the working body of the country, which reported in writing to the assembly or Members and Members of Parliament. We also do not have any amendments in relation to this law to the debate and the mother's working body has not adopted any amendments in the second reading of the draft law, so we can go to the vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. I'm adjourning the 38th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Have a nice afternoon, a nice evening and so on.
