ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Please take your seats. We begin the 40th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Roberto Battelli, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Aurelio Juri, Bojan Kontič, Milan M. Cvikl, Janko Weber, Miran Potrč, Mihael Prevc, Jakob Preseknik by 3 p.m., Happy Friend, Martin Mikolič, Cyril Testen, Ljubo Germič, Miran Jerič, Rudolf Moge, Milan Friday, Franc [[Ferry]] Horvat, Victory Jelinčič Tribal and Mr Dimitrij Kovacic. At the meeting, I invited representatives of the Government to all the agenda items. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 40th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. First of all, we are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The Group of Social Democrats proposes to withdraw from the agenda the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the public sector wage system, an urgent procedure. You received the proposal by letter of 25. Seven. 2008 Does Mr. Skolč want a word, or do you have a procedural proposal? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I do, because you started this procedure, and later, when the Social Democrats come forward with their reasons, they would be identified. But I also have another question related to the inappropriate agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u3	Thank you. Would you like a representative of the motions? Mr. Bevk, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, in accordance with Article 64(3) of the Rules of Procedure, proposes the withdrawal of the 5th agenda item of the 40th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, namely the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. At the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats last Thursday at the 144th meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly, we pointed out that the proposed amendment to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System does not meet any of the business conditions for dealing with it under urgent procedure. As a result of this fact, the draft law should not be considered at the 40th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Even more important than business are the substantive reasons why we believe in the parliamentary group that the bill should not be considered and adopted by the National Assembly. The content of the proposed amendment of the law interferes with the acquired rights of public servants, which are the product of long-term negotiations and the agreement reached and recently signed on the content of collective agreements between the social partners. The government has not obtained the consent of the public sector trade unions for the proposed amendment of the law and is now seeking to withdraw unilaterally from the agreement. This approach is nowhere near the basic principles of social partnership, although the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, has recently referred to it as regards wage harmonisation in the public sector. In the Group of Social Democrats, we therefore expect the National Assembly to act as a responsible legislator and support the withdrawal of the item from the agenda and recommend to the Government that the draft law be aligned with the trade unions of the public sector. Regardless of the fact that today's meeting of the home labour force for this area, where it is intended to take place in the future, in the coming hours, an agreement has been reached between the work of trade unions and the ministry or the government, this position does not affect this fact, because we are not aware of what this agreement is supposed to be and, if this agreement is even possible, we are proposing to withdraw this item from the agenda of today's meeting of the National Assembly. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I ask the assembly to accept our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u5	Thank you. Mr Rep, Secretary of State as representative of the Government, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to say that the Member's remarks do not necessarily hold. With the novel that we have proposed, we are in no way infringing or interfering with the rights we have acquired. Likewise, we did not undermine the system or, in any way, have a major impact on the already agreed starting points. I would also like to say that social partnership or social dialogue is extremely important and that the Government also adheres to it. It is true that we have prepared a novel last week that we have not been able to reconcile with representatives of representative unions, but we have not sat at the crossroads of time. Certain coordination and negotiation took place yesterday. As you have already mentioned, this morning the committee has been suspended, we expect somewhere by 12 noon that we will also receive a written statement from the negotiating group of representative trade unions on coordination and with corrections and amendments we will be able to offer you a proposal for a law that will absolutely also be consistent with the social partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u7	Thank you. I am opening an application for an explanation of the position of the members of the groups. Here you go, Mr. Tank. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me say in the introduction that we will not support my proposal. Wage negotiations or wage reform - negotiations have been held for quite some time already in the previous mandate. The previous coalition in this area has failed to complete the procedures and remains unfinished. In this mandate, thank God, all these key matters have been settled and the law has also been adopted. Thus, the system is regulated, the law is adopted, but in some areas or in one part different interpretations are possible and it is also necessary to bring the matter into line with this amendment. I think it is wrong that because of some detail, there is a lack of harmony in withdrawing this point or insisting on a marriage solution. We estimate that both the Government and the negotiating group will be able to find a common solution by 12 noon, and then this law could be adopted in the National Assembly with appropriate adjustments. We will not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the Lipa Group, we will, as always, try to keep the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which some of you are trying to deliberately violate. In particular, he is a specialist in this field of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a coalition that approves such acts. 173. Article 173 of the Rules of Procedure states that when the adoption of legislation is necessary for the sake of the security or defence of the State, or for the purpose of remedying the consequences of natural disasters, or in order to prevent difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State, the Government may propose the adoption of legislation in accordance with the urgency procedure. Let me tell you, either you who are in charge of the session, or those who have been in the college for an emergency procedure, or the representatives of the Government who have passed this law, is such an important law that must go on the basis of the security of the State following the urgent procedure at the written meeting. At the letter session, you adopted a law that goes by emergency procedure and explain to us how necessary and necessary it is! I won't go into the content. We'll probably talk more about the content, but I'm talking about the procedure. The college was called on the phone because of this marriage! 9.45 that it is at 2 p.m. because we have an emergency law because it is a matter of state security! And you will tell anyone from the opposition that he is ever in violation of the rules of procedure! You're knowingly violating it! Now I've read you an article that allows the law to be dealt with by emergency procedure. Which of these things happened in this country? The committee did not consider it either. The unions didn't define themselves for him either. Two months ago, you represented the best wage law in the public sector, the most coordinated. After two months, we change it by emergency procedure. You've got to be kidding me. Joke to the leadership of the National Assembly, joke to the government of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u11	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Therefore, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I argue that this proposal does not have all the necessary elements in place so that it can be placed on the agenda at this moment. In fact, look; this law has three articles, the contents, the fourth is the one that speaks of when it will enter into force. And with regard to these three articles, this morning the Government on the Internal Policy Committee announced that amendments had been made to the National Assembly. We've never seen these amendments before. We don't know what their content is, we don't know what the unions are going to say, which is going to take a position on these amendments by 12 o'clock today. So, it is more than obvious that this is a completely unserious approach to work in the National Assembly as well, and we cannot support such a way of doing the work of the National Assembly. In one of its views, the Legislative and Legal Service stressed that the objective that the Government wants to achieve with this proposal could already be achieved by authentic interpretation of individual articles - those which are unclear in the law in force. Clearly, then, there is no need for us to go to the new novelty of this law, except that the nature of this novel is such that it requires or permits an urgent procedure. It is clear that the Government or the Ministry has taken account of the financial implications of this law, and I would only like to stress that this amendment is the fifth in this mandate; therefore, the Government has not taken enough time, even in the four previous amendments to this law, to assess the financial implications of any novelty it has proposed. So, we are convinced that this is a completely insurmountable attitude towards the work of the National Assembly and that this bill cannot be placed on the agenda because it simply does not have all the necessary elements that it should have under our Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The honourable President of the National Assembly should himself have determined that such a law does not meet the conditions for consideration and should in fact inform Members that the law does not meet the conditions of Article 59 of the Rules of Procedure or Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure. From this point of view, this debate is to some extent irrelevant and can only be taken as an aid to the President that the National Assembly would not really be humiliated when it takes a decision at 10 a.m. to find out what he has taken at 12 o'clock. This is about the structure that the coalition wants from us right now: let's take something now, and at 12:00 we'll see what the unions and the government have agreed on. This is unacceptable from the point of view of the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall have the necessary material on the table to begin the meeting and the National Assembly shall have the position of the National Working Committee on these materials. We do not have each other at this time, Mr President, so I expect you to withdraw this item from the agenda yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u15	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u16	Thank you very much. In the Group of Members, we really believe that this point does not meet the conditions. The Internal Policy Committee has not submitted a report, it has not met, it will only, therefore, that if you do what is right and you always do what is right in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, withdraw this point. Perhaps tomorrow, however, we could call another extraordinary meeting tomorrow, thus completing our term of office with 41 regular and 41 extraordinary meetings. That there are no conditions, we have warned on the committee this morning, and there is not the best minister of this government, it is clear that it is not because it is blushing at the fact that he has made a mistake in drafting this law. And this law, by the way, is not lifting, there is no minor change and correction, there is nothing small that needs to be clarified, because now no one can calculate how to pay on September 1st, so that there is no mistake, not later than September 1st, and because there is a disorder, it is now with the power you have to establish this order. Surely it is a law that actually has consequences, you say that irreparable consequences can arise if - I will say in quotations - we do not accept "authentic explanations" today. That is why I remind you that you do not put on the agenda of the living law, but one that fundamentally interferes with some of the arrangements already made. We do not know how today or which unions are currently conducting a dialogue, whether they are represented by everyone, whether there will be a majority agreement or not, but it does not matter. It is important that there are no business conditions, and Mr President, this should be known by you as the first and, of course, to take appropriate action. We will respect the Rules of Procedure and vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr Bevk, as a motioner, would you like an additional explanation? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to the vote. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda is not adopted. Mr. Skull, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I regret, Mr President, that you have not done what you should do as President. There's no excuse for that, and you can only have a coalition. I also ask how it is possible for you to include the fourth decision on the law on legal representation at the meeting of this assembly. Our rules of procedure do not allow that. Article 83 of the Rules of Procedure states that if the assembly is not concluded after the third vote, the chairman shall suspend the meeting and determine when it shall proceed. I'm not going to read you a magnetogram here, but in a magnetogram, the chairman has done everything that can be done, and much of this is contrary to the rules of procedure, so this can only be resolved at this moment at the meeting of the assembly. If you take this paragraph into account consistently, it would appear that, in fact, even a new extraordinary meeting cannot be started or begun until it ends without an appropriate conclusion of the previous one, but let us leave. You've already walked this rule. However, it is certainly not possible, I will say, to include this law in this session in this way, because the President later decided otherwise that the meeting was concluded. The meeting may be closed only if all agenda items are exhausted. Thus, we can only find that the Law on Lawyers has fallen into the procedure of the National Assembly and only a new procedure can be initiated, not just a third-reading vote. Mr President, this is unacceptable, what you are doing with this agenda and decision-making in the National Assembly! There is no way to provide a structure for this politically motivated decision of yours. You are the President of the National Assembly, and you are committed to the Members, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, not to Mr Tank, who, by the way, in four years at one of the last meetings notes that something has not been done for 4, 8, 12 or 50 years.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u19	Mr. Sculpture. I do not wish to comment on you, but I do have to say this to the public that more than a third of the laws do not end up in one session, but they are terminated and the continuation of the treatment or adoption is transferred to other meetings. And if you would like to suggest that this point should also be removed from the agenda, you should make a written proposal in due time, and you did not make this, because of this motion to withdraw the item, I will not put the vote to the vote, Mr Školč. Now, do you still have a procedural proposal, Mrs. Žgainer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly. My procedural proposal is that item 6 of the agenda be placed first of today's meeting. It is said that before we substantively descend into the individual laws that are the subject of today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, we will give 5 minutes of the time, as you, of course, have ordered, to the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Saš Pečet, for further explanation or an introduction to Members and Members of the National Assembly, and finally to the general public on the reasons for his proposed resignation. I estimate that this agenda item is so important that it cannot be classified at the end of the meeting. Last but not least, by this decision or by this move, the National Assembly, as the legislative branch of power, will also lose the only opposition Member in the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly, meaning in other words that this government coalition will have a free hand in its work, which has been stepping up for some time and has been in obvious violations not only of the rules of procedure but also of democracy. As has already been said, I propose that the 6th item of the agenda be placed first and therefore treated as the first item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u21	Thank you, Mrs Žgajner Tavš, but first we must adopt the agenda, then we can vote on your proposal. And Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Because of the magnetogram or historical memory, I would like to ask you to repeat the vote that has just been taken on the Public Sector Wage System Act, because you have not made it clear that we have really understood in the Group that we are voting on the agenda because the decision has not been read. Therefore, I ask that we repeat this because we have voted against our conviction. At the same time, I am also taking advantage of the possibility of proposing a 20-minute break to harmonise ourselves to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u23	Mrs Shirca, the vote was quite clear, it was in the proposal to withdraw the point. No interruption may be requested when voting on the agenda. Mr Školč - repetition is out of the question. Mr Školč, a re-procedural proposal and I will thus conclude this interesting scenario of procedural proposals. Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Like you, I'm going to say, in a way, you've abused the position you're taking. One time so that you didn't withdraw what's obvious that you should withdraw, according to what you're saying. Secondly, to argue with a Member who is unable to respond. I must say, for you and for the public, that it is unfair for Members to expect us to request the withdrawal of a point that we know in advance that we should not be placed on the agenda at all. From this point of view, it is true that laws are dealt with in trophasic procedures and that some, although very rare, also go through a common trophasic procedure. Otherwise, it shall be considered that when a vote is taken on a matter already in the procedure for that vote to be taken at that meeting and, as a rule, before the vote, at any time by a decision, it shall be decided that the vote shall be put to one of the following meetings. In the case of the Law on Lawyers, the assembly carried out the whole procedure, carried out three votes, the law was not adopted in three votes, the Vice-President concluded the meeting, this is the result of a magnetogram, which concludes all the points. That's what I'm talking about, Mr President, and don't make me agree to make a mistake with you, because I know this is a deliberate abuse of the Rules of Procedure. You deliberately incorporated the Law on Lawyering into this session, and you know that he fell in the previous session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u25	Thank you. Thank you for your insults about my intentions, too. We are now moving on because I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, and we are moving on to setting the agenda as proposed by the meeting. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 38 votes in favour, 16 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the agenda has been adopted. We are moving on to Mrs Zgajner Tavš's proposal that the 6th point be moved and that we begin the meeting with the 6th point first. With regard to this proposal, I ask whether any Group of Members wishes to give its opinion on this proposal. No, no, no. Then we vote on this procedural proposal. If more than a third opposes, then the proposal is not accepted. We're voting. There are 63 Members present and 26 votes against 37. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 37.]] I find that the procedural proposal is not adopted. I note that the agenda and the allocation of points have been adopted as referred to. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Right to defend the bill on amendments to the Social Security Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš. With regard to this bill, a group of 12 Members and Members, first signed by Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. That is why I give the floor first of all to the representative of the bill's proponents, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, to further explain the bill's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u26	Thank you so much for your words, dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear guests in the stands. Four family helpers - those who still insist, despite the changes that have made their socio-economic situation significantly worse. I will begin with the thought: The unity of a human being stems from the fact that an individual can determine and decide regardless of his handicap. A way of life is one of these choices that we choose and create each other's uniqueness. But, well-respected colleagues, not all people have this opportunity. There are people who are unable to express their will clearly, but they can show what they want or what they want. They can show where and with whom they feel good, where and with whom they enjoy themselves. I mentioned it, and at first I greeted four family helpers. I want to show you what their everyday life is like. One of the family assistants 24 hours a day takes care of his 26-year-old son with cerebral paralysis. One of the family assistants takes care of her son 24 hours a day with severe mental illness. One of the family assistants is taking care of her 20-year-old daughter, a girl who has rheto syndrome. And one of the family assistants takes care of his wife, a sick, injured wife - 24 hours a day. Despite the fact that the Institute of Family Assistants, which was introduced into the Slovenian legal order in 2004, proved to be a good positive practice, since it means an alternative form, I will say, the social welfare services were then under the Ministry of our current colleague, Mr Drobnič, made changes which significantly affected the Institute of Family Assistants, which significantly made their socio-economic situation worse. Family assistants are usually family members who, in order to obtain the status of family assistants, have to break their regular working relationship and log out of the unemployment register, conclude a contract and receive a minimum payment or some kind of compensation which, because of the law on social transfers, is not even equal to the minimum wage, even though this has been established by law. These persons, as has already been said, perform some kind of social protection service 24 hours a day, work, some kind of employment, but they do not have the rights arising from labour law. They have no right to leave, they have no right to regression, they have no right to a hospital or hospital stock. Since 2004, family helpers have been asking the country to do something to protect their status. Their requests and efforts have been all the more intense since 2006 or the changes that have been made in this House. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has been referring for two years to the Long-Terms Act, which Mr Dominkuš, who is with us today - for the Mag officer, will not be mistaken - to be ready by 2012. Dear colleagues and colleagues. By 2012, these people, family helpers and disabled people have to survive today, with minimal income, even disabled people are obliged under the new law to fund their parents to provide help at home. I believe you can see from a height differently than from a low. But respected colleagues and colleagues, disabled people can't go to Triglav to see a bright future by 2012. I'm asking you, on behalf of the family and the disabled, to support the law that is before us today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u27	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mrs Romani Tomc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u28	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The proposed amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act in the area of the establishment of the Family Assistant Institute would be as follows: the regulation of the right to choose a family assistant as a new social security service, the change in the status of a family assistant, the abolition of the system of contribution to the payment of the rights of a family assistant by disabled persons and their dependants, would also mean the transfer of funding from municipalities to the country, while at the same time a new system of compensation liability. This is not a minor change, as suggested by the applicants, but rather a greater intervention at the Institute of Family Assistants. The solutions proposed are incomplete and do not provide substantive improvements for family assistants, and for those who have the right to choose a family assistant, even worsen the situation. In the current scheme, the family assistant shall have the right to payment for lost income, pension and disability care, health care, employment and unemployment insurance and parental protection. The family assistant shall be entitled to the payment provided by the recipient of the aid and the service to which the disabled person is entitled. The insured person’s contribution is paid by the family assistant himself, and the employer’s contribution is paid by the congregation. While some rights under the status of a family assistant may be compared with those under labour law, this is not a labour relationship, and therefore all elements such as the right to annual leave cannot be regulated in the same way as the employment relationship. In the introductory explanation, the applicants propose that the Institute be set up in a manner similar to that of self-employed persons, which would otherwise be one of the possible ways, but this is not properly carried out in the text itself. In the light of the concerns already mentioned regarding the use of annual leave, it should be noted that the question of who will take care of this disabled person at the time of family leave is not adequately addressed. It is unacceptable for a disabled person to be deprived of care while on leave. On the other hand, the situation of a family assistant is deteriorating after the amendment has been proposed, as in the event of the death of a disabled person, the current right to receive a three-month payment is withdrawn. This means that the family assistant is placed on the labour market the next day after the death of the caregiver. Compared to labour legislation - without any dismissal. A new chapter on compensation liability is also proposed, which is incomprehensiblely incomplete and completely impractical. The proposed amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection are not supported by the Government because of all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u29	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! We do not support the proposed amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection, which Barbara Žgajner Tavš put into the procedure following a rapid procedure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the institution of a family assistant was conceived in the way we probably want and imagine, positively and in the interests of the protector who is supposed to live in his home, in the circle of his family. I am convinced that this is what all users, political parties like all civil society, are advocating, but unfortunately we find that from day one it is accompanied by such and different problems. In the previous term, in the Social Protection Act, the family assistant was sent to the realization of the municipality. However, the huge drawback was that the requirement for the implementation of this institute was not followed by adequate financial support for this project. The Constitutional Court also said that. In order to make the tragedy even greater, some small and underdeveloped congregations almost declared bankruptcy because of a family helper. During the current term of office, the congregations received additional funds to cover problems related to the family helper, a new law that had somewhat burdened the congregations and allowed them to pay their expenses with real estate, of course, if the protector had them or if he still had them. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the institution of a family assistant with these amendments has not yet been adequately regulated, but we are convinced that the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection, which is currently under consideration, is not the right basis for a comprehensive solution, it is not the right approach to be addressed after a reduced procedure, as it is not less difficult to amend and supplement the law, but it is also a systemic change and, last but not least, not the right time for a responsible and comprehensive resolution of such difficult matter. In addition, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we also draw attention to the law on long-term care and long-term care insurance, which is in preparation and will be reorganized by the institution of a family assistant or personal assistant, so it does not seem appropriate to change the law on social protection to the nose. The basic purpose of the long-term care and long-term insurance law is to fully regulate this area in a way that integrates health and social services, enables economic accessibility to services throughout the country, ensures a sustainable and stable financial resource, facilitates the implementation of domestic care, which means the regulation and promotion of informal operators, the regulation of the status of a personal assistant and the application of appropriate arrangements in the field of prevention, rehabilitation and the use of communication and technical assistance. In the opinion of the Government, some of the solutions proposed are incomprehensible, incomprehensible and also unacceptable, and consequently not feasible. With regard to liability, the applicant does not propose an assessment of the financial implications. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, it really seems a waste of time and effort to solve the problem of a family assistant on the nose, because we are confident that we will be able to adopt it through a large consensus once the government has drawn up legislation and we will help to improve the proposal in a regular debate, of course at the time after the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u31	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u32	Good day and thank you very much for your words, Mr President. The Group of Social Democrats will support this draft law at first reading, because the continuation of the efforts and proposals that we have proposed with some Members - and this time I must stress not only the opposition but also the coalition - in the process of supplementing this Act on Social Protection, but unfortunately they have not been adopted. In fact, the essence of these changes is to transfer the burden of financing a family assistant with the shoulders of the municipalities, in particular small municipalities, who have the problem of simply not being able to cover these costs with their finances if they have disproportionately many people who need 24-hour care and help at home, simply cannot cover these costs. Therefore, we believe that the introduction of the Family Assistant Institute has been positive, but the system that introduced funding in the burden of the municipalities has been positive, despite the changes that have led to the obligation of the provider, that his allowance for assistance and service has been transferred to the congregation and that it has then paid the family assistant basic income, while the funds for everything else that would have worked for the family assistant from the working relationship - because usually family helpers leave the labour market and can be called self-employed; it is said that all their social benefits must be paid on their own. We believe that this problem of a family assistant could, in fact, solve the only promise or promise made by the Minister to the colleagues of the Lip Group as well as to those family assistants and caregivers themselves; that the whole theme of the family assistant or assistant will be to people in need of 24-hour care and care, resolved by the law on long-term care and health care at home, so that a problem that has been open and triggered by a union of handicapped people, led by Mrs Pečarič, will also be solved for several years. Here I think that by law covering the whole area, both users and operators, or non-institutional or institutional care and home care, in order to solve the problem in full, both funding and implementation, which could be non-profit in the private sector or also non-profit in the public sector, so that the implementation palette could be very broad. Finally, as a conclusion, it could be said that, at relatively non-essentially increased costs, things could be organised in particular to the satisfaction of users and, of course, also those who provide family assistance at home, 24-hour home aid. I must say that the changes that have taken place at this time have, in fact, brought some relief to municipal finances, but have not solved the problems that arise with users themselves and family assistants. In particular, the worst, certainly the worst problem is that a family assistant in the form they now finance, the combined finances of the user and the community do not solve the problem in such a way that a family assistant may have the right to weekly rest, daily rest, to annual leave, to hospital leave and, ultimately, to protection or compensation if for various reasons of unemployment, including the death of the caregiver. We believe that this law can at least partially solve some problems. However, I think that the Government will have to bite into this sour apple and prepare a special law, so it would be right to confirm this law in a transitional period and to adopt it definitively, but the Government must nevertheless prepare a final solution in the form of a special law that will deal with it in detail, with all the salaries that occur in these mutual relations between financiers, operators and users of family assistants or assistants, as they say in other countries of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u34	Dear Mr President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! It has been a while since the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee addressed this issue, which was there at the beginning of the second half of April, and things have not moved. Therefore, we have signed a request from individual Members of the Liberal Democracy Club that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Social Protection Act be placed on the agenda of this meeting or that the requirement be met to discuss these matters more broadly. In fact, the proposer’s desire to settle the family helper’s field is, of course, appropriate, and the solutions or will shown by the text is good. However, it is important that matters relating to family assistants be transferred from insecure local communities, for example, to a more reliable country, of course, where these differences between local communities are no longer important: that this institution of family assistant be regulated in such a way that it is, however, an employed person provided by the State in the framework of social security services: to ensure the rights of family assistants at work, indeed, a minimum - even more would be better; that the proposed changes are also included in the section on compensation responsibility. The introduction of the Family Assistant Institute is certainly a good and appropriate approach to addressing the issue of care for persons, for all persons, care and assistance needed. However, it would be good to draw up a comprehensive analysis of the situation in the field of the exercise of this right, to the choice of a family assistant, in all respects. Some concerns remain open. In fact, the right to exercise additional rights to family assistants and the rights belonging to persons in a working relationship are in some way left to all those who are family assistants, but are not in a working relationship. In fact, if family helpers are granted work-related rights, the question arises how these rights will then be guaranteed to parents who care for disabled persons who are underage or also full-age when their disability rate is such that it cannot be resolved otherwise; and then they become beneficiaries of the same benefits as family assistants who receive it from another legal basis, the Parental Protection Act and family benefits. Well, the view of the Liberal Democracy is that, now, we repeat that from April 17th, the Ministry should examine the material, proposals, comments and, with a comprehensive analysis of the situation, prepare any necessary changes to the field legislation. In the Liberal Democracy Club, of course, we also believe that it would make sense to include a comprehensive solution to this issue in the long-term supply law. And we agreed to assurances and promises, but things didn't work out, they didn't work. The promise made earlier by colleague Tavševa - 2012 is, of course, a far-reaching future, very far ahead. 12 months would be too short, 12 days would be appropriate, given that the issue is known that this is not something that fell out of the sky and appeared today. The reasons behind the adoption of a new law or amendments to the Long-Term Care Act are, of course, also in the greater social security of those dependent on it, in order to eliminate the unjustifiable distinction between meeting their specific needs in order to enforce home care in order to ensure the integration of their family members into this care and to help those unable to take care of themselves. In general, it is the exercise of their human rights. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we will, just because we weigh between whether it makes sense so quickly and, say, partly to solve this problem, and in the version that we see as an integrated solution, we will vote as one will weigh it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with colleagues, distinguished colleague, respected colleague! A group of Members, with their first signed colleague, Barbara Žgajner Tavš, introduced in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Social Protection. The proposal foresees the transfer of the entire, in the opinion of the applicant inappropriate, arrangements for this area back to the country. The proposed amendment to the law is governed by the institution of a family assistant in such a way as to ensure the minimum right of family assistants to work, the financial exclusion of the municipality in the organisation of the institution of a family assistant and the introduction of a new chapter on compensation liability. This means that the law actually interferes with the financing and status of the family assistant, as it introduces its new rights under labour law while at the same time abolishing the system of contributions to the payment of the assistant by persons with disabilities or their dependents. The proposed amendments constitute the regulation of the right to choose a family assistant as a new social security service. Members of New Slovenia are convinced that the proposal for a law does not make any improvements to family helpers, except the possibility of using an annual leave, and in this period the situation of a disabled person is deteriorating as their assistance for the period of use of the annual leave by the family assistant is not regulated. In view of the fact that it is the right to choose a family assistant for the rights of a disabled person and not for the right of a family assistant, we believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act would make the situation of disabled persons significantly worse. The bill also deprives the family assistant of the right to receive a three-month partial payment for lost income after the death of the disabled person, which means that the following day after the death of the disabled person is placed on the labour market or in the register of unemployed persons, meaning that the situation would also deteriorate for the family assistants. Nor do we agree with the innovations brought by the proposed new chapter on compensation liability, because the provisions are incomprehensible, incomprehensible and totally unacceptable with the proposed content and therefore not feasible. At the same time, no assessment of the financial implications was submitted by the applicants to their proposal on compensation liability. Members of New Slovenia will not support the proposed law or amendments. We would like to stress, however, that we welcome the law on long-term care and insurance for the long-term care that is in preparation and that it is also the objective, both of the coalition treaties and of the adopted resolutions of the national social security programme for the period 2006 to 2010. In this law, which represents one of the most important measures in the context of social policy, the institution of a family assistant will be reorganized. The area will be regulated by integrating health and social services, ensuring equal access to services throughout the country and ensuring stable funding. Because of all the new law that we are considering today, as we say, we cannot support. Regulation of the status of assistant is not a matter of establishing a working relationship under existing labour law, as it is a matter of establishing a special institute. The changes brought by the proposed novelties are not, in our view, complete. Thus, the arrangements for self-employment of the assistant are not implemented, nor are the financial implications based on real general data. We believe that the novelty does not bring improvements, and we do not support it in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u38	Mr President, representatives of the Ministry, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Good-bye. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act, whose solutions are intended to be the transposition of the entire regulatory regulation of this area back to the country, namely the regulation of the institution of a family assistant in the way that it concerns an employed person financed by the State within the framework of the social security service, the provision of minimum rights for family assistants on the basis of work and the financial exclusion of municipalities in the organisation of the institution of a family assistant, constitute very significant changes in the field of social protection. Amendments and additions to this law would have a major impact on the state budget, as they burden it with a high amount of over €10 million, if they did not take into account the monetary benefits of the aid and service allowance or slightly less or around €6 million per annum, assuming that they could cover slightly less than half of the minimum wage of the family assistant with the aid and service of the disabled person on average. Given that European Union law does not impose uniform arrangements on Member States for the institution of a family assistant, while the legal regime in the Republic of Slovenia is not fully comparable to the legal arrangements in the Member States of the European Union, we do not find it appropriate to intervene too quickly in the area of social protection due to the possible consequences of other areas. Because of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Social Protection Act, the Slovenian People's Party said, we will not support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u39	Thank you. Ms Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u40	Thank you very much. We have taken note of the opinion of the Government in the Group of Members, which was defined in the amendment to the Social Protection Act, which changes the status of a family assistant - these are more than family assistants, surely. What does the government say? The government states that it will regulate everything in the system law, the Long-Term Care and Long-Term Insurance Act, which is one of the most important tasks of the coalition contract, that is to say those contracts which regulated the situation to date, 2004-2008, and represents an important objective of the resolution of the national social security programme for the period 2006-2010. Please!? Today, eight weeks before the elections, he says, in fact, the Government confirms that the coalition agreement did not make it possible at a very important point that it did not implement the resolution either. After all, 2006-2010, we are in the middle of 2008. In short, if there is such an important law that has one of the most important cities in the priority of the coalition contract, why is it not there today and why we are dealing with another proposal today, which is perhaps not 100%, but is something that tends to lead to the solutions that the Government thinks, but because it is a project that obviously does not cover or is not directed towards such a broad target population that is interesting, on September 21st she did not confront it. And clearly, in the brochure we all know, in the blue-yellow brochure "Slovenia yesterday, today, tomorrow", at this point in the coalition contract there is neither the spirit nor the hearing. Clearly, because the subject has also not been regulated and, at the last moment, is trying to arrange it in a different way, of course, according to a government opinion imperfectly, because it thinks in the next coalition contract, perhaps, to regulate it differently, in short, with the law that is not in place in these four years. What do we say now? Clearly, this effort, which I say may not be 100% complete and leaves some open questions, is to be supported, despite the fact that some cracks may be opened. The Family Assistant Institute, we remember, was established in 2004. Here was made this leap, which we supported, in the way that he is a family assistant, I will tell the assistant, the person who offers the disabled person the necessary help in the family environment. So it is a family member, more or less, because he must have a family helper, an assistant, the same permanent residence as the person who is cared for or devoted to 24 hours normally. Of course, a family assistant is entitled to a partial payment for lost income, that is to say the minimum wage. As we can see here, the letter we received today on the bench, which concerns the opinion of the Bar Association of Ceferin on one other issue, amounts to EUR 524 and EUR 525 gross. It is compulsory to provide pension insurance, unemployment insurance and parental protection. However, in this case it is not a work relationship and therefore the person does not have all the rights under this heading, it is a regression, a sick leave and also a leave. What a problem has now arisen how quickly the Government has come to grips with the fact that this is such a non-systemic solution that the proposed novelty brings, because in the event that the family assistant will use this leave, to which after 24 hours of work a day it should probably be entitled, you know, what a problem this will be, because then this disabled person will be without an assistant and an assistant. It's a crazy problem now, and it's very good for you, as if you couldn't fix it. If this were the only problem, we would reach into the novel and help find a solution to this problem. In short, if there was a will, we would help to resolve what you are alerting to in this opinion, which exaggerates certain questions, and we could also be satisfied with this solution. Let me remind you of the well-respected government and all the others who are here, which you have, of this earlier opinion of the Bar Association of Cheferin, which was issued, I think February of the year. What he says when referring, of course, to another question, but what is important is this conclusion: The family assistant is therefore equal to institutional protection, but despite the fact that the disabled person is available for up to 24 hours a day, he is not in a working relationship and does not have the right to do so. That's right. The Constitutional Court, I don't think this is a previous topic, has judged the appropriateness of payment for lost income. But what does he say? While the legislator wanted to arrange the family assistant as much as possible in order to align it with an institutional protection regime which should provide the family assistant with the same status when employed in institutional protection and a reference to the equalisation of both arrangements only in the area where the state saves is not in place. If the legislator considers that there is now a current arrangement for the financing of a family assistant, it is a question of the municipality - a country in the dominant interest - then there is no doubt that it is also in the dominant interest of the State to compare the situation of a family assistant with that of regular employees in similar jobs, with all the rights and obligations arising therefrom. Equality cannot and must not only take place in areas where the state saves, but the State must reward the same for equal effort, care, assistance and work of people. We know that he is not equal, but that the assistant and assistant, because of all the circumstances, devote more effort to these people than institutional protection. A family helper is a person who devotes 24 hours a day to the caregiver. But what is important, if you allow, is to focus attention on a comprehensive or more appropriate solution, which will be a matter of future years, not waiting for 2012, as we have heard today. Please! Because I know that you will be "stammering" this proposal today, very military, like all the others who are still following in today's meeting, extraordinary sessions, let me remind you that we should be moving in a direction, indeed that the institution of a family assistant would be saved in a different form. After all, the practice in this mandate was enormous, since we have repaired and coordinated the system to such an extent, when it is completely imprecise and when it is necessary to work with it to get a partial or at least half solution out of it. It will be necessary to establish and ensure in future equal opportunities for all, to enable the social inclusion of all, independent life of all, taking into account the individual needs of individuals and individuals and to pluralise social security services. It's a job, we have it in Really mapped out in our program and we don't have any problems with it. Today we will probably support this solution in the majority, in the hope that more will be done in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! Let me conclude for the introduction that the DeSUS Group is the only government coalition party that we believe has sufficient understanding for the issue of the family assistant and, therefore, all the time since 2004, supports the necessary changes in the field of regulation of this institution. The other parties also find that it would be good to make a difference, but they are putting it in some hazy future. And this future is not really seen through this dense fog. We are not ready to wait indefinitely and forever. Therefore, the DeSUS Group will support this proposal. In doing so, it should be noted that the Government has said no to this proposal. The government said that this proposal is bad, that it makes it worse, that it is not good enough and that it is not complete. We are also among those who would like to ensure an integrated regulation of this area, but we do not have the opportunity to reach out with our hand in those drawers where a proposal for a law has been in place for several years that would regulate it in an integrated manner. And when it's not ready for this to work out in an integrated way, it just has to be done in pieces. I am convinced that at least part of those who represent the Government and sit behind me know what this is about and that they would very much like to implement this bill that we have in mind and that someone is preventing it. In connection with the bill that is now proposed, let us say that in the DeSUS Group we do not agree that it is a solution that is prepared for the door to the nose. Let us recall that in 2005 an unadopted parliamentary law was drawn up that dealt with the same issue: pay, burdens, and the fact that the status of family assistants or helpers has not been regulated. Even then, the government said no, the government said that the Members and Members who drafted the bill were wrong and did not have anything to say, not until the Constitutional Court had informed them of it by its decision. And he said that what the Government had written down in its rejections was not true, because it was primarily about reducing the financial burden of the state budget and where it even found that it was not a new institution at all, but rather a substitute institute if you remembered three years ago what the government had written down at the time. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that also because this law is not ready to decide on the door to the nose, as it has been said, but in the regular procedure, in the first reading, it is possible to remedy in these procedures those weaknesses which the bill still has in itself. And this is also the purpose of the procedures to determine what is the main ambition of the law, to determine what are the weaknesses, what kind of instruments are needed, so that what is best can be realized and what needs to be done, so that we do not really experience any negative effects that the Government also mentions in its views. We in the DeSUS Group will support this bill in order to further improve it. We support this because this eliminates discrimination, both discrimination against municipalities and discrimination against those directly affected by this problem. We believe that it is possible in the process to improve the situation for people with disabilities who can receive these services, and the majority of these are elderly, we believe that it is possible to arrange things so that they are better for those who provide a family assistant. We believe that it will be better for its family and that it will be better for the congregations, for this service, which is for its own good, has been financially poisoned. And let the country that poisoned it take these financial burdens back. When the new law comes into play, the one who will regulate it in an integrated manner will probably be supported by the DeSUS Group, whatever it will be in that future mandate, and by then supports the amendment of this law, which allows for improvement of the situation for the disabled and for family assistants.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! As a result of Article 2 of the Constitution, Slovenia is a legal and social state, I believe that both the Government and the opposition, if we look politically, care and wish to implement or respect this provision. Now, according to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Social Protection Act, it is encouraging that the Government is concerned that it will, as is said, prepare a law on long-term care and insurance for long-term care. Given that we all say that this is difficult matter, I also believe that, contrary to some other things that are difficult matter, others go faster than this. But regardless of how the government forms this new law for long-term care, there is someone who wants to speed things up, offer a hand and offer help. In this case, this is a proposal for a law that we have before us. For the first time, it's help and a deadline offered. Secondly, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, this is not in the sense of aid, but is justified by the facts arising from real life. We are indeed Members and we are obliged to read the articles of the law, to compare the articles of the laws, to respect the proportions of the laws, but sometimes it would be good if we put ourselves into life, quite simply in life. Doctors say, for example, for authentic children that the only cure is that parents deal with them 24 hours a day. Well, then, if he has, let's say we're talking about a family assistant or a parent who's willing and strong, and who doesn't have one for their child, quit the job. Yes, it is true that in the fact that, of course, all the burden has been passed on, the financial burden on a disabled person is that by law the congregation is the one who, if there is not enough money for a family assistant in view of an assistant, covers a difference. As you know, only one municipality since, I don't know, the 210s in Slovenia have been valorizing that difference with inflation. That's Nova Gorica. The other 209 don't. Another time. The municipalities are in different situations and so are disabled and family assistants, assistants in an unequal situation. Depends on where they're staying. Anyway, mom's going, she's home, and now we're there. Let's leave, we all did, or you hung yourself on vacations - yeah, how will he go on vacation if 24 hours. Let's just drop it. Let's move on. Maybe that's the kind of family that wants something else, something new. Let’s say that this disabled person is a cerebral paralytic or something, and this family also wants to help itself by having some more modern tools. Like a electric wheelchair or something that costs. And, of course, such a mother or father may be wiped out if there is not enough resources, under the nose of a bank loan, for example. And so on and so forth. Let us put people in the skin of those who are family helpers and helpers, and in the skin of persons with disabilities, to whom all the financial burdens have been passed, not least to the congregation. And we see that the state in this case, let's leave it to once and for which authority, put its hands aside and regulates it as it does. On the other hand, with all due respect to all those people who work in institutions that are designed to do so, talk about the home of the elderly and the nursing sisters, hospitals and so on. They have a hard time, with all due respect, working 24 hours a day, working two days at a time, three nights a week. But they have some status arranged, they are in some kind of working relationship, they have all the rights from this working relationship because they are also people. But they do the same work, so that I don't say the same thing, I can say the same thing if a person is the same, the same job as a family assistant or a family assistant. And now look at the status of their status under the law. I say again, with all due respect to all those who work in hospitals, homes and so on, but have all the rights, the family assistant, the family assistant doesn't have them. Do you think that is right if we look at and return - Article 2 of the Constitution, we are in favour of having a legal and social state. Socially, we take care of these people and legally means that we are legally equal in certain respects. For equal work - equal pay. We have talked about this, and we always talk about it, whether it's about equal pay. That is why we will not be perfect in the Slovenian National Party, and I will only support this proposal for a law which is in the first reading, which I certainly believe is not perfect, because, after all, a number of government laws from the previous or this mandate, we know who they had, I don't know, I will say, 70 articles, and later in the second reading they were amended by 80 amendments or 90. It means that there were laws that were completely worthless, but we fixed them with amendments. The goal is to help. The goal is to take all that is good, to take all that is bad, together with the Government, to pre-debate and possibly move faster together, to come up with solutions that the Government is supposed to adopt into the long-term care law or to determine this law so much as to help us at the next meeting, or either you will or you will be able to talk in the first reading of the long-term care and insurance law. So once again, let us put ourselves in the skin of those who experience this and consider how this is possible or not. And once again, don't make excuses for your vacation. He can't have a vacation if he's working 24 hours. There are other rights from work that a family assistant or an assistant does not have, but they want to enforce them with a proposal for a change law. While the government points out that it is not appropriate for family assistants to recognise certain rights from a working relationship because they are not working and then explain how and why. And if I stop at last only when we are one big family and one big country called the European Union, you have also had some indicators from other countries. For example, you can look at the case of Sweden, where a family assistant or a family assistant is, in fact, like a public agency employee. And if they've invented hot water somewhere, I don't know why we should. But they are also a legal and social state, like us or sometimes even better, on some sides. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a law because we hope that this will help us to solve the issue more quickly and more honestly, especially for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u45	Thank you. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Lipa Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u46	Thank you again very much for your word! As a bill-maker, I give an explanation to all those who claimed, but I do not want to argue that the law is ready quickly. That's not true. On 12 March 2008, the Section of Family Assistants and I visited the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. At that time, the Minister was informed of the key points that are now covered by the amendment of the Social Protection Act. From March 2008 to July 2008, legal professions were drawn up by people working for 25 years in the field of social protection. The Act, which is coordinated, including with the social profession, which is also aligned with the users of this social security service or operators, I apologize, family assistants, specifically with the President of the Family Assistants Section at the Social Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia. One of the coalition members of the largest coalition party said that because of the previous arrangement, when the family assistants’ services were fully financed, the municipalities would almost have been bankrupt because the attack on this institution was too great. And then the same government took the easiest and fastest way to save the congregations of so - called bankruptcy by shifting the burden on family helpers and disabled persons. It doesn't matter if these people are on the verge of bankruptcy, but it doesn't matter if these people are facing more social distress every day. We have heard several times that it is an unacceptable solution that ranks or gives family helpers rights arising from labour law because they would have the right to leave. This solution is unacceptable to both Mrs State Secretary and some coalition Members. Do you know what the right to leave means? Right to rest. 24 hours a day, night shifts, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Well, let me know if you don't deserve one day off. People who work as family assistants must leave the labour market, must not be employed and must do other work or, if they are registered as unemployed, must be written out of an active register or a record of unemployed persons. So they're people without a job. And the only job they do is help at home, help institutional protection, whatever it is, is run by a family assistant institute. It's their only job, the only job they don't even get a decent salary for. They receive some kind of compensation, which is, in reality, due to the harmonisation of transfers less than the minimum wage. And we went even so far as to burden the municipalities because they were on the verge of bankruptcy, that they had to pay their own family assistants for their work, to finance themselves so that they could do the work that the state, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and adopt this Parliament. Disabled people have to pay the difference from minimum net salary to gross salary from what they get as disabled people to buy, I don't know, I'll tell the diapers that they can buy the other supplies they need as disabled people. Children need to finance their parents ’ salary if they are to serve as family helpers. If the disabled do not have sufficient financial resources, they are obliged to pay the debtors, the other family members. And if the family helper does not have other family members or family members, they must even leave the property and transfer it to the congregation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the country has given people the opportunity to do their jobs, some kind of employment. What a job, no one knows because there is no legal basis for family assistants. Once taken into account as institutional protection, the second is considered as assistance to the family at home. Depending on what is better for the country in which it saves more. A colleague from the SLS said that the financial implications provided for by the amendment of the law were too great for the state budget. Approximately €6 million was calculated by economists. EUR 6 million if the number of family helpers were to increase again to 1,500, as they were before the start of the government change. And then they mass-returned the status, so today there are about 600 of them in our country, because they simply couldn't afford that burden. If we had 1,500 family assistants again, the financial implications for the country would be EUR 6 million. Just so much and nothing else. But you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, today I read the headline "The Fallen Referendum" will cost a million and a half euros more. But these are numbers, these are data that are not concerned about the government coalition. When we throw money out the window, nobody cares, but when we talk about people, about their socio-economic situation, the problem is €6 million. I wonder what's really wrong with this country, respected colleagues and colleagues. Allow me because I want to because I see that some people don't understand what it means to be a family assistant, what it means to care about a severely disabled person. A while ago, a 26-year-old invalid's mother visited me in my office, a guy with cerebral palsy who has to shower, bandage, store 24 hours a day, lift. Mother. The boy's 50, 60 kilos. Mr. Silva, who is with us today, takes care of his disabled wife. I believe that his work is no different as well. Mrs. Maja takes care of her mentally injured son, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Days ago or this year, thank God, she even took a few days' leave of absence, but she didn't leave the disabled child at home alone, so he wasn't on the worse side. She's taken care of him, she's put him in protective custody, corporate protection, because, thank God, that's what the state allows us to do. The mother's girl, who is with us today, has Rett's syndrome, very rare but severe mental and physical disorder. As a result of the disease, there are health and other problems in girls, such as stereotyped movements of the hands, which require constant assistance in personal care, feeding, clothing and play, seizures, osteoporosis and scoliosis, inability to verbal communication, girls are mostly immobile and immobile, often respiratory effects, problems in feeding, chewing and swallowing. Tell me, honestly and honestly, if a person who does this work 24 hours doesn't deserve one day of rest or rest. This girl is, and I was really moved, silent angel, she doesn't talk, she just shows if she's happy with it, because her mother can take care of her 24 hours a day, or maybe it'd be better if she was put in protective custody. Europe promotes alternative forms of social security services, care, assistance to people who cannot take care of themselves and need 24-hour care and assistance. And I, when I listen to the discussions of some of my fellow Members, believe that I am rightly afraid or worried that we want to favour the institutional protection of the total institutions from which we have made a move, not that they are bad, but that we have a more humane approach. And this is basically an institution of family assistants. But the changes were made because we had to save in 2007 in the budget, despite boasting a few months ago that we had a surplus, a budget surplus. We saved up. Family helpers receive €400 in compensation, in the fact that their work must also be financed by disabled persons or relatives. If we have offered this option, some kind of employment, then it is right and fair to give other rights arising from labour law. No one gets rich on this account, no one gets rich. We are still talking about minimum amounts, minimum wages or allowances. If you'll excuse me, dear colleagues and colleagues, just one more piece of information, I believe or I hope you'll consider this. The European Union is also proud of Mrs Marjeta Cotman, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and I regret that she is not with us again today, which was when they discussed in Slovenia during the Presidency on disability. The European Union has made it clear that people who provide social security services or so-called long-term care and care are the most burdened group of people, mentally and physically. With us today, however, the problem is whether we will allow these people a vacation, a rest, or a proper vacation, and it must be so that they must work without a day’s rest. I'll say, in a transferable sense, but you know, even the machine, if it's overloaded, once it dies and needs to be fixed. We're talking about people today. People who do noble work. They are not to blame themselves, and God forbid, God forbid that society throws them away and pushes them aside. I'm afraid that if you reject a proposal for a novel that is well-intentioned to land, I will say, on a government theory of killing social and human beings gently and on meals.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u47	Thank you. We are done with the presentation of the parliamentary groups. There is a general debate between Members and Members. I will call only those Members and Members who are present and who have not checked out, so on the list. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u48	Thank you very much. In the context of this discussion on the family assistant, the question of what is wrong with our country has also been raised that it does not understand that the issue and status of the family assistant need to be fully resolved, which offers and enables the proposal of this law. It is wrong to stop building beds in institutional protection and therefore to take care of them in other ways, it is said to be done at home, with the assistance of a family assistant and so on. Now, however, the government opposes this law and does not want to improve, otherwise likely shortcomings, so that one thing can be resolved to the end. We believe that the issue of spending taxpayers' money, which concerns this coalition and, given that Mrs Tavševa, would have said, attacked the coalition as a whole, it should be stressed that we are not the part of this coalition that blocks the regulation of this issue of the family assistant, and even less those who would have opposed the preservation of the social state, the protection of the elderly, the protection of those who need the 24-hour assistance of others, these are particularly difficult for disabled people and other patients who need health and social care. That is why we believe that this marriage is the one that can fix this matter. There's no way to solve this whole thing. The Long-Term Care Act is being prepared for too long, the nursing hospitals have not yet been opened to a sufficient extent and I fear that the distress of all those who need help and the protection of others, because they themselves cannot do it anymore, will increase. For this reason, our parliamentary group personally think that this law should be improved in further procedures with appropriate corrections to the extent that it would allow family helpers to have the same rights as other employees. In doing so, it must be said that the cost for a family helper is lower than that for those in nursing homes today, or the cost of a nursing hospital in Séžana. It is therefore incomprehensible that the Government does not support the regulation of this status in this way and is seeking excuses and difficulties in doing so, rather than looking for ways and solutions that would lead to better conditions, better results and benefits for the affected, the benefits for the family, the benefits for those family helpers who today, on a modest basis, do not have any other employees' rights and I think such attempts should be supported. I myself will never understand where the reasons are and where the excuses and consciences are of all those who oppose it only because they have the majority and they can do so. The majority used in such cases is cynical for me, is harmful and does not justify the situation in which the voters put them. The majority did not do so, but to act in favour of those who cannot help themselves, even in such a way as to address these most difficult issues of those who cannot themselves, have no opportunity, are unable to create critical masses of those who could force the country or decide who would take care of them in the coming years. And for that, he deserves this law's support, and he'll get it from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u49	Thank you. Mrs. Žgajner Tavš, it's your turn anyway. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Allow me to use my time as a proponent. I apologize to my colleague Žnidaršič if it was misunderstood. I must explain that Members of the DeSUS Group are also signatories to the proposal to convene an extraordinary meeting at which two proposals for a law will be addressed: the Social Protection Act and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. But there is one fact that cannot be ignored. And that fact is, believe me, very worrying. The fact that I have asked the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs on 27.12.2007 is a matter of concern. And I got an answer for him on 15.2.2008. Of course, it's a family assistant institute. And believe it or not, under this answer is signed by Mrs Marjetka Cotman, Minister of Labour. It is true and proud that in 2006 the Institute of Family Assistants, with a change in government, reintroduced the payment of services in this area, which is one of the fundamental principles of the Social Protection Act. If we have already listened to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia today, Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the content of this Article, which says that Slovenia is a social state, then by means of such logic we break the meaning of the Constitution referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution. The government stated that the basic purpose of social protection, the Social Protection Act, the payment of social security services, a respected colleague and a colleague. Dear representatives of the Ministry, Government! We have in our country from month to month more people facing poverty, social pressures. The social security system no longer provides adequate protection. I'm going to say that he's become more of a social hazard with high inflation. Pensions are also an important part of ensuring social security. But also in the area of pensions, the pension system, we can no longer talk about adequate social protection or security because human dignity is violated and human rights are violated. Poverty is a violation of human rights. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, blacklists and boasts that the main purpose of the Social Security Act is the payment of social security services. This means that those who have money in our country will be able to pay and afford social security services, social services, home care, home care. Those who don't have money and these people are getting more and more will not be entitled to these services. Please, once again, you have the opportunity to change the decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Allow the possibility of communication to supplement the law, if you consider it, in subsequent procedures with government amendments. I spoke to Mr Dominkus, Director of the Directorate for Social Affairs, who is with us today. I hope he won't be angry if I can honestly say that he assured me in the phone conversation that marriage is a good professional basis, but that everything depends on political will. I asked him because it doesn't matter to me that I'm signed under the law alone if he talks to the secretary, because I just can't get to her. To file a law together to prepare the law, to amend the ministry. Despite his promise of a phone call to this day, there hasn't been one. A similar promise was made to the Family Support Section at the Social Chamber. And this promise was also devoured. And if we all refer today to the long-term care law together, yes, I believe it's a good, integrated solution, a systemic solution. The Long-Terms Act, hand-to-heart, had too high financial implications and the government was unable to prepare and invest it in the parliamentary procedure. And the deadline for the completion and submission of this Act is set to 2012. Then it'll be too late for a lot of people. Today I spoke to another family assistant who said, "I just can't bear this burden anymore. If this law is not passed, I will be forced to return my status." Of the 1,500 family helpers in 2006, 643 returned their status within one year of the entry into force of the government proposal. Today, about 500, 600 people are serving as family assistants. This means that marriage is not the best thing. On the other hand, you have also received a legal opinion from the legal company Čeferin, which speaks of what needs to be done, what would be an acceptable solution and that even some government solutions, those in force today, contrary to the constitutional provisions, even if they set out the same law, the solutions that are in force are mutually exclusive. At the same time, you received on the bench the content of the petition for the organisation of the Institute of Family Assistants, which they began to collect as part of the Family Assistants Section at the Social Chamber. This petition was signed by 7,000 citizens and citizens. Will you also go through people, through civil society, through citizens and citizens, those who have given their voice and support to the demands for changes in the field of family assistants? 7000 petitioners requesting family assistants to regulate their status in accordance with other Slovenian legislation. They don't want to have more rights, they don't want to have a superstandard, they don't want to get rich, they just want equal rights, which is also constitutional. I hope you won't mind me, but earlier I was reluctant or willing to, however taken, listen to the conversation between the two Members on my left when a loved one, a member of the coalition party, the mayor of one of the municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia, that the person with the name and surname, who is the family assistant, is lazy. It would be hard to say that people who do such noble work as 24-hour care and help the disabled are hard to say that such a person is lazy. If we make such a assumption to start, think and support bad marriage solutions and prevent good marriage proposals from coming into line and perhaps even coming to life in practice, then God forbid the mandate of this government to be repeated.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Tomc has spoken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I take this opportunity, honored guests on the balcony, to welcome you also on behalf of the Government and in my personal name! I also remember some of you, because you were at my meeting where we talked, how and how you would best solve your problems. I therefore deny that the Government is indifferent to your problems and the problems you are facing. I personally acknowledge to you once again and express great respect for your work, and I hope that you will continue to do it with the same courage. But the proposed changes that are before you today, before us, do not solve this problem that you are talking about. In particular, they relate to the issue of funding, the transfer of funding from municipalities to the country, and several times the disproportionate distribution of burdens on individual municipalities has been mentioned, and because of this, as the proponents also say, disproportionately granted assistance to these persons, which of course is not true and I will continue to justify this. However, let me also tell you that the Government has taken a very responsible approach to analysing the situation in this area also on the basis of the conclusions of the National Assembly's home committee. She ordered an analysis, which was also made by the Institute of Social Protection. This analysis, which was produced, found that the family assistant institute, which is considered to be a positive solution by the institutions’ operators and users, which contributes to better quality solutions for people with disabilities who need help and care at home. At the same time, it is an institute that gives people with disabilities greater autonomy, which prevents social exclusion and raises the quality of their lives. However, how to address the needs of family assistant users is a combination of the ways used in most European countries. Of course, we are not saying that this institution and this area could not be improved yet. And it will be improved by the law on long-term care, which has already been mentioned here several times and which the Government has prepared and some professional harmonisation is needed. The year 2012, mentioned above, is very far away, but it is not necessary for the law to enter into force at that time that it may be in force earlier. This proposal, which we have before us today, promises a solution immediately, but if we look at when it comes into force, then you can see that this is in 2010. So not right away. With regard to the number or number of family assistants, I would like to give the government a more precise number, dating from 27. 5. 2008 On that day, there were 842 family helpers, while at the same time there were more than 100 interested persons or roles in the rescue and in recent times the number of family helpers after the fall in 2006. Regarding the financial effects, the government assessed or calculated at the Ministry to mean not EUR 6 million for the country, as the proposer points out, but on the same assumption that 1,500 family helpers are, that is, 7 million 700. At the same time, this is the case with regard to the financing and burden of the congregations. If the share for the financing of a family assistant in the municipality exceeds the appropriate spending laid down in the Community Finance Act, the State shall cover that difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u53	Thank you. Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs Tomcheva, with all due respect, but don't you find it embarrassing to meet at a million EUR 700 of state money. That's as much as you're gonna throw extra funding out the window because of the failed referendum on the provinces. And it is not true that the number of family helpers is increasing. Allow me to read to you the conclusion of the Court of Auditors' audit report, where they say, "...in obtaining data on the number of roles of individuals and the number of family assistants we have found that the Ministry does not have a clear view of the situation in this area." You don't have an update. This is the conclusion of the Court of Auditors. The Court's audit report also states that "...on the basis of data from the analysis of the functioning of the Family Assistant Institute, we can assess that the Family Assistant Institute has an important role to play in maintaining the quality age of persons with disabilities, since it is the right to choose a family assistant primarily for the elderly population of persons with disabilities." No one's going to deny it. No one has objected to this today. This is a positive solution. But they continue to say, "...at the same time, it is worrying that the amendment of the law in terms of the costs allocated to the municipalities for the implementation of the Family Assistant Institute has made it "substantially easier for the municipalities to finance the services, but at the same time it has made it more difficult for the users themselves, for whom the service was free by 2007." The service was free. You introduce the payment of services into the area of social protection, and this is bad because this limits the right to choose.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u55	Thank you. Mrs. Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! The Family Protection Institute is certainly one of the very good solutions for all those who need its help and who want to stay in the home environment. As for all those who are once free from one responsibility to parents, spouses, children, guardians, caregivers, or even today, in the home environment, and have a responsibility to them, whether it be solidarity or responsibility or a simple sense of conscience toward them. Therefore, to all those institutions of the family assistant, this legislation means something, too, because they have regulated pension and disability insurance, health insurance, unemployment insurance, parental protection insurance, that is to say, the use of maternity and similar things, additional insurance is similar to that of other employees, and the time they perform the tasks of the family assistant goes to their retirement or working age. The insured person’s contribution shall be paid by the family assistant for the care and assistance contribution and by the employer’s contribution to the municipalities. But marriage is not ideal and we would like more in Novi Slovenije. It does not allow regress for family assistants, vacations, rest, but, as has been said many times, these persons cannot be left without a family assistant if they go on vacation. I believe even the easiest arrangement would be pay leave or regress. It is likely that this law will still be on the wallpaper in the future and will need to be systematically regulated. But it will probably be necessary, not to solve things in general, but to solve them from case to case. In this session, I received a call which one lady warned me that it was necessary to resolve systematically, from the case of some parents having children in the institution, in school, and not so much 24 hours is available as is spoken all day. It's also a different degree of disability, disease and so on. However, I would like to point out one more thing, the legal anomaly or the inadmissibility that some people with disabilities or patients have for the same disease, for the same disability a 10-fold higher contribution than others for the same disease, from one address that they received many years ago. And that's not fair, that's not social. If this were to be done, family helpers could probably receive more contributions or minimum wages than they would otherwise receive, and both could be provided — both to those who need it and to those who do. So I think that this area will have to be settled in the coming term.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u57	Thank you. Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I myself see the introduction of a family assistant in 2004 by law as one of the possibilities for individual treatment of those persons who need the help of another person so that they can live as long as possible in situations in which they have been subjected to various forms and weight of disability. Of course, in every marriage solution, especially if it takes some time, it is possible to look for weaknesses and to try to eliminate what family helpers in this case offer with the conviction that they are being discriminated against. This very awareness that they are being discriminated against is also linked to the petition signed by individuals in different places as a general petition and to the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities in the National Assembly. In this context, we have also carried out a well-established procedure in the Commission to deal with the petition, and in the framework of our competences, we have tried to do what we normally do on other petitions. However, we have also met with the President or with the motivation of this petition, Mrs Lombardo, who is also an experienced person who, from his own personal experience, can tell you where the cores of the law are, has helped in all those procedures to get closer to solutions that would, however, indicate better and greater satisfaction and improve quality. It's about quality of life. So on the one hand, the quality of life of the disabled who receive help and those who offer assistance. And I see the problem with family helpers alone is that they have to be available 24 hours as a matter of course. But we are all human beings together, and every man needs rest, especially if he is to help others. It is therefore difficult to accept the previous debate that family helpers do not provide assistance to disabled persons for 24 hours, as previously said, because ultimately disabled persons can be involved in school or elsewhere, but this person must probably be brought somewhere else, taken away, taken away, taken away for something else. As it is said, things cannot be solved so easily that we say on average that some people get 10 times more help in this country than others. I'd like to see how many of those people are getting 10 times as much help. Nor is it likely that, at the expense of the mid-century, all the problems in this country cannot be solved in a negative way, such as by polarising. I think there are so few that it is not possible to solve the costs for the present. It's very easy for someone to take a lot away, and others, larger groups, that won't mean much improvement. Therefore, it seems to me that matters must be dealt with fairly and also with with what kind of information, when we have such solutions in mind, when we are likely to have a very specific person in front of us, we need to consider what this would mean in systemic solutions. In the case of a family assistant, as an alternative or a different form of solution to the need to help another person, I see a very large range of problems because if we have given a right, whether this right is also regulated so that the recipient, like the one who gives the aid, does not cause worse treatment. The family assistant was introduced to help the one who withdrew from the labour market and thus reduced the number of those who were among the job seekers most often as hard-working persons. Over the years, probably the harder employment rate has not decreased, but it has probably increased earlier. Therefore, it is necessary to look for ways in which some social security could also be provided to family helpers. And here I think the expectations of a group of family assistants are justified. And what I would like to add in this context and to end with this is that I do not agree that the bill can be opposed because this is a bill of parliament, because it has come about in a short time, because, as far as I am monitoring the problem, I cannot agree that we are facing a problem for a short time, but I would certainly expect that the discussions that have taken place between the various stakeholders, but also with some concrete solutions. And now there's a concrete solution ahead of us. I'm not saying it's flawless, but I'm saying it's the only one we have in the National Assembly right now. And that's why I intend to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. When we look at our social protection, we can also find out when we compare it with other countries, that it is decently arranged. It is true, however, that as a result of the transition from a socialist system to a market system, there has been no complete change in the fact that there are still some persons who are not adequately covered in this country. And we can rightly say that they do not have fair and just social security. Now I'm going to turn exactly to that, a family assistant and a disabled person. A disabled person has the right to such care and a family assistant to the web of certain benefits. I don't know if these are the rights of some benefit that he decides to take care of his family member. And on the other hand, we have some other people, old and old, I'll just say the old ones, who are also on hospital beds, who need just as much care, feeding them to turn them around, to ease their pain, because they can't see anything, they can't move anywhere. But these people, respected colleagues and colleagues, do not have the right to a family assistant. Is this also constitutionally contentious, or is it perhaps even more constitutionally controversial, or would it not then be necessary to put more pressure on the Government to adopt such a law, on behalf of equality and fairness, in order to treat it equally, before adding this arrangement to family helpers? I agree with my colleague that we should do better. And who wouldn't have allowed it, why not, because they could have decided to cut 2000 euros a month, and then they'd have to take care of all these things. I am sure that all Members are not one to oppose such. On the other hand, let us ask ourselves what we did for everyone else. And last but not least, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is also the burden of those who go to work every day, who earn 400 or 500 or 700 euros and pay all of us, and all of us, and all of these helpers, to care for, but at the same time, they have to take care of an elderly parent who is immobile who needs just such care. They pay for assistants, and they don't have these assistants. And so it is when we ask ourselves about righteousness. With regard to the law, what was done in this mandate. The use of the allowance for aid and service was triggered by the amendment of this law and the provision of financial resources to the municipalities in order to maintain this. This is the key change. And in the end. The Slovenian company is going in this direction of individual aid. If you want to provide real assistance to the immobile in principle, as is the case with working relationships, then you need four people. One person costs about €1,500 per person gross according to these minimum standards. We will ask ourselves, and I also want and expect the Government to come or anyone else with calculations, or we can provide this to everyone, to all the old immobiles, that they can stay at home, that we give them four helpers, that this standard is done as it should be. We'll put it on the table. And then we also have children, for whom it is also possible to provide a working relationship, many pensioners. It will be necessary to consider whether this company can withstand having in any family that has an average of three or four members, someone employed by the State. Every family when we go that way. And why Sweden and Denmark do not apply this consistently. But not because they would be unjust, but because they would not consider it good. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But apparently they're running out of money. [[...]] However, I agree with these certain solutions, but without making matters worse, what happens to family assistants after death. These things would then have to be amended, including the law tabled by Mrs Tavševa. I don't object to her proposals. However, I object to those who are making worse because they are not well thought out, so amendments need to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u61	Thank you. Mrs. Squire, did you get that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u62	Thank you very much. For the law is at first reading, so anyone who wishes to participate constructively in the proposed solution, thank God, I will say, has an open opportunity to table and propose an amendment if the law is suitable for further consideration. One important difference is in that policy or in the notion of society, in politics, I will say which is social orientation, the so-called "well fair" policy or society. And the policy that followed the neoliberal concept of so-called "work fair" theory, in the system that we had, was socially oriented, was an important man, important were his rights. In the system of this government, which is market-oriented, the so-called "work fair" system is no longer an important person and its rights, but is an important person only in so much and in the part where it is useful for the country. Once again, please consider whether a person is so little worth and not to talk about a thousand euros, two thousand euros that individuals, disabled persons, family helpers could receive. I said, marriage, family assistants don't want a super standard, they don't want extra rights, they want the same rights. They had to leave the labour market, the disability commission said they could do this job because they have a disabled person at home who is so difficult to move, mentally affected, that he needs 24 hour help, not anyone - hard to hurt. They have left the labour market, they are doing their job, so it is fair to say that they have the same rights as other people in the social security sector, in the framework of institutional protection and, lastly, in the framework of assistance at home provided by the State. It's just an equalization of rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. I must say that these last half-hours have heard quite a few such concrete points of view, moments of truth. We have heard Mrs Tomcheva from the Ministry, we have heard Mr Drobnič and also Mrs Tavševa there. I am sure, and I will support this too, that the proposed law remains in force. If we try to combine only these three graves or differing positions with amendments and additions, then we can get a good law, a law that will prevent abuse on one side, a law that will not have too much financial implications for the budget, and a law that will solve the plight of many in this country without abuse, and undoubtedly also save and regulate the status of family helpers. The fact is, as a society, we meet that we are a society that is older year after year, that there will be fewer and more miraculous solutions in the homes of older people, not under future governments, but just overnight. We all face the financial problem together, the problem of finance at personal, municipal and state levels. If we say so politically like, then cost, say, 7 million, that's the cost of about three floors. There is no doubt that we can give up three patriots at the annual level in Slovenia, especially since we are threatened by the fact that for this number of patriots we obviously want and need, we will not have, we do not have Slovenian soldiers, and we will certainly not hire foreign soldiers. And I am sure you agree that if we devote some euro less to the military and move it into the social sphere that it is easy and right to support. Of course, there are other problems, however, that we always have an abuse in the social spheres, which must not shed light on the whole system. And that's what this is all about. I'll give you an example. In the congregation from which I come, we deal with a relatively young person who is in one of the Ljubljana institutions in some form of protection. This congregation costs, says, and writes, EUR 1500 each month. So it will be 12 months a year and in the future it will certainly be another 30 or 40 years. If the person concerned were allowed a family helper for the purpose of taking illicit substances, the state budget and the municipal budget would be burdened. There I heard that one of my mayoral colleagues may have made some inappropriate remarks, but you need to know and here also insist on controlling that many who will be in the future if we are to spread this right [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Steba has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! In fact, what has been said before, the demographic structure, the family structure, the life of many generations, despite the longer life span, is no longer as common, in the relationship of these generations as it used to be, where this assistance in relation to family life, has been carried out, in many families, in many more burdened individuals with survival. Today, with much more free time and better earnings, these families actually live on rather than individuals. Even the grandchildren are no longer receiving that household, let alone old age. But also the result of the progress of a longer life. In some cases they will also solve this largely by volunteering, which was in fact at home. Society progresses, everything is somehow regulated and all services must also be paid in some way either by the state or by the congregation or by individuals. And the desire to enable family helpers in this case to improve their status, more rights, is legitimate. And I understand that and I kind of support it. But this should be arranged more carefully and more thoroughly. I am confident that the law that is prepared and that only the long - term care arrangements are needed will bring some good things to the family’s helpers. In fact, progress was already a change in the law last year, when certain weaknesses appeared. The number of family helpers has also dropped, and now their number has improved. Certainly, those who have the formal status of a family helper have significantly more of these financial satisfaction than many families, where this assistance is self-sustaining within the responsibility of these families to their family members, especially the elderly. I support this help at home, because it is essential that we talk about economic pay, that it is cheaper, and above all it is more essential that these people be provided with their loved ones. And this is certainly better than definitely a gradual departure if people go to or to a nursing hospital - it is supposed to be in Sežana - or into the home of older people. I also expect, I also know such cases, that the long-term care law will in some way solve and coordinate the issue of palliatives, says those people who are now in hospitals and are no longer treated by medicine to come into their home environment, if not otherwise, but can also go to the old people's home. This would be again, economically speaking, cheaper. However, the key advantage of such a solution would be that these people are, in fact, in their environment and in this environment, in some way able to make progress in this more complete personal life. However, since I also have experience with the assistance of handicapped, including the practical experience, I think that here we should look at the whole of those people who, due to health problems, due to disability, the consequences of health, to be treated in some comprehensive way, and that, in particular, they tend to live not only a full personal life in terms of personal satisfaction, some values they represent, but to try to be a creative and, in fact, a good member of our society, because it benefits everyone. This is how I accept this bill at this time as some pre-election activity, which is trying to create an impression in the public eight weeks before the elections, perhaps to stir up parliamentary life as well as public life. In some ways, however, it is wrong for me to excite people who are in some way affected by their health because of the circumstances they have in life. These are not just those people or family helpers, but here is the whole spectrum of social, health and so on. In a way, I think such initiatives and activities are a real opportunity for times immediately after the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Rezman has the word - he's giving up. Mr Kramberger, he's not here. He's quitting. Mr. Sok, too. Then Mr. Horvath, he's gone. Time's up. There are no more applicants on the list who are ready to discuss. Is there an end to the proposal, Mrs. Žgajner Tavš? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u68	Thank you very much. All for the end, dear fellow Stebeth. It's not about pre-election or empty promises. It is a law that we wanted to bring into the parliamentary procedure in 2006, when government changes to the law, which have made the socio-economic situation worse not only for the family but also for the disabled and the families as a result. Since 2006, yes [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The law came in 2008, and it could have been adopted, but at the time, the majority in the College did not support it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u69	Thank you. So all the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude I see one hand, but just in case I'm gonna file a report. [[...]] Anyone else you want can sign up. Mr. Saiovic, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Chairman. Before that, I was running out of time to finish certain thoughts. Obviously we have a problem, we need to find a solution, and the only solution is that the law, as it is, remains in the parliamentary procedure, and we are looking for appropriate amendments and additions to make this area, which is still important, definitively settled. Money cannot be the sole reason for us not to devote ourselves to this area. The area also needs to be improved in the field of records. We heard earlier Mrs Tomcheva, who served us, how many family assistants were there in May 2008. Today is July. It is necessary to establish such a system that when you open a particular field on your computer, we have this information. Therefore, it is likely that the lack of records or the difficulties in the records will be maintained. Also, the fact that EUR 400 is the sum that the congregations, the ministry and those involved would not be able to provide is beyond doubt. And, of course, timely action and not a word applies. The old peasant proverb says don't delay what you can do today. Today, I can do this by pressing the "yes" button to keep the law in the process, because we obviously have a few problems, some dilemmas that need to be discussed and found acceptable, good, not political solutions. I also simply estimate that in the congregation where I come from, there is a desire for a family helper. There are problems, there are problems, these will be more by aging, and the problem is not going to be delayed at some other time, but to approach a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Stebbe. Mrs. Žginer is cancelling. Mr. Stab, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. If the view was that the bill was adequately prepared and lacked some integrity and financial coverage, then the next government would also be dealt with in some way. I think that's what I'm trying to say is that the update depends on how social bodies work, or these social centres, commissions and communities that give their consent. That this is not a pre-election issue, however, proves, and to this I respond, these are Mrs Tavsheva's words that "The government works in the way of killing social and human beings gently and after meals. This was a statement in her debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u73	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the conclusion of the 6th item of the agenda, or at the latest at 1.35. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - First defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on death and disability under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members, with the first signed by Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš. With regard to this bill, a group of 12 Members and Members, with the first signed by Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš, demanded that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš, representative of the bill, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u74	Thank you very much again for your word. Also, this law or this law is, I will say, a fruit and a consequence of increasing warnings not only by opposition Members and Members, but also by the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance in the annual report, including the Alliance of Retired Persons and Peoples who say that they simply cannot live and survive through the month with such pensions. The Pension and Disability Insurance Office supports the adoption of measures to eliminate or at least mitigate the disproportionate reduction, the ratio between average net pensions and average net salaries, which occurred after the entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2005. In fact, the positive purpose of the law has also faded due to tax legislation, with net wages significantly higher than gross wages and even greater growth rates in 2007 and gross wages increased by 5.9% and net wages by 7.9%. As pensions align with gross salaries, this means that the net pension did not follow net salaries, making the pension real compared to salaries fall. And that's also visible on the screens. I hope this time people will be able to see the numbers and also the graph. Pensions are real behind salaries. You have seen numbers, numbers or even some of the most optimistic predictions, optimistic ones, say that by 2025 pensions will be only a good 50% of the average wage if we do not make a marriage and comprehensive change. In 2005, following the amended legislation and methodology, the average pension was 62.7% in 2005. In 2006, this percentage fell to 62.5% and in 2007 it was only 61.3%. In one year, therefore, the average pension fell by 1.2% compared to the average wage. Compared data from 2002 to 2007, pensions fell by almost 7%. I believe that this is enough eloquent information to make a change under the law. And we promise this change, or we have the opportunity to make it today. Well, I'm not talking about it. People just can't live with their pensions anymore. Retirement is a deserved right and as such should be sufficient for a decent life. I'll tell you the numbers. In 2007, there were 80 thousand 577 elderly persons who received a pension of less than 300 euros, thus not reaching 36% of the average Slovenian salary. More than 124 thousand pensioners have a pension of up to EUR 400 and half pensioners of up to EUR 500. If we compare the data, otherwise they are old in 2005, when the poverty threshold was set at 466 euros, what we quickly find that more than 200,000 pensioners today live below the poverty threshold when their existence is threatened? The proposed law, the amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance, will at least partially facilitate the situation of pensioners. For we propose that pensions be aligned with net salaries, which is more favourable for pensioners and would stop the trend of falling pensions. Last but not least, these are recommendations which are also addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. And last but not least, these are the appeals that [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also addressed to associations or associations of pensioners of Slovenia. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u75	Thank you. Ms Romana Tomc, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go, on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, honourable President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With regard to the proposed amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia assesses that the proposal for amendments to the text, as proposed, is not appropriate and that even pensioners on the basis of changes would not be in a better position. As the Government has already warned and warned on several occasions when amendments to pension legislation have been proposed, it is necessary to be extremely careful with all changes and to ensure that the situation of individual groups as a result of changes does not deteriorate, while the text of the articles must also be very clear and unambiguous. It is absolutely certain that the current relationship between pensions and salaries under the current system of pension and disability insurance will not change if the legislation which may affect this relationship does not change. Even more so, the current gross system is and will be more favourable for pensioners, as the progressive tax system will lead to greater movements in the movement of gross wages by transferring individuals to higher income classes in the future. In doing so, it should be stressed that the proposed changes to the system of coordination in practice cannot be implemented. For the average rate of taxes and contributions by which, in the pronunciations, "on net" gross wages due to the changed tax system cannot be determined during the flight. In addition, a recalculation should also be carried out and the proposal for a legislative amendment does not contain. Therefore, the proposed financial implications are much lower than they actually would have been. Due to the substantively incomplete solutions, the Government also assesses the material effects of the proposed amendment of the law as controversial. For these reasons, the Government therefore does not support these changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u77	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. Madam Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have repeatedly pointed out the inadequate treatment of those groups of the population most affected by rising inflation. If we were to think about things from this point of view, then it should be recalled that the Social Democrats have supported both the proposal for an amendment to the safeguard supplement and the recently adopted law on the dragan supplement. On the other hand, we have said that this is not a systemic solution, so we believe that more should be done precisely to ensure that pensions are coordinated in such a way as to avoid what is being pointed out by both the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance and others, namely that pensions are clearly lagging behind salaries. When the special letter was addressed to the Group of Members of the Pensioners, we have prepared a response in the Group of the Social Democrats, which was not like many things, which we say in the opposition has received much more attention, so allow me to present this answer to you: "In the Group of Social Democrats we are aware that the high inflation caused by the very high rise in the prices of basic living needs already threatens the material position of many pensioners. The Group of Social Democrats therefore welcomes all efforts to facilitate the material situation of pensioners, especially those increasingly exposed to the threat of poverty. Since the Government opposes this problem being addressed by the authentic interpretation of Article 150 of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, in the Group of Social Democrats we call on the Government to propose a one-time increase in pensions for the difference resulting from coordination with gross, instead of net salaries, in the adoption of a one-stop-shop supplement to the most vulnerable pensioners. The new tax legislation has also significantly changed the relationship between gross and net salaries, and thus the relationship between salaries and pensions. With the exceptional harmonisation afforded by a special law on a proposal from the Government, adopted under an emergency procedure, this relationship could be restored without risk of endangering the agreed system of coordination of pensions with gross salaries from which contributions and taxes are paid. Such a solution would only constitute a one-off intervention, as the relationship between salaries and pensions would not change later." As it is said, this is the written statement of the Group of Social Democrats, written on 3 June. If the government then tried to listen to the initiative that we have taken to draw up the law, it would not now be obvious that the law of the Member is a reality or a prediction in a way that is not acceptable to the Government. It is precisely that we have called on the Government to draw up a legislative proposal on its own, with the single harmonisation of the detention to eliminate the difference, and for the future to ensure that the differences are not increased, that we have also supported the inclusion of the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, or that we have supported the proposal to hold a general debate on the proposal for a law. But we are very aware of the social democrats in the area of pensions, which is intended to ensure the safe age of all generations, so we have devoted a special chapter to this issue in the alternative government programme, while at the same time defending those positions that would enable current pensioners to maintain their quality of life, so that their quality of life does not diminish, so that the difference between wage growth and pension growth does not increase, so that pensions do not decrease, which is happening so far, while we are aware that for future generations there is a need to prepare such a pension system that will also guarantee them the enjoyment of this right, which we see as a right not as a social transfer from work. It is important to follow demographic movements, stressing that a long-lived society is not only happening in Slovenia, but in the European Union as a whole, and it is necessary to ensure such a system, where we will not only talk about problems, but also where we will talk about a durable, sustainable pension system that will guarantee, highlight, the quality of life. Solidarity between generations must be the one that will ensure a safe age. We will, as we say, support the draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u80	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr President, Secretary of State! The new law provides that its adoption would prevent a further relationship between pensions and salaries, mainly caused by the amendment of tax legislation. As a solution, the applicants propose that pensions be aligned with the net rather than gross salaries. This is a wish expressed when we discussed the authentic interpretation of the law or article 150 of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. The applicant now adds the text in the first paragraph of Article 150, which specifies that pensions are to be aligned with net salaries, i.e. with salaries reduced by taxes and contributions. In the Liberal Democracy and in the Liberal Democracy Club, we then opposed the authentic interpretation and proposed that the matter be governed by law, which we thought was much clearer and right. However, we did not say at that time that this must be done in the proper way. The problem is that pensions are actually falling, it is said that pensions are getting fewer and fewer, that more and more people are threatened, that poverty is approaching or are already transgressing, and that it is certainly one of the tasks of the state to calm these matters, to calm or to establish such a system that it does not. Pensioners were injured at that time because the institution did not take into account the fact that pensions could be charged in net amounts, since they had to be dosed by law, coordinated according to gross wages. The Institute has abandoned its former practice of taking into account implicit taxation of pensions without having a legal basis for this. We must say that it does not comply with the reference to the law due to changes in tax legislation. But anyway, the situation in this area is worrying. Retired ones certainly want the matter to be resolved in such a way that there would be no concern from month to month about what would happen. Hence, the company or association of societies suggested that pensions be linked to net wages. But it's a big question of what this bond means. Does the pension system or does it not or does it pose a threat to it more than the former one binds it to gross wages? Experts note that this also in some perspective requires such corrections to the pension system in order to remain sustainable. We are also reminded of this by the European Union. However, given that tax legislation has changed this way and that it has not taken into account all the possible consequences again, it is said that there is a partial solution again in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia that we have decided not to oppose this bill, but of course we do not support it with enthusiasm because all the consequences are not clear and in some segments we feel that they can in fact cause even more of a backlog of pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, once again a very nice greeting! In the new Slovenia we insist that we continue to foster intergenerational dialogue in Slovenia. This means, among other things, that we establish genuine respect among the active, this is an employed generation, and among the pensioners. We have already talked a lot about the valorisation of pensions in this mandate. We also spoke about four years ago, during the pre-election period, when we calculated that pensioners were deprived of their previous term due to poor coordination for two and a half pensions. We have committed ourselves in the coalition contract to make this anomaly very quickly, to realize this unsustainable anomaly and to eliminate these anomalies. We actually did this right at the beginning of 2005. And let me remind you that the change in the way pensions are valorized in 2005 was a novelty of the 1F Pension and Disability Insurance Act, that this valorisation had a major impact on the amount of pensions. In 2006 and 2007, pension growth, measured by changes in the minimum pension base levels, followed the full growth of average gross wages. Thus, the average gross salary paid for 2005 was higher than in 2004, by 4.8% and the average minimum pension base by 4.3%. For 2006, the average gross salary paid was higher than the average in 2005 by 4.8%. The average minimum pension base was 5.1% and for 2007, the average gross salary paid increased by the same percentage as the average of the lowest pension base by 5.9%. To really insist that we have a genuine intergenerational dialogue in Slovenia, we have also demonstrated by the facts, lastly by the amendment of the law on the protection allowance and the law on the single pension supplement, when we wanted to relieve pensioners with the lowest pensions the negative consequences, the negative effects of inflation that affected the whole of Europe. This proposal, which we are currently considering, is actually a congratulations from the opposition dictionary to this government that, by amending tax legislation, it is less favourable for employees who receive wages to become the net salary/gross pay ratio, given the period before our last tax reform; hence, the same or equal gross salary is due to a higher net salary. We in Novi Slovenija note that any amendment of the law to article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, as proposed by the Group of Members with the first signed by Barbara Žgajner Tavš, would be amended in a manner contrary to the text of the proposal of Members with a view to change. If the objective is to align pensions with net salaries, rather than gross wages, as set out in the applicable legislation, the provision should be clearly drafted by explicitly quoting net wages. Gross wages reduced by the average rate of taxes and contributions do not mean net wages, but rather so-called grudging gross, resulting in a different amount of the average wage. The ones we have calculated in life, of course not on hand, at least 800,000 individual monthly wages, we understand that very well. I'm just speaking from a practice that's been confirmed. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act provides for the amendment of the first paragraph of Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. It is proposed to harmonise pensions with salaries reduced by taxes and contributions charged and paid from salary to average in the Republic of Slovenia. The aim of the amendment is, of course, to prevent changes in the relationship between pensions and salaries caused by the amendment of tax legislation in favour of a higher net salary. The applicable provision of Article 150, paragraph 1, of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which provides for a way of coordinating pensions, is clear and unequivocal. The meaning of the term 'pay' is defined in Article 8 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which provides that 'pays the remuneration on the basis of the working relationship from which contributions for compulsory insurance are charged'. So it means a salary of gross value. Under the law, pensions are coordinated according to the growth of the average monthly gross salary paid to employees of legal persons. The proposed change in the way gross wages are counted cannot be realised. The amendment to Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act proposed by the amendment would introduce amendments in a way that would be in fact contrary to the text of the proposal by Members and with a view to amending it. If the aim of the amendment is to align pensions with net salaries and not gross wages, as set out in the current legislation, the provision should be clearly drafted, as it is said, with an explicit statement of net wages. The question of the interpretation of the term "pay", i.e. whether it is a gross or a net salary, was already raised in the legislative procedure for the adoption of the amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance in 2005, as well as in 2008 at the time of the adoption of the Law on the Protection Supplement, the Law on the Single Pension Supplement, and finally at the time of the consideration of the draft compulsory interpretation of Article 150 of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. In the New Slovenia Group, we also follow the opinion of the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service this time to pay as a gross salary. The proposed amendment and amendment of the law cannot thus be supported because, among other things, we cannot support new, so frequent and reckless wage definitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u84	Dear Vice President, distinguished representatives of the government, Members, Members of Parliament, a nice greeting! The proposed amendments to the Group of Members should aim at preventing changes in the pension/wage ratios caused by the amendment of tax legislation, which should be achieved through coordination with the growth of net wages. They therefore propose harmonisation with wages, reductions in taxes and contributions, which are charged and paid off at an average rate, and this does not, in our opinion, correspond to the purpose they wish to achieve. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we agree that the Slovenian pension system must be established on the basis of the principle of fairness, taking into account the different conditions of retirement before and after the 1999 reform. In the last 15 years, the ratio between gross and net salaries has not changed. However, the change in the way pensions are valorised in 2005 has a major impact on the level of pensions. In 2006 and 2007, pension growth, measured by changes in the minimum pension base levels, followed the full growth of average gross wages. The government believes that the current gross pension scheme is even more favourable, as we have a progressive tax system that will have an impact in the future on the reallocation of individuals between income classes, where growth is prescribed only on the basis of inflation, so we believe in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the proposed changes to the new system of coordination or the old way in which wages are taken into account cannot be implemented. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the link between the growth of pensions and the growth of net wages instead of gross growth in the future would not have had a positive impact on the amount of pensions if they had not previously amended tax legislation. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the proposal for amendments before us is not well thought out and is more or less about political marketing before the elections and not about the real possibility of improving the coordination of pensions. Therefore, and due to the above arguments, the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party does not appear appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group, we really respect the efforts of the parliamentary group or the proponents of this law, but we do not respect the principle or we do not advocate the principle of just before the present, so to speak, at the end of our session, if I may say so, we are pursuing laws that radically interfere with the system, especially because they are not the product of some professional consensus or agreement and at the same time interfere with our future to a large extent. It is not just this law, but it is another law that has been brought to the chorus and that has no prior thorough agreement. Of course, it does not sound good to express certain doubts about such conduct. After all, it is a view of the pension system, which is not good or which is currently not good. But at the same time, we believe that in an extraordinary session, so to speak in the last sitting, without opinions that would be relevant and which would take a broader view than just that wish presented and to which no one would mind, is very good. It will not be the first time that I say that it would make sense in the future that radical changes in the system just before they start in the country are not to be supported. Even in the previous term, I believe that almost half a year, if not more, there was no opening before the elections of painful or budgetary wounds. On the other hand, we ask ourselves, the president of the pensioner's party, however, without exercising his eyes, is buying a huge ship that will not be tied anywhere, nor set up anywhere, which will not even be able to "restraint" without falling into another rock, because it is so huge and so unnecessary, but to this solution that we now have before us, but has not come, although one would say that it costs one wheel or one of the "auspuch" patriots. However, the law that we have before us is intended to have a goal or aim to improve the material situation of pensioners, as it eliminates the falling of pensions in terms of wages, the imbalance between the growth of pensions and wages, and, as we have heard earlier today, the pension should be re-coordinated with net salaries, i.e. with a more favourable form. At this point, it is worth recalling that we have adopted marriage solutions this year that would reduce the consequences of high inflation, especially those with lower incomes, including pensioners, but for the pensioners, this was a jeweler's allowance. But at that time, we discussed a unique increase in pensions, in contrast to the difference resulting from coordination with gross and net salaries, i.e. those known to two percent. This would be a one-time measure that would ensure greater security and easier survival for pensioners at the time of increasing the cost of living needs, as stated at the time of inflation. But changing the system, which is not the first in this mandate, to quickly, without harmonising and taking into account demographic images and projections and alerting domestic and foreign experts, may be questionable. However, it is necessary to have very important data in front of the eyes, namely that the proportion of people aged 65 and over by 2050 should double from current 15% to around, say, 30%. And that the index of the ratio between the population aged 65 and over and the population aged 20 to 64 is expected to increase from the current 24% to 2050 to 57%. But if I mention Eurostat's projection, even 60%. And we must take this data seriously and take them into account, with any changes, of course, in the socially acceptable provision of social security for today's pensioners. And with the long-term sustainability of the pension system in the future, of course, taking into account the implications for public financial stability and inter-generational solidarity - I stress, inter-generational solidarity - it is necessary to identify and harmonise more appropriate valorisation of pensions. There's no doubt about it. By reducing last year's income rate, net wages increased on the same gross wages. And since the level of valorisation is the lowest pension base for the valorisation of all pensions, experts believe that the same should be done to valorise the lowest pension base. The lowest. Thus, the relationship between a net salary and a net pension due to income changes would not deteriorate. In short, we will need a new system of valorisation, but we should also increase personal savings for today's pensioners as well as common savings, assets that are still under-transferred to the capital company, to the reserve fund, etc., if I summarise some social insurance experts who also participated in the current pension scheme. It is also known that Europe does not impose on us and determines how to determine pensions to be chosen by each country, but it is relevant to look at practices and in Europe that there is almost no country that would reconcile pensions with the growth of net wages, with the exception of Germany and Austria, while most other countries align their pensions with price or cost of living, or at least with the combined wage and price growth index. And if I turn around, I think it is relevant to quote or turn around in the positions of our experts in the area of pension systems, they acknowledge that there are quite a strong impact of pension reform adopted in 1999 in terms of relative backlogs of salaries and that possible measures should certainly be considered and taken very seriously, but in the same breath they recommended to the Government, even when these discussions were particularly open, that the change in mode of coordination should certainly be considered and strongly discouraged such systems, which are thoughtless or which would also go in the proposed direction. This has been said since 2005 when we started to reconcile pensions with gross salaries, because we know that we had previously coordinated partially with wages, partly with the rising costs of living needs, but it is true that inflation has done its job and is now the most deeply affected, but, as it is said, it is also necessary to have our unfriendly demographic picture before our eyes. In the Group of Members, indeed, many of us will support this proposal; we do not guarantee that we all, in principle, oppose the swift, with a wider, not just the professional public, the uncoordinated solutions that at this time resolve any question, but do not answer for much, much further. It is true, however, that much further systemic solutions will be possible soon when a different dialogue is possible following new situations after September.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. The Director, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u88	Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished government representatives are not, because they are not, I'm sorry. In the DeSUS Group today, we will support the changes discussed on the pension system. We supported what we are considering today at one of the previous meetings of the National Assembly, even though the authentic interpretation of the reconciliation of pensions was problematic due to systemic issues. With this proposal, however, we can realize what was not achieved by authentic interpretation at the time, and we hope that this time the way of implementation of the pension system will be enabled. The average monthly gross salary for 2007 increased by 5.9, compared to 2006, while the monthly net salary increased by 7.9%, representing a 2% difference. In addition to a different increase in pensions compared to wages which have increased net due to changes in tax legislation, different levels of harmonised ratios are also due to different valorisation factors, which means that some pensioners are even reduced twice. Valorization coefficients are accepted by the law passed through the law, and every time a piece of pension can be discounted there and then, of course, generously recognises the growth of a pension with a salary, but it is already essentially lower and no one, by law, can calculate his pension even if he has a college education. It turns out that pensioners have actually been reduced from net to net wages in order to harmonise all tax changes, resulting in an increase in the drop in pensions according to wage growth or a decrease in the comparable purchasing power of the retired population in relation to the active population. This is, of course, the impact of high inflation, which is why this year's changes in the area of protection allowance, social transfers, the Danish supplement are positive, because they reduce these adverse trends, but of course, at least as far as the Dragan Supplement is concerned, it is a matter of short-term impact, and we are thinking about long-term ones. The fear of poverty and the growing lack of money confronts an increasing number of pensioners in their monthly lives. More than half of the pensioners, that is 52.9%, have the same pension or less than 500 euros. It's April 2008 data. During this time, there were fewer pensions than the average of 36.5% of all pensioners or 89.4% of all pensioners have lower benefits than the average net Slovenian salary. The reality, therefore, clearly shows that this systemic problem needs to be heard and, in the first place, addressed at least the imbalance between pension and salary growth, which requires reclassification of the current mode of coordination of pensions according to the changed socio-economic characteristics and the changed tax system. Of course, there are other steps that need to be taken: to address the issue of the revalorisation of the pension base, this is a limitation of the decline of the revalorative ratio in order to ensure that the pension system is stable in the long term, socially sustainable and fair and to follow the changing economic, demographic conditions and to ensure that the human being is in a position of every generation of pensioners and every individual in this category. Pensions are earned, based on work and paid contributions and do not in essence constitute a social and economic category. In the DeSUS Group, we therefore believe that the present ones will decide to support this law, which can be properly drafted with an amendment or supplement, in order to solve the problem that arises. Of course, it is not insignificant to say how, for example, the President of the Government imagines solving the problem. That's what he said at the seniors' meeting, it's called retirement from the SDS party. "The previous Government passed the law on the backlog of pensions for salaries in 2001," this is published in the notes in Del. "Two average wages and a half you've lost your pensioners. This is coming back in this term." I say immediately that those who say that pensioners have lost two and a half pensions since 2001 because of different coordination speak the untruth of not using any harder word. Less than two average and a half wages, as stated by the Prime Minister of the Government. As far as returning to this term of office is concerned, I ask the President of the Government or one of the SDS parties or someone else in this room to tell me who this is coming back to. First, if this is coming back, more is coming back than there was a reduction in pensions during that period, and secondly, it obviously only goes back to some and, of course, not so that we know about it. We don't know about this. There's no coming back. No one has received two average and half wages for this term, nor will they receive them with this one-off allowance, and less than two-and-a-half pensions. And you have to accept this as a reality, because pensions have been lagging behind in this mandate or since then, not in this mandate, since the changed mode of coordination, about 7%. And no more in those five years. I can't say two and a half pensions, not two and a half average wages. I mentioned this because it seems to some that you are very easy to spend among pensioners of fiction, which would naturally give us the impression that we have worked very hard. We have indeed entered into a coalition agreement to align pensions with salaries, and this is what is happening. However, pensions are still lagging behind for a simple reason because February harmonisation, which relates to the previous year, is charged only for January. The calculation should reach 13 months ago in order to follow the principle of harmonisation of salaries with pensions if I deduct everything else. It is true, however, that after the adoption, the amendment of this law to gross wages began to count the salaries of S.p.'s, which were significantly lower and significantly reduced that level of gross wages, of which the corresponding percentage was to be obtained by pensioners then through the valorisation method. This has also led to a certain delay, which is why pensions are still lagging behind, and in particular, average pensions are lagging behind for average wage increases and have reached an incredible 61.7%, which is unacceptable, and if nothing else, we should install a fuse into the pension system and the law so that the average wage cannot be reduced from one percentage to the average pension. Because the Dragan supplement is proof that the pension reform and all other elements within this system have gone too far and that the situation of pensioners in these years is rapidly deteriorating to the situations in which a single Draganj allowance has to solve the problems that have accumulated, so any other intervention into the system is necessary and therefore we support any such attempt to improve the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u89	Thank you very much. On the balcony are students, their teachers, parents of the Slovenian school from Hamilton, Canada. Nicely greeted, at the same time well greeted Mrs Darinka Ferletič, their principal. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] We're moving on. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, we are considering another law within today's framework, or a proposal for a law amending it - and what should we say about another - thank God that we are at least addressing it. Undoubtedly, this is the treatment and all the changes in pension legislation that we have already experienced, whether we have a mandate or we are two, or those that are one term in the National Assembly. And as my predecessor said, the additions, which are more and more, prove that pensions are a major problem. In fact, if we're being very honest, there's a big problem, basically, already with wages. Unfortunately, the State of the Republic of Slovenia, with all due respect for our efforts and work and equations at the European level, we are, as far as wages are concerned, so far as we are concerned, that we will talk more and more about wages in the same content and form. Wages are a basic problem because they are low compared to Europeans, and this is very low. And then the wages are the basis for pensions, and then we're where we are. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance seeks a rescue plant. The rescue plant is looking for because the data we see in the comparison of wages - the pensions we see from 2000 to 2007 clearly show how old, disabled and family pensions fall compared to salaries. Now to speak, or as the Government says, that if we calculated as proposed by this bill amending the law, it would be even worse, etc. I'd like to see this evidence, and then I'll believe it, but for now, I believe that the retirement pension in 2000 was 75% of the average salary in 2007, so in seven years, and only a few more in 60. The fall is obvious, and so is the case with the disabled, and so is the family pension and this data. And if we take this trend, we can quietly calculate when we get to zero, actually, zero. I fear that if not the children we have seen, I mean Slovenia, these ages, at least they will no longer be pensioners at all, irrespective of our intergenerational agreement. We would also like to see in the Slovenian national page the calculation of the other side. Then it's easier to compare and say and say who's right. However, it is true that, again, I quote my predecessor, he said that there should be a limit to where pensions should no longer be reduced under any circumstances. For I come again not from the letter of the law and the article, the number of the articles in the law, to the real life. Everyone who's studied in high school or in college, you know what's good. Goodness is not only bread and water, bed and roof, good things are also cultural goods, and good things are health. In view of the increasing number of older people, health expenditure is also slightly higher. Pensioners for 40 years of work, any holiday, of course, belong to them in a health resort, belonging to them to the theatre of performances, operas, concerts. With what? With 400 and a few more Euros? By looking at how difficult life is for young people today. They don't have social security, they get a job very hard, they don't have housing - and who are the young today? The older people again, the pensioners! You can't ignore that either, colleagues and colleagues. If we are slowly creating a social system for young people and want to help, and we are obviously not doing this, I will return to the last treatment when we wanted tax relief for housing - now this issue in all the media right now - you see that at the time was a proposal made by Mr Friday and we have absolutely supported it, but let us leave it. All these social problems for young people, how to survive to the first job, where to survive, if two people love each other, or if even a family, how to survive without a job?Oh, my God! Everything on the shoulders of the elderly, the pensioners - the people who earned it after 40 years - earned the means for normal survival. Not to mind theaters, cinemas, concerts, treatments, or anything else. It would be good to see what coordination with net salaries means to have such an overview of what would have happened in those years, and then, of course, we will believe the Government, which says that comparison, as the real proposal of the law, is net - worse. Due to the change in tax legislation, of course. I believed a lot in 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, but all the data and everything I believed went down. So mine, that I believed, went down in parallel to the numbers that went down. So in this case, if we don't already have some statistics, if we don't have any experiments, let's at least support what we're trying to do. We're gonna see a mistake one way or another. What's the system of falling through the gross system, we see what's going to happen on the net if it does - and we'll see. The result is going to be the same anyway, maybe not, maybe even better.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u92	Thank you very much again for your word. More or less, we are opposition MPs with the work of the coalition, members of the DeSUS are united: pensions are not aligned, they are not growing equally proportional to wages. Pensions behind salaries are lagging behind. From 2002 to 2007, pensions, in real terms, were almost 7% behind salaries. With the fact that in 2007 we had 6.4% of inflation at annual level, with inflation still rising, despite the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, although modified or precisely due to the changed methodology of calculating the valorisation coefficient's pensions, it is set by the Ministry of Finance, it is smaller and lower each year. These are data, respected colleagues and colleagues who say that pensioners have less funding per day per year for monthly survival. I do not think about it, so this law did not just come about, but it is the fruit of months of coordination, talks also by the Slovenian Association of Retired Persons, and the union has also warned, the pension union, that pensions must be coordinated with net salaries, because this is more beneficial for pensioners. Finally, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance in its annual report also warns that there has been a change in the law, the amendment of tax legislation and the specific methodology for the reduction of pensions compared to salaries, and warns or directs the Government if you want the law to be changed systematically; systemically in this work, there will be a different way of harmonising pensions with net salaries. Before, I think that for a month we have considered the authentic interpretation of Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which was submitted to the parliamentary procedure by Comrade Drobnic. Comrade Drobnic wanted to record clearly and loudly that pensions are in line with net salaries, because this does not come out of the law, but it is a matter of good will or instructions that they receive at the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, because they have taken that simpler rule of play and pensions simply align with gross wages, because it is more favourable to the budget or the pension fund and because on the other hand it is less favourable for the pensioners. At that time, the explanation of the Legislative and Legal Service, including the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, was that the proposed solution was not subject to authentic interpretation and the content should be adopted within the framework of the law. Today there is a law to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has negative views or concerns because it says that the proposed solution would not have positive effects for pensioners. It surprises me; in the interest of whom are the disabled acting, or I apologize to the organizations, societies and associations of pensioners; in whose interest is the pensioner's union working? For everyone advocates the proposed solution, the alignment of pensions with net salaries, because it is currently the only solution that can be taken through a rapid procedure that would stop the trend of pension decline. I believe that this is not a long-term solution, I believe and realize, but in the absence of a government strategy in this area it is the only possible solution. We addressed specific proposals to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the context of the Lip Group. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should establish a comprehensive demographic policy in our country. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should accede to legislation to stop the further decline in old-age pensions compared to the average salaries of employees. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia should examine the development of a programme to gradually increase average old-age pensions in proportion to the average wage, prevent further systematic reduction of the basics for which contributions to pension and disability insurance are paid and the legal arrangements for defining the basis for limited contributions, and so on, not to mention everything. But none of these specific requirements have been met within the mandate of this government. Not a single, respected colleague and colleague! I will say that a mistake or an unrealistic reference to so-called scarrings or pre-election sweets, which some have named all the measures that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia started to take following urgent procedures in January 2008: a protective supplement, a dragan supplement, this month I think that the Danish supplement should be paid as some necessary measure due to high inflation due to the poor social situation of pensioners. These are short-term solutions, it's just a wound patch, the wound will heal, but in September, October, there will be a new greater wound because the government does not have a systemic solution in this area. Economists point out that due to the lack of a government strategy, due to the lack of measures in the current term, immediately after the elections, a serious approach will have to be taken to the changes in the pension system, as this will simply not go any further. Not to run out of money in the pension register, for it is simply that people will not be able to live with the financial resources or the amount of the pension they receive. I mentioned earlier that there are more than a quarter of pensioners who receive a pension of around EUR 400. And tell me, can a person work his whole life, believe he's doing a decent job, living with 400 Euros of pension? No! No! We've come so far that people simply can't pay extra health insurance anymore. Yes, the government has just before the end of its term of office adopted a law that will help people in a selective, socially vulnerable situation and will pay for supplementary health insurance. But not today -- two years from now, or I think early in 2009. But selectively. This is not a solution, my respectable colleagues! Retirement is a right. Retirement as such must be sufficient, without social adjustments. Social corrections, such as a protective allowance, can only be an exception, but this exception, unfortunately, is now becoming a rule. And you know, this rule, I'm going to say, has also fallen into the water in 2007 - to remind you of those who like to brag or beat your chest, how much you've done for pensioners and other socially disadvantaged categories in our country. In 2007, some 20,000 pensioners, those who receive the lowest pensions, were deprived of the protection allowance for a few euros. There were around 16,000 pensioners who even lost the right to a protective allowance because social transfers had frozen and there was a different coordination, such as coordination with pensions or salaries - pensions with salaries. In January 2008, the Government adopted the Protection Supplement Act. Returned or granted the right to a protective allowance to those persons who were deprived of it in 2007. But you know what is sad and shameful for this country - that, from January to late August 2008, not all beneficiaries of the protection allowance paid due to long-term bureaucratic procedures still have. And then you're shitting yourself with a precious supplement! At the same time, the Prime Minister says we are the beacon of the 21st century. The President of the government at the same time as Triglav sees, I will say, in the future, a bright future in 2012! Yes, dear fellow Jeraiev, it is a problem! The problem is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not have a long-term strategy in the area of the pension system. Because the President of the Government is on the question: What is the Government's long-term strategy in this area? minimised the problem on two tables. And he didn't pay those two bills, he didn't pay the other bills that came to his address! In return for this, the pensioners who receive the pension are sent for social assistance to Karitas and the Red Cross - in letters, in response by the cabinet of the President of the Government of Slovenia! There's no answer! But it's good to brag and - yes, it is, you can see it so far, but unfortunately not all people live so high. The proposed solution under the amendment of the law on pension and disability insurance is also the fruit of what they warn and by which they appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in, I mentioned already, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia and, last but not least, the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia. The proposed solution is the only possible solution at a given time, with which, in the short term, I believe that, in the short term, they have stopped the trend of falling pensions compared to salaries and, if they have not already improved, at least calmed the situation, the socio-economic situation facing pensioners and pensioners in our country. Therefore, as a proponent and on behalf of the Lip Group of Members, I propose that you support the proposal for a law and allow it to be further examined and, of course, also adopted within the framework of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Ms Alenka Jeraj has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. Applicants wish to amend the text of Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and to introduce the text to align pensions with net salaries, i.e. salaries reduced by taxes and contributions charged and paid by the salary at the average rate in the Republic of Slovenia. According to the applicants, the situation between pensions and salaries is falling disproportionately, with one of the most important factors being the change in income legislation. This is true, but they forget to mention that the Government, as one of the first measures in this mandate, has ensured fairer and more favourable reconciliation of pensions with salaries for pensioners. Some have probably not forgotten the fear that was spreading in the previous term when they wondered whether or not the pension would still exist next month and when the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance had to borrow loans, in short, to be in charge of paying pensions. Despite the experts they led, the former government had great difficulties in providing the necessary funds for the payment of pensions, helping with many highly questionable and pensioners with harmful mechanisms and measures, even if the year did not have more than 12 months. Therefore, to say that nothing or nothing has happened to the pensioners in this mandate is a great distraction. Perhaps some of you have already forgotten, which we are always reminded of from the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, that the government was the one who took over the debts of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance at the beginning of the mandate, saved their losses and allowed the institution to operate normally and provide regular pensions. In this mandate, we have amended the legislation and made it possible for the said more equitable and favourable reconciliation of pensions with salaries. Since we have also achieved a period of highest economic growth with the right approaches and changes in the income sector, this means higher wages, but also higher pensions. We have also taken care of the payment of all the supplements, for those who receive the lowest pensions, we have increased the pension base for receiving the protective allowance. We have earmarked more than €32 million for pensioners as a single pension allowance. In this mandate, after many years, Slovenian citizens with permanent residence in Slovenia, who receive pensions from insurance holders in other countries in the former SFRJ area, in addition to the addition of pensions from abroad, we have also recognised the right to a one-year supplement and the right to an allowance for assistance and service in amounts, as are pensioners who have applied to the Slovenian insurance institution. Pensions in Slovenia are coordinated according to the growth of the average monthly gross salary paid to legal persons employed by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia published in the Official Journal. In 2005, the revised method of taking into account pensions income did not substantially change the rate of pensions or the situation between pensions and salaries, since the Slovenian tax system has not changed the relationship between gross and net salaries over the last 15 years. The pension growth in 2006 and 2007 followed the full growth of average gross wages. The link between the growth of pensions and the growth of net wages instead of the growth of gross wages in the future would not have had a positive impact on the level of pensions if they had not previously changed tax legislation. On the contrary, it is considered that such a system, i.e. gross for the pensioner, is even more favourable because we have a progressive tax system that will affect the reallocation of individuals between income classes, where growth is prescribed only on the basis of inflation. Finally, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would like to point out that there are many manipulations by the opposition regarding pension numbers, as there are many pensioners in Slovenia who do not have all the conditions for full pension and are therefore very low. However, we are aware of the need for special attention to be paid to the socially weak pensioners, and we have also done so with a number of measures that I have already listed. The pension system is not complete and closed and will certainly change in the future, but the changes proposed by the applicants do not follow or, in our opinion, are not appropriate. Therefore, we will not support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that again. The fact is, you want to admit or not that pensions are falling so that pensions do not follow inflation or the rise in living needs. To reduce pensions due to tax legislation, amended tax legislation, due to the valorisation coefficients set by the Ministry of Finance, which are lower from year to year. And serious warnings are, serious warnings, not only from domestic experts in this area, economists, representatives of the Economic and Social Council, but also from the institutions of the European Union, that pensions, if we do not change legislation, will be reduced to 50% of the average wage by 2025. Some forecasts, which are more pessimistic, even point to alarming data that the pension in 2014 will amount to about 40% of the average wage. We don't want to brag. I don't think it's time for us to be bragging about the achievements of the Draganj allowance. But it's time that, because the government doesn't have a long-term strategy, we take a measure that can stop [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Bakan. You're giving up. Mag. Janez Petty Officer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. So, the bill is some copy of that proposal I tabled three or four months ago, i.e. as a mandatory interpretation of article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, nothing else. At that time, the reasons were stated that such a doctrine could not be the subject of an official interpretation. But this is exactly what has been shown that through official interpretation this could be done, because there has been a change in the calculation of the valorisation of pensions, even though there was no basis in the law. This means that official interpretation is sufficient. The matter was unclear because of the advent of self - will; and in a similar way, it came about a protective supplement. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance has applied a new calculation for every security allowance every year in each calculation, instead of valorizing it each year, and there is no need and many words have been spoken, many flattering, much grumbling and mucking - all over. And the pensioners are confused about it. That's the original reason why it happened. The legislation on the basis of, on the basis of, the harmonisation of transfers is perfectly fine, only because of this arbitrary intervention have these changes occurred and also to the detriment of pensioners. A stable compulsory insurance system can be a wedding for future pensioners, not a third pillar of voluntary or commercial insurance. Slovenia will have to provide the first pillar for the future - compulsory insurance. These insurance systems, which are elsewhere and which have been presented as perspectives, have proved to be problematic balloons that can rest and remain people without adequate insurance and adequate safety for an age period, but we will be able to share so much, because the pension fund is based on the system to maintain the current generation passively, so if we want to and if we want to guarantee the future of pensioners, then we will have to work hard on the competitiveness of the economy, on investing knowledge in the economy, on preventing monopolies, so that the good condition of the economy can be shared out of something. From new provinces, from new bureaucratic structures, new redistribution, respected colleagues and colleagues, there is no prospect for pensioners or for young families, nor for anyone else. So, let me finish. This bill is a copy of the dictatorship I proposed three months ago, and it was right that the law should not be amended, but that the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance should continue to do as it is required by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u99	Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavš on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Yes, and what Comrade Drobnic said before me cannot be disputed, I also wanted to highlight and reinforce the meaning of the proposed solution within the framework of the law. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance has written in its opinion on the authentic interpretation of Article 150, "that they could achieve positive effects by adopting a special law on the basis of which they would exceptionally harmonise pensions..." etc., and then write: "Almost the same material effects could be achieved either by means of a legal amendment of the basis for harmonisation laid down in Article 150 of the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, or by an authentic interpretation of this provision, which would be a procedurally quicker solution." We had this solution on our hands a good month ago on the working body, but then the Government and the vast majority of Members, including the LDS Members, said to this proposed solution that they would not accept the authentic interpretation of Article 150 because it required a legal amendment. The Ministry also gave such an explanation of the authentic explanation. When we are content, because it is actually the same thing when we transferred the content into the framework of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, you say again that there is no need, because we would be pensioners on the worse. All, with the exceptional government and SDS Members, Members of the New Slovenia and Members of the SLS, note that this is a good solution, the only good solution for pensioners at this time, because their pensions are from month to month or year, I apologize, smaller because they are not aligned with net salaries because they are aligned with gross wages that grow slower than net wages. Therefore, the harmonisation of pensions does not follow the level of inflation. Net wages have been adjusted by 5.9 percent and 7.9 percent, while gross wages by 5.9, inflation was 6.4 percent in last year.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u101	Mr. Andrej Fabjan has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] You're giving up. Mr. Mag. Sayovic, it's your turn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Of course, there's a lot to say about marriage. It's kind of similar to what it used to be, but the fact is it's sad that today the government is not with us, that it's sad that there are no ministers. You will see, now is the start of a two-month campaign, which last takes place in the corner trenches, these ministers, these ministers and Members of Parliament will visit; they do not have time for the National Assembly and for Parliament on such a topic as today. I know that this bill, which is proposed, has undoubtedly also had in mind the national elections and, indeed, the political effects cannot be ignored, but the fact that the gap between salaries and pensions is too great, that pensioners, who are struggling to break through every day, cannot pay municipal bills, apartments, cannot live normally, are too large. The fact is that these pensions, that this is not some kind of charity, are not a reward, but something that they have earned bloodyly in the course of their work and belong to them. Of course, such debates as today should also be used for whether what we create in Slovenia - and the Government, of course, argues that we have record economic growth - in the right way to distribute. If some do not have a means of survival, then the answer can only be this: distribution is not the right thing to do, and it needs to be discussed and agreed upon. It is likely that the final outcome will not be the law that we have received on the tables today, that law would give some things on the one hand and, on the other hand, it would no doubt break the system or the principles - even more fatal. However, the topic is so necessary and so important that today ministers, including other secretaries, should sit on those chairs, not from social, not just from culture and space, but from the financial, economic and other ministries; and this is what this is all about. However, we will continue to think carefully about supporting this proposal by the end of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Will you be at the end or now? Two more are debaters. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u104	Thank you. First of all, as President of the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I would like to affirm to the view that some institutions, here I am referring to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and others, in their responses to people who complain about unsustainable financial conditions, are in fact directing them to turn to civil society or organisations, to Karitas and to the Red Cross for help at a time when they do not get an answer or an appropriate solution when they are unemployed as disabled persons, but they do not yet have a resolution before the Commission or in any other life situations. I just want to say that there are many gaps in the legislation, and that even with this celebration, which the colleague of the SDS said on behalf of the SDS Group, does not cover a number of gaps in the legislation when people really find themselves in existential distress and those institutions that should care for the well-being of everyone are sent to Karitas and the Red Cross. However, I have already said how these things are, when I asked the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs how it will mitigate the inflationary effects. However, I would like, of course, to oppose the view that the situation of pensioners has improved, as the state-of-the-art MP in some media does, by resisting this position on the magnetogram of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, when the representative of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance said how difficult it was to identify some differences in the average rate of contributions and taxes they could not determine, which even the Ministry of Finance could not identify and find back, and because of this, it is difficult to coordinate because they do not calculate for the current year, but can only be calculated backwards. It's quite a real problem, you can find it in a magnetogram, as you say. But now I want to move on to this. This was said in connection with the authentic interpretation of Article 150, and it was said: "So, if a mandatory interpretation is already in place, then the compulsory interpretation should go in this direction to change the basis on which pensions are now being coordinated. So to coordinate on the basis of net salary movements published on official statistics, so that we can carry out the matter, but not on the basis, I will say gross wages converted into net value because this conversion is not possible during the year." This is the representative of the institution. And here's the problem: "The problem is that there has been a change in tax legislation that has significantly more burdened wages relative to pensions, and because of this, although I will say, the pension declaration has been followed by the movement of gross wages, but the ratio of average net pensions relative to average net salaries has decreased more than expected and because this has happened twice. The first amendment took place in 2005" etc. This relationship, in 2007, has deteriorated beyond all those expectations arising from the established legislation. It has been found that this relationship moves to the detriment of pensions and to listen here in the National Assembly constantly, as the ugly, shameless, pitiful opposition invents something and is already beyond the bounds of decent. If the graphs are false - if the data are false; for no one speaks of pensions for an underlife! We're talking about statistics. By the way, the Prime Minister also told me that I don't have the right statistics, because probably only the Government has the right statistics, but then they should finally tell me how they interpret the data, because they hide a lot of the data in order to show up in the light of what they want to see. You know, you don't know that everything depends on what aspect of things we're looking at. And if that's what the officials explained that the difference was to the detriment of pensions, then I see no reason to think otherwise, because that's what the biggest coalition party thinks. I intend to support this bill myself. But if there really was such a thing in this government's conduct that we wanted to do something good, it had the opportunity to do it, because we called on it before, and I said it before, in June, we addressed it, before those changes that we then so enthusiastically confirmed, because to some extent they did bring a slight improvement, but this, which we are now talking about, should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u105	Mrs. Tomc, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. Initially, I would explain that the Government has a strategy for the protection of the elderly by 2010. I have a full report on the implementation of this strategy ahead of me. Of course, there is still a lot to be done in the area of pension and disability insurance. The fact is that the ratio between the active population or those who invest in the pension system and those who draw from it was between 1989 and 2,52, while in 2006 there were only 1.69 more. This means that our pension system faces similar problems as all developed systems in Europe face. At the same time, we are also reminded that even Slovenia is not in the worst position in this regard and that this unpleasant demographic movement will only continue. Regardless of what has been said so far, I would like to add another aspect of looking at the level of pensions or the growth of pensions. It is undeniable and data show that pensions have been steadily increasing since 2000 with the exception of 2003. In 2000, they increased by 0.8%, 2001 0.3% and so on, by 2.1% in 2007. It is also true that net wages increased by 4.1% in 2007. So the ratio has collapsed, but we cannot pass over the fact that pensions are growing realistically. Another warning in all discussions about better or more accurate coordination with net or gross wages. The income scale in which gross salaries are entered is aligned with inflation. In principle, wages are growing faster than inflation. This means that in the coming year, this relationship, which we are reminding us of today, will be in harm's way to those who would be able to coordinate with net salaries with such a proposal. In the following year, it would be necessary to make further corrections, but of course the Government advocates that these amendments, or amendments to the income legislation or pension legislation, which will undoubtedly be necessary, be systematic and should be approached on the basis of comprehensive analyses. The Slovenian pension system is also a rare one, if not the only one in Europe where pensions are aligned with salaries, any salaries, gross salaries, net salaries. This is not known by modern European pension systems, mostly in line with price increases or in those countries that are quite generous, half of them are aligned with wages and half of them are aligned with the prices of living needs. After 2005, when we also changed the mode of coordination, pensions are no longer lagging behind wages, but their alignment is consistent with wage growth and, as a result of these measures, pensions are today significantly higher than they would have been if they had not been taken in 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u107	Please, on behalf of the proposer, Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman. Well, what Mrs State Secretary has just said is, of course, easy to challenge. Firstly, I did not want to expose you to a long-term strategy in the area of social protection, but in the area of the pension system. However, if you have highlighted the long-term strategy of the Government in the field of social security or social protection, let me tell you that the Court of Auditors has found that the needs of beneficiaries are not reflected in the State budget or in the budget of the Ministry, that social security programmes or services of the Ministry do not cover the needs, do not provide equal opportunities, the Government does not have a clear enough answer to the question where, with those in need of protection and care, the Ministry does not run its databases, does not have a clearly defined strategy, does not systematically monitor public information about the provision of social security services, does not have a clear view of the resources spent and so on. This is a long-term strategy of the Ministry of Social Protection. Tell me what it's like to have a long-term pension strategy. The President of the Government did not have an answer, the only answer was: the payment of two bills. But he didn't stick to it either. He didn't pay the bills. He didn't pay the bills, I don't know, so many and so many hundred people who turned to him because they just can't live with low pensions anymore. The only long-term strategy pointed out by the Prime Minister is to send pensioners to the Red Cross for a package and to Karitas for a package. Maybe it's part of his strategy, I don't know that we're too much of a consumer society, and that we need to be saved, that it's easy for people to eat, or eat less, or have them dig through garbage, dumpsters and eat old bread. But this is a bad government strategy. People need more. In my previous law, I tried to mention that theory of moving from social society to social government, which is only about capital, neoliberal governments. First, the social government, which advocates the so-called "Wellfare" system, gives emphasis to man, to his rights. The other government places emphasis on the so-called "Workfare" system, which means that man is as long as he is useful for the country, the state respects him and treats him, as I believe, as an equal person or a member of society. As soon as it is no longer productive and useful for the country, it is no longer important to it and discards it. This is the long-term policy of this government in the area of the pension or social welfare system. Pensions, in real terms, fall. You were sorry earlier, Madam Secretary of State, when I showed real data on the chart. Retirement compared to wages is falling and will fall by 2025. At that time, the trend of falling pensions was expected to stop at 50% of the average wage. Pensions, in real terms, fall. All the statistics except for government data talk about it, all the life indicators talk about it. That's why I think the time has come when you stop blinding yourself or stop blinding citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u109	Since the time for discussion has not yet passed, I ask you on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure whether anyone else wants to discuss it. One reported. Here you go, Mr. Koren. I'm only opening one lap.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. I think it is important for our pensioners, as I think it is important that all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia have one normal condition for normal survival. At the beginning of this mandate, the government, this coalition and this National Assembly have moved on to the changes in the coordination of pensions, because we have all seen that pensions have fallen and that such a measure has to be taken. I think we all know that for a fact. If we did not then change this mode of coordination, our pensioners today would be deprived of a substantial amount of their pensions. And even at this point, I must say that it is right to advocate that our pensioners have a decent life. However, when changing, we should not look too short-term. If the current situation is such that the net salary is the one that allows for more favourable coordination for pensioners, this does not mean that this is the most appropriate in the long term. I think that we, as members of the National Assembly, must strive to make this system bearable and, in the long run, to be favourable. During these years, when I met with the pensioners, they were particularly grappling with this disharmony between the highest and lowest pensions. I think it's also right and fair at this point to say a word on this subject. I agree with those who say the lowest pensions are low and that is why something has to be done. But the pensioners aren't hurt like that. Many people, many retired people, have told me that they would really want to see once in their lives that pensions would rise to the same level, not by percentage, that those who already have so much would get even more. And a one-time pension allowance went this way to get those with the lowest pensions something more than those with high pensions. That is why I think it is not appropriate to come to a different coordination, because the current relationship is that on the net salary a better calculation for pensioners is not appropriate, but let's make sure that those with the lowest pensions are able to raise pensions and thus enable everyone to live a normal and decent life. It is also true that we must slowly adjust to the European standard of wages. So, gross and net salaries are no longer worth talking about. Let us start by talking about wages, and let us make pensions that are suitable for our pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u111	I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the conclusion of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the basis of the conclusions adopted by the State Assembly at its 37th meeting, the agenda item of the agenda - on the draft conclusions for the activity report on the basis of the conclusions adopted by the State Assembly. Extraordinary meeting of 3.6.2008 in connection with the issue of capital concentration in Slovenia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted 12 conclusions at its 37th extraordinary meeting on the proposal for a decision on the issue of concentration of capital in Slovenia in postal collectors and the issue of concentration of media ownership in relation to the constitutional right to information. The Government has committed itself to inform the National Assembly within 30 days of its findings and the measures under its jurisdiction and to propose any necessary legislative changes to the National Assembly within six days at the latest. The draft conclusions to the Government's report were presented to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Jožet Tank, for the additional presentation of the draft conclusions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. The fight against organised crime and corruption is an important area in which this coalition has been seriously confronted. The former governments have set up a process of gradual and undetectable concentration of capital. The 2004 elections and legislative changes have committed themselves to this concept, the coalition has taken legislative corrections seriously, the supervisory institutions have begun to verify the legality of procedures even backwards, and the tycoons have accelerated the concentration procedures, which is why they have suddenly been named by various anonymous postal companies or parking spaces with small own property that have concentrated the ownership of the largest economic systems. This could not have happened without the conduct and planned policy cooperation managed by the State by 2004. Both investigative committees in this mandate, one investigating the sale of state shares and the other procurement of military equipment and weapons, came to the same conclusions, all of which happened agreed in tight political circles and without public calls. During the whole period of transition, no damage to social property was legally terminated. Many were overlooked, many of whom ended up in the investigation, and many of them remained after the cabinets of the prosecutions and the courts. Nor did the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Agency for the Market in Securities, acting on an official duty, apply between friends who were translating State shares, have they, if any, made him feel deprived, consoled him in another way. In the previous term, we in particular in the SDS have very loudly pointed out the emergence of corruption and clienteleism, but more than the establishment of a Toothless Anti-Corruption Commission, it was not at the will of the current government or the LDS and SD. The Commission has dealt most with municipal councilors, did not detect major acts of corruption, neither has billions of financial movements, nor has the Anti-Money Laundering Office detect that. Only this government has provided the conditions for a serious fight against corruption and organised crime, strengthened and trained law enforcement authorities, replaced the ineffective management of the Office and the Agency and significantly improved legislation on banking, acquisitions, insurance, financial instruments markets, competition and so on. It is only in this mandate that legislative provisions have been implemented. It was no longer untouchable. However, the media are also bringing news of the pressures directed primarily by those who should be most concerned about the interests of the public and consumers, information agents, the Anti-Corruption Commission, and the former President is very active here. Those suspected of major crimes are supposed to be great gentlemen, they should be treated differently from other citizens, and those who detect and prosecute crimes are criminalised. We could say the world is wrong. Policy makers from SD, LDS and Really react cynically. The very approach to eliminating these illegal phenomena represents a significant difference between the Government and the majority of the opposition. While the Government has taken very seriously and consistently the consequences of illegal practices and concentrations materialized by such companies because of the monopoly situation at high prices of products, especially food, and raised inflation and affected mainly workers, pensioners and other most exposed segments of the population, the opposition stands firm for its directors. Cinical statements and symbolic gestures show that they are not interested in combating illegality and corruption. We note that the Government has taken the work seriously, has taken many measures and has proposed the necessary changes to the legislation. An effective fight against monopolies and cartels can prevent the exhaustion of citizens, especially those with the lowest income and pensioners. Let us therefore give full support to the Government and other authorities in the fight against such harmful behaviour of ruthless directors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The draft decision to the report was considered by the Committee on the Economy as the parent working body. I give the floor to Vice-President William Rezman to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the Committee on the Economy considered the issue of concentration of capital and media ownership as a parent labour force, which was also the theme of the 37th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly on the basis of initiatives signed by Members. At that time, 12 conclusions were adopted. There were also deadlines for action in the 30 days and applications for possible legislative additions within the 60 days. In this regard, the Government has prepared a report and has equipped 33 Members with this report with three proposals for conclusions and requested a hearing at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. The materials that were the basis for the discussion on the working body were the materials sent by the Government. Conclusions and amendments to the second decision drawn up by the Members of the three coalition parties - SDS, NSI and SLS - the Bank of Slovenia report and the written response of the Securities Market Agency. The Ministry of Culture and the Office for the Protection of Competition have written in these works that they work all the time, that they act by the rules and did not refer to the conclusions adopted at the meeting on 3 June. The Ministry of Finance has explicitly stated that the reason for proposing two amendments and supplementing the Law on the Securing of Markets in Financial Instruments has been the conclusions of this July meeting, the Bank of Slovenia has stated that it has been operating in accordance with the laws, even before 3.6, to monitor developments on the market and to take appropriate action. However, the ATVP noted that it considers that its presence would be inappropriate because it leads to specific cases at a meeting of such a working body. The debate, which was based on these glass materials, raised concerns about the reports. Neither the opposition nor the coalition MPs were overly enthusiastic, especially lacked more accurate data and more detailed data. Regarding the conclusions proposed, however, the coalition or coalition MPs found that they were necessary, but the opposition did not and did not bring any materiality. The discussion also rejected the claim, as was awkwardly stated in the Government's report that Banka Slovenije and UVK did not cooperate or cooperate only from May ahead, and explained that cooperation had been established substantially earlier but at an informal level. However, the UVC's assessment was relativised that the prosecution is too up-to-date and that the technical assistance of the police in their work is also too modest. The amendment to the second decision proposed by the Members and Members of the three coalition groups was adopted, decisions were also adopted and proposed to the National Assembly for discussion and adoption. They say: first - on the government's report; second - on the finding that the Government is acting to act; and third - on the actual appeal, the call for the Government to propose in due time any amendments to the laws. Thus, such complementary proposals for decisions shall be forwarded to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u116	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Dear colleagues. Of course, the task of the Government and the ruling coalition, as well as of Parliament, is to create conditions for the functioning of the rule of law, to establish the conditions that laws apply to all the same things and that procedures are clear and infringements of these can and must be experienced as quickly as possible by both the judicial epilogue and the response of the supervisory institutions. Of course, however, both the Government and Parliament are limited in all of this. They are limited to allowing the Government to propose, and Parliament shall adopt appropriate legislation. Supervisory institutions are generally independent and conditional work under the letter of the law and we have encountered the most problems here in the past. We have fully aligned the Slovenian acquis with the European acquis, but this has clearly proved that in a transition country such as the Republic of Slovenia, this is not enough and this is not enough, so we had to adapt some national legislation further, notably to the specifications of the transition of the economy in the Republic of Slovenia and the ownership transition. Let me mention just a few such measures that we have taken over the past period. For the first time, we have made very tighter or extended the validity of the takeover legislation, as a rule in the European Union countries, the takeover legislation applies only to public shareholders, and in the Republic of Slovenia we have practically extended it to all of them in the past, including to all non-public companies, and so is the takeover legislation for all companies with more than EUR 4 million of total capital, which is in fact a large share. We have also very limited the so-called connection of the same natural persons with a number of companies through membership in the supervisory councils. In view of the performance, the work of this government and of this coalition were considered to have been in the 10 supervisory boards: in the five supervisory boards of individual companies and in the five supervisory boards of subsidiaries. In the hands of individuals, it has been systematically built up that a large amount of information has been concentrated, as well as the resulting power, and therefore we should not be surprised that this has brought about and that sooner or later a series of unloving or bad consequences of this concentration of capital have also come along; this has been changed. Indeed, with the new company law, it is possible for an individual to be a member only in three supervisory councils and not more in ten than before. Of course, we have also changed the whole set of other legislation, where we have highlighted the more important role of small shareholders, strengthened the functioning of supervisory institutions, made procedures more transparent and made shareholders more informed, and this has led to a kind of more transparent system regime. We have also expected and awaited the more effective work of the supervisory institutions. Regrettably, the management of supervisory institutions, both the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Agency for the Market in Securities, had to be changed. Indeed, the long-standing directors were, in my opinion, the systemic brakes for the rule of law were in the supervisory sense. And I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that in the future we will also experience a more effective work of the judiciary, because if there is no rapid effective response of the judiciary to the anomaly in implementation and in breach of legislation, then there is no substantial movement to be expected. Thus, the Government followed recommendations and discussions in the National Assembly with a number of measures listed in the report. We will also do this later and also propose systemic changes and some other minor legislative changes in terms of more effective supervision. I therefore support, as Minister, the establishment of the Financial Police, the establishment of an IT Forensics Centre and the pooling of staff, knowledge for the most effective detection and sanctioning of organised crime related to the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! Today, we are witnessing a repeat of a poorly prepared session, which is supposed to pour pure wine on unacceptable concentrations in economic enterprises and also on the consequences that this leaves for the functioning of the media. It should be remembered that the meeting, which served as the basis for the conclusion that led to the second barren session, dealt with this. In all respects, the 33 heroes of the coalition once again gave a sad idea of how the government works and how the coalition works. If we had other reasons to say, somehow, that Members and Members do not have an insight into the situation, they do not have all the data, but this time we have received a report from the Government. The government's report was not spoken of by the motioner, but should have, and the government's report was not spoken of by the minister, so I doubt he had anything to do with it. However, he spoke again about the things that we had been asking him the last time to expect more efficient work and a swift conviction in the judicial system, but there is no evidence in this report that the prosecution would already file any charges. How, then, can justice be expected to resolve anything if there are no viable proposals for these types of decisions? So after two months, or as long as it is, I ask again which one he would quickly condemn. Of course, this session is not only a disaster, but also a great sadness. Mr Tanko here said that four years ago, or as far as possible, they were working towards the establishment of an anti-corruption commission. I would remind him that now it has been abolished for four years, as soon as it was established. Thus, at a time when I should look under the finger of February, which receives legitimacy for my non-transparent decisions in the current term, this timelessness, as the commission itself said, is over. And we have met here with their proposals and proposals by the intention of related parties, so that I will not now mention any pacts and other links that have abolished this commission. Nor did the Government wish to notify this body in view of the adoption of the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. From this point of view, it must be said that this government and this coalition have done everything in their power to prevent the control of its procedures. The earlier meeting, which favours this one, also arose because it would not be possible to ask the opposition's views on the three K's that were four years ago. That is why Mr Tank and his tankers intervened quickly. So we are here, I will say, in the situation, in the National Assembly, that whenever the opposition tries to enforce one of its own with the Constitution, namely the rights guaranteed, to investigate the possible disadvantages of the Government, Mr Tanko and his own committee, which is broader, better and more thorough, and therefore has a broader view, and we still do not know what has happened to the President of the Government today when part of these connections that have subsequently become more common to them than we ourselves understand about the force of all these things, and that is why this deal has not worked, that part of the company that sells everything is allowed to own a company that would then leave them in exchange the management of the media. That was the story. But these sessions, regardless, are very important, because they demonstrate all political philosophy and all depravity and, as I said in the previous introduction, all the perversion of the present power. Last time and today, you've been moaning that you can't do anything, that you didn't understand anything, and that it's only after four years that you actually have to adopt regulations. I don't believe it. A good part of the colleagues also sat with us in the previous Parliament and acted as if they were, I will say, perfectly capable and adopted laws that were then in force. Now they're saying they don't understand them and that this was a secret preparation for something, I don't know, a concentration in the back. But as this concentration took place, you did not allow us to investigate with any commission, Members of Parliament, which is in the hands of Mr Tanko. It's sad! We will continue to face you, even if you come back again, given that all those conclusions are so written, that in one month we can expect another meeting where you will prepare a set of legislation to save the Slovenian economy of these tycoons, we will face again that you were poor and that everyone behind you worked and that even those who gave them the authority, like Mrs Starina Kosem, have abandoned you for 30 silver coins when you had to. But the one you can buy, you can always buy it for silver more - you should know that already. Yes, it's from the Holy Scriptures, Mr. Viceroy, so it's [[...]] [[Intermediate advertising.]] [[...]] Thus are certain things that have been known for a long time, such as this Parliament. But anyway, I've been expecting a lot from this meeting. [[...]] [[Intermediate advertising.]] They're not, because they're happy because I've been expecting a lot, too. [[...]] [[...]] I expected you to bring in some of your tycoons if you didn't get any strangers. But, with this you can still make us happy, I will say, those two more driven Members, Mr Grims and Mr Blackach, they must have their tycoons, if you haven't already got them, or else the purpose of this meeting will go to nothing, I assure you. You can't keep pulling all the Slovenian television audience's noses to work to breathe behind the collar and what we've been listening to, and more than you're breathing and the more you're doing, the less clear what happened. And more levers, as Minister Vizjak said you have in your hands, more people who have been replaced by you, who now run these agencies, are less clear about what's going on. And I really expect that once, because you're very specific, these things, as you know, brutally, with television cameras and so on, also perform, I will say, for the elected audience of the National Assembly, not least of all us, you're still harassing us with these unnecessary meetings. But I am pleased with this amendment, which has been adopted as an additional conclusion, because it demonstrates all this political philosophy of yours. You wrote in the second letter: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia supports the State Prosecutor's Office, the Police, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition and the Agency for the Market in Securities in the Fight against Organized Crime and Corruption and the fight against illegality in capital integration which violate the principles of free competition." That's a very nice conclusion. A very appropriate conclusion, which calls out to us to recall those famous post-war fighting times when working people, workers, citizens and honest intellectuals fought together against the worst enemy of socialism - against the Colorado bug. You have beautifully copied this, beautifully demonstrated this mentality and this is all the truth of these extraordinary meetings of yours: to try to introduce instead of the functioning of institutions a revolutionary spirit. And that's what I'm afraid of. Therefore, I hope that this account of yours, with these meetings and these false promises, how you will do everything differently and better and clear everything, will finally open your eyes to the people and that people will see that they do not deserve another mandate and that they will continue such a policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, the other representatives of the Government are warmly welcomed and respected colleagues and colleagues! I will try to put forward the position of the Group of Members, because what we have now heard was something pure, purely different, but I also thank the Chairman for having had good nerves and tolerated this exposition by colleague Jože Školč. Perhaps to begin our view of the management acquisitions that we have witnessed and are still witnessing in this savage privatisation, but above all we have witnessed during the Slovenian transition, which in some way gave the intonation of the government, one such or another, but always under the leadership of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. In the developed economy, in fact, we rarely find an example of management taking over, but if so, this is mainly the case in those companies that are in difficulty, and there is a management takeover of perhaps just about 25% of the company's property. In our view, managers' acquisitions are mainly about two different issues. The first issue is the protection of small shareholders and the abuse of internal information. For managers' acquisitions, this is an exclusive infringement, an abuse of internal information, as managers have all the information available, i.e. those which, under the Company Act, they can deny to shareholders. In addition, it is the managers who are actually responsible for the financial operations of the companies. By manipulating, by selling their own shares, they have all the mechanisms in their hands to bring down the price of shares and thus make it cheaper to purchase. On the other hand, the members of the administration are in the so-called conflict of interest, since they protect their own interests and not more the interests of owners or businesses in such purchases. Thus, the ethicality of such work is questionable here, and it is the ethics that we have also pointed out at the anti-Taqun emergency meeting of the National Assembly. For this reason, managers' acquisitions generally take place in developed capitalist countries only in companies in crisis, as I have already said, as a form of rescue for a company in crisis where large creditors are interested in the recovery of the company and thereby reimburses most of their claims. And another matter accompanying managers' acquisitions is that such a form raises the issue of equality before the law, as banks of lenders discriminate against individual borrowers. Normally, the bank would not lend a loan to a third party wishing to take over the company with the flag of its shares. On 3 June this year, a poor two months ago, the Slovenian public witnessed a heated debate on the issue of concentration of capital in Slovenia in postal collectors and the issue of concentration of media ownership in relation to the constitutional right to information. More simply, there was a heated debate in this Chamber for 12 hours on so-called tycunization, the unfair concentration of capital, the unethical charging of bank accounts, and so on. After the painful moments of the Picreme arguing with the opposition and following a series of procedural complications, 12 decisions were adopted covering the future activities of the Government, as well as the National Assembly and also the Bank of Slovenia. The aim of all conclusions was to limit and prevent further, even in the opinion of New Slovenia, especially the unethical enrichment of individuals in our country. Despite the apparent superficiality of the conclusions and the fact that they cannot really contribute to the improvement of the situation or the prevention of tycunization, in the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that the conclusions covered good demands, instructions and recommendations for those competent institutions and bodies in Slovenia that have the potential and the basis for action in the situations ahead. However, it is clear from the report before us, which the representatives of the opposition species call superficial and inappropriate, that the activities imposed on the competent institutions have begun to be carried out without delay and that their first effects have already been observed. Above all, it seems important to highlight the activities of the Ministry of Finance, which, as it were, immediately after the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, prepared the New Law on the Market in Financial Instruments and the New Law on Insurance. This laid the legal basis for further strengthening the role of supervisory institutions, i.e. the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency, which in particular means reducing the potential for abuse. Greater supervisory powers, new supervisory measures introduced and the greater institutional independence of these agencies are certainly those solutions that will prevent or limit the possibility of non-transparent action. Of course, it is also necessary to welcome the rapid action of the Competition Protection Office, which, as a competent authority, has taken seriously and vigorously the investigation and determination of the disputed concentration of capital in Istrabenz, Work, Vecer, Mercury and other companies where we can talk about justified suspected irregularities. In our view, the Office has launched an effective assessment of the compliance of concentrations and acquisitions with competition rules. Today, Mr Soršak fills the headlines of Slovenian media with the first minute on television reports. Until Soršak came to the Office of Competition Protection, we hardly even knew that this office existed. So it smelled like intransparency. The Bank of Slovenia report, which we were able to receive on Friday, suggests that the total exposure of banks to the acquisition and acquisition companies involved in the three major media and also the most economically exposed acquisitions, namely Pivovarna Laško, Mercury and Istrabenz, increased by €0.23 billion at the end of March 2008 compared to the end of 2007. In doing so, the Bank of Slovenia points out that the amounts cover all liabilities of banks and not only credits intended to finance acquisitions. The report shows that the banks have respected internal procedures regarding the method of granting credits because they claim insurance and have evaluated the exposure and the design of reservations accordingly. The Committee on the Economy adopted three conclusions, the main objective of which is to continue to carry out activities in the field of so-called tycoonisation and the Government's proposal that it propose any necessary legislative changes to the National Assembly by the beginning of August. In Novi Slovenija, we are pleased with the measures taken so far and taking into account the decisions taken at the so-called 'anti-Takoon meeting'. We are particularly proud and expect even more engagement and results in the implementation of the eleventh decision, which, if you allow me, I read again: "The National Assembly notes that in the past many of today's business owners have acquired ownership or co-ownership of companies by hiring high loans secured by the shares of the companies they have purchased through state banks that have been rehabilitated by Slovenian citizens and citizens. The National Assembly proposes to the Government to consider the possibility of drafting a bill that will allow all contracts allowing the purchase of credits guaranteed or guaranteed by common property to be null and void." In this fight for unethical leniency and privatisation, it would probably be good for all, left and right, red and blue, to join forces in this fight against unfair and unethical riches. It may be naive to expect this in politics, but it is the doing of blue politicians who care about the future of all future generations. It would be imperative to step on those tycoons, as we call them, and we know exactly what it is today and who the tycoon is. Because the tycoons are getting faster than the great gentlemen. Today, tycoons are just individuals who take advantage of the property of those who have participated in the creation of the same property. Their work is all before masculine. In New Slovenia, we will continue to strive and advocate for the implementation of the decisions adopted at the 37th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and also for the implementation of the decisions adopted at the Committee on the Economy on Friday. We hope that action will soon bear fruit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Fabjan has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u122	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, good afternoon. Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group have already said at the 37th extraordinary meeting that we do not support the concentration of capital in a way that is in any way questionable from the legal point of view of formal reasons, that we do not support the concentration of capital through the outflow of small shareholders, by using internal information and by silenced parts of civil society that are marketable for subsequent disposal, thereby creating the "extra" capital gains that are later used to repay the loans paid. However, we do not oppose the concentration of capital in a transparent way, without exhausting target companies and without unnecessary exposure to the banking system. In any way, economic legality, such as the market economy, free initiative, competition, of course, must be respected in a legal framework, transparent and for its money. However, there remains a certain measure of doubt in the Slovenian People's Party's Group as a result of such a consideration of this extremely important topic. We believe that the contents of the report would have been treated differently by the opposition if the item on the agenda were normal during the normal period, but this point is on the agenda today because the conclusions adopted by the National Assembly on the issue of capital concentration in Slovenia have led the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to inform the National Assembly within 30 days of its findings and measures in this area. We therefore have before us a report on the basis of which further appropriate solutions are to be adopted. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, on the basis of a report by the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, we find that we were right when we argued that the problem was not only in Pivovarna Laško, Istrabenz, Mercury, but that it was a broader issue. At this point, I would not expose everyone in the report of those companies, as it is clear that UVK is actually only in the middle of work. We also note that there has been close cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia. Regarding the activities of the Ministry of Finance, my fellow Members told my wife the 40th meeting of the National Assembly when you adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments. The adopted novelties are expected to increase supervisory powers, new supervisory measures are being introduced and the institutional independence of the Securities Market Agency and the Insurance Supervisory Agency is being strengthened. The activity report was also presented by the Ministry of Culture. The talk is about ownership and management shares in the media, that there are problems with independence in this area, but, indeed, even bigger problems are with objectivity, which today's media somehow fail to overcome. Again and again, I cannot wonder what we can hear today and see, read, from untruths, lies and instigations. In this place, we do not need to talk at all, in the generally known largest television, newspaper houses, but about the clientele that became the so - called most defensive weekly. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed conclusions, although we believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must continue its activities, whether ordered by the National Assembly or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u124	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present. For today's or the point that we are considering, we have received material, namely the Government's report and the Bank of Slovenia's response on the role of business banks in taking on a majority stake in certain companies. For a meeting of the Committee on the Economy, which is the working body, to address this item on the agenda, we have received additional apologies from the Soda, the Soda and Kad leadership, which is usually due to the fact that they are attending meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly themselves, and this is no surprise. And an interesting apology from the Securities Market Agency, which justifies its absence by its independence, which is certainly a contribution to understanding the independence of individual institutions. Let us look at the acts that are the basis for today's debate or are supposed to be the basis. The Government's report, which was to be submitted by the Fund to the 10 decisions taken at the beginning of June within 30 days, came within six weeks or 50% of the extension of the deadlines. It is said that the government did not respect this decision of the National Assembly. As she did not respect the first decision, because it is not possible to say that this report is comprehensive because the requirement of the first decision is after the comprehensive report and that the report does not or does not arise in cooperation with the competent institutions. From the material provided by the Government, it is clear that this is the competent, only institution that participated, the Office for the Protection of Competition. Let us take a look at this report from the Government, from which it is not clear whether it is definitive, comprehensive or so temporary or intermediate, but the fact is that 1/4 of the report refers to the repetition of the 12 decisions adopted in the National Assembly as a refresher of the memory to Members if they might have forgotten what they had adopted in early June. No action, no content. A good fifth of the report lists the measures taken by the Office for the Protection of Competition, namely 7, of which 5 refers to measures already initiated before the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, two regret the failure of the prosecution and the Bank of Slovenia and seven, or one of the measures in fact, is the proposal for one of the future amendments to the law. A fifth of the report concerns the Ministry of Finance's actions, which are reduced as well as the introduction or initial part of the Government's report, on the proposal of amendments to the two laws, namely the Insurance Act and the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, which were adopted on the initiative, as if Members did not know, any other measure. A weak third of the report concerns the Ministry of Culture and it needs to be corrected here that this is the most corrective or qualitative part of the Government's report, all its activities explain or relate specifically to individual decisions adopted by the National Assembly in early June, but it is true that the examination of foreign comparative legislation is also mentioned among these activities or measures in order to possibly know and be able to propose appropriate legislative changes. The report does not provide comprehensive information on the issue of capital concentration in certain companies and has obviously not been prepared in cooperation with the competent institutions. The report also does not provide an answer to important questions, let me mention just some: Did and to what extent did the State, by selling its assets, affect both the concentration of capital and the acquisition of managers? To what extent did the state banks allow for management buy-outs by lending? In the event of inadequate decisions by State banks, have appropriate measures, including personnel, been implemented? Is there a causal link between lending and the need to recapitalise the two largest banks in their own countries? The report does not provide an answer to all these questions, so there can be no basis for adequate quality treatment in the National Assembly, and even less so can be justified by the inclusion in this report in an extraordinary meeting. The second document is the response of the Bank of Slovenia to or in connection with another decision adopted by the National Assembly. In response to the Bank of Slovenia, it is possible to conclude that, in the vast majority over the finger, even 90% could be said, it is a summary of 185 pages of the Bank of Slovenia report published in May before the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Although it was a few days later in the National Assembly and it was on the agenda of the parent committee, this is the Committee on Finance, but there was no interest in more deliberation and that is the majority, this is what the coalition majority in this Committee even decided to take note of the content and to assess that there is no need for debate at the plenary session. If this report by the Bank of Slovenia is not needed to be considered after the assessment of the coalition and because it gives most of the answers to some open questions regarding concentration and managers' buyouts, this gives it a kind of special answer in itself. In the response of the Bank of Slovenia we find very little information which is not in this extensive and very quality report, but which, of course, requires careful reading, perhaps more than once. And what the response of the Bank of Slovenia offers us in addition to the information that could have been read for the month of May, that is to say before the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and before the formation of the second decision, to add some information. For the first time - Banka Slovenije notes in the case of Pivovarna Laško that guarantees amounting to EUR 448 million have not been converted into loans and that it is a lot of speech and does not correspond to the truth. Secondly, of course, the loans that were granted in this case were largely secured by securities. In the case of Mercury, it shall identify additional information, the occurrence of a significant part of the non-insured loans at all and the risk or risk of interest rate increases, or in the event of a deterioration of the economic situation for that undertaking or that company. What about Istrabenz, who is also exposed in discussions and conclusions? Nothing. Because the manager's ransom in Istrabenz did not take place or was not carried out. This is practically all that further tells us this famous response, to which we had to wait so that we received it at a committee meeting on Friday, even though the representative of the Bank of Slovenia at the hearing of the 1st July of this year's exposure report said that there was no problem in obtaining additional information. Nor did the Bank respond to the decision of the Finance Committee, which asked, virtually unanimously, on the Committee, to ask Banka Slovenije for three data: how many loans for managers' acquisitions assessed by the Bank in the total mass were granted at the level of a billion 200 million, after surveys or banks themselves, business, they acknowledged that this was only supposed to be 970 million. With what share are large banks mainly owned by the Republic of Slovenia, with what small Slovenian bank and with what foreign bank? This grouping of banks into these three groups has not been invented by Members. This is usually structured by Banka Slovenije, which was able to say that banks owned by the State were involved with the highest percentage of credit insurance for managers' securities purchases, about 5 times more than they accepted as a guarantee or collateral for a foreign bank operating in the territory of the Slovenian State and about 2 times as many as smaller private Slovenian banks did. The response of the Bank of Slovenia, although otherwise corrected, does not answer the question raised by the three Members, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which is a more important question, since we could only ask for the proportion of credits that the banks held in principal state ownership. This is said to have not been answered by the Bank of Slovenia, nor has the Government provided it in its problematic report, although some data can, of course, be obtained indirectly. The proposed conclusions of the applicants requiring an extraordinary meeting and the inclusion of this point in today's extraordinary session, including the amendment of one of the conclusions, do not constitute any contribution to solving the problem of inappropriate concentration, which is evident, capital and managers' redemptions, but are only a poor attempt at the cost of politicisation and the maintenance of the tycoon crane in life for pre-election purposes. Regardless of the rather strange atmosphere in obtaining data and the problematic quality of certain reports and the apparent non-participation of certain institutions in preparing a report or responding to decisions in the National Assembly, the fact is that the State has participated in the sale of state assets and thus has allowed the concentration that the sellers are known to be known and that purchases would not be made if they were not criticised by banks, businesses and that it is possible to claim, and it will be very difficult to refute this claim that at least half of the credits were granted by state banks, half of which would be 970 or half of EUR 200 million. Of course, the responsibility of the administrations and supervisory boards of these banks and the government's response is raised here, in particular the Ministry of Finance, because if you were to read the relevant reports of Banka Slovenije last year, some measures should be proposed on their own, rather than imposing an extraordinary meeting, ordering their position members what they should propose and what they should impose, and a person has the feeling that we are returning to the old age of the relationship between the Assembly and the Executive Council, not between the Government and Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hope, myself, that I will not present too much picro and succinctly and appropriately briefly the position of the DeSUS Group on the issue cited. In short, I think that we should actually talk about the three conclusions that the members of the three coalition parties have adopted on the Committee on the Economy and that if these decisions were to adjust the length of thought properly, they would not actually be able to think at all, because the conclusions are empty because they are puffy and because, in our judgment, they are completely unnecessary. However, it is necessary to speak, simply to say that the DeSUS Group also considers that unfair tycunization should be addressed as far as possible at the outset. That this must be done in such a way that appropriate regulations are adopted in a timely manner, appropriate rules to minimise this possibility. That this requires action by independent institutions and that, where it is so established, it is also necessary to take action, including sanctioning, but not at the invitation of political authorities. That's how you get from all those reports we read to understand. I hope that today's panellists, who have spoken precisely about this speaker, about how we imposed on independent institutions and state authorities, how we committed them, how we ordered them to do something, have done nothing but "lapsuses" so that they were somehow more doomed than they actually thought they were. We are not the ones who would be responsible for imposing on independent institutions what they should do, what they should do, what they should do and how. We assess or question whether there have been meetings and this first 3. 6. And then the boards, and today's, even necessary. In particular, we doubt that - already mentioned today - the activities reported were indeed activities that have been initiated or which have taken place on the basis of the conclusions of the Committee and the National Assembly. Such a dictatorship gives the wrong impression, as if the political body were the spirit and movement of all the developments that the state institutions in charge must carry out under their obligation. We doubt that there are real timelines ahead of us. We doubt who actually prepared the proposals for conclusions, to whom he made them, and to what they should do with these conclusions, to whom he should return them as foreign or as others. We doubt that any of these activities, although the two expressly declared themselves to be such, were caused or carried out on the basis of or on the basis of the conclusions of 3. 6. As it says in the title itself. It would be good if we looked at what the institutions had said in their reports, which they said were loaded and ordered what to do. These institutions do not need to be specifically politically called upon to act, to accelerate, to intensify their work, this is their daily obligation. They have to do this "per se" without even thinking about it. Banka Slovenije said that she had done everything she was doing before that she had not waited for June 3rd, that she had also acted in writing so that we could verify when and what she had done and also found that the banks, the others she supervised, were operating in accordance with the rules and regulations imposed on them by these regulations. The UVK wrote that he was doing what he was doing now, even before, not just after 3. 6. that he led procedures and so did some others. It is interesting to note in particular what the ATVP, the Securities Market Agency, has written that it considered necessary to communicate in such a way that it once again states that they are an independent body, that they are an independent body and are not bound to any conclusions of any of the political bodies. The Ministry of Culture also acted by writing that what he was doing today had already been done. She listened a little to these conclusions and said that she would look back just in case they hadn't broken it or forgotten anything. But the Ministry of Finance was the only one who said, yes, only session 3. 6. We were awakened and immediately prepared two proposals to amend the laws. So the Ministry of Finance does not do the same as the Ministry of Justice, whose first husband, Dr. Sturm, said, and they do the laws in stock when they were preparing the Law on Lawyerry. The conclusions are completely empty, the first is that we learned something and nothing else. Others say that the Government works and the third invites the Government to produce some more laws so that it does not become too nervous in September.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u127	Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! Today we are talking about a decision which is then to be adopted in three points. The only point for me and my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party in the context of the content we are talking about is point three. In fact, the National Assembly is here to enact laws and laws and to enact such laws and laws as will to the greatest extent prevent all that has happened, regardless of who was in the first place in this National Assembly or who was the Minister or State Secretary in the Government. In fact, I am surprised that the National Assembly devotes even seven hours to all this content, when, in fact, nothing is needed of all this to the National Assembly. If we're very honest and if we understand a purely basic point, if anything happens - tell me, let's start anywhere you want, anywhere, anywhere, in either Mercator or it's Mercury or it's Zlatorog or it's a bank. It doesn't matter. Tell me, why do we have control councils? We have control councils so that gentlemen in the control councils draw such prizes as can only be described with a poem by the Government of Kreslin From the heights it spins. And they pass away, and they're deaf and blind for this prize. They're the first ones to control what's going on. In addition to the Supervisory Boards, we have the Securities Market Agency, whose task is all we wrote down here at that June session, so I don't have to list them in, I don't know, what, 12 points. We have a tax administration that is obliged to monitor what is happening, we have a Bank of Slovenia, we have a Office for the Protection of Competition, and, finally, we have a criminality service for economic crime with the police, and we have a prosecutor's office. All that is said in these points, all that we are talking about today, when we all know that this speech today is just a free election campaign paid by the National Assembly. That's not our job. This is the task of all those who are well paid and set up to supervise it without giving the National Assembly now a clue as to where the economic crime has been, so that we can find out how to give credit to the shares of the company that are being purchased with credits and so on. The sentence itself says it's one major crime, but the bank doesn't know it's given someone credit. Don't tell me. So the supervisory board doesn't know that the bank gave someone credit. Don't tell me. And I can count it. So that the taxpayer doesn't know where the funds go, what investments, under quotations that are untaxed and so on. The bad work done by all these services is why we are here today talking and babbling nonsense and going ahead with a campaign. None of this is my duty as a Member; it is only my duty to support the third point of the decision to propose to the Government that any necessary changes to the legislation that prevents what is happening should be served within the time limit set in the 10th decision of June. This is the only thing that concerns me as a Member, and I welcome the part that is again, to remind someone of what must be done, which is recorded in the decision two in the second paragraph, that we give support, otherwise it is funny to hear, to the State Prosecutor's Office, to the police and so on, to fight organised crime and so on. Well, that's their job! Do we especially need to give them this support and especially invite them to do so? They've known that since day one. My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you excellent free pre-election performances here, but once again, it's not our job and you're aware of it and you, although you're quiet, and we, too, admit that it's not my job. It is only point 3 that I will support, that the government should, in the 1960s, make proposals to those laws that will be set up in such a rigorous and substantive manner that things like this happen, because we all see what is going on, will no longer happen. The rest of the jobs should be called to work and do their work, and the supervisory councils should be paid for their work, not to have a "upturn" award, but paid to die and not hear anything, like Milosevic "I can't hear good".
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u130	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! If you've all had a chance to make your bluff or your ignorance before me, let me take the position of the Lip Group and take these few minutes. For the first time, anyone in this country knows or claims that the parking lot for the concentration of capital has not been known in the last three or four years, it is a lie or it does not read the daily newspaper. In the daily newspaper, ladies and gentlemen, all the large bells were hung by parking lots and companies today. Therefore, it is absurd to take the words of a government representative seriously if journalists, daily newspapers, have written about all of this three years ago. And now we have the High Minister of Vision, the First, the Second President of the Government, who realizes this year that he missed the issue of the daily newspaper three years ago, and that he has now come with the help of the ATVP or the Office, to realize that securities are moving when they mark the ownership of individual companies. And now let the entire National Assembly jump into, I'll say at home, the luft, trying to adopt some laws, even though we all know that the laws that have been passed, the Law on takeovers, do not solve anything. On the other hand, hand to heart, who was basically the financier of all business? All business was financed by two banks. There is no need to get a decision from the Bank of Slovenia, there is no need for big words here for the National Assembly to order, i.e. the basic financial institution in our country, who financed the transactions. These were Nova Ljubljanska Banka and Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor. And what is the significance of these two banks? These two banks are not typical commercial banks, I don't know, like Probanka, like A Banka etc., but they are banks that are directly influenced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Behind my back are people who have an impact on the policy of both banks. When the first phase of the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank took place and the extent to which the Belgian NCBs entered it, we know. When the so-called first phase of privatisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor took place and when institutional investors and domestic natural and legal persons entered, we also know. Therefore, speaking today, especially in front of TV screens, saying that we do not know who financed all these transactions, is humiliating, ladies and gentlemen. Because that means you're lying. All those of you here today wondering who financed this business - we all know that. On the other hand, it is important to point out why people who buy businesses through acquisitions resort to banks. Because of this, if we did not resort to banks and if we were to settle this from corporate transaction accounts, so that there would be no parking space and similar things, then the tax authority, which is such a very sung independent body, which has absolutely nothing in common with autonomy, would be in these companies at least six times, seven times a year. And because they're successful entrepreneurs, now I'm not going to go politically, they're probably in all the customers, they're just afraid of tax, so they're hiring financial resources, so they're hiring financial transactions to hide behind them. And whoever says otherwise again, even this one, with all certainty I say, is lying or not knowing any matter in connection with the transfer of ownership. And when I mentioned the so-called Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, there is no more political authority or there is no more government body than Durs. There is no more authority to come from the Ministry of Economy, to come from the circle of Fridays, to know exactly who and when he will go "verification" to whom and when he will confiscate the financial resources. And finally, in Maribor, we have some of these cases, when in the big pump, Meltal, they seized the financial resources, they showed up as the biggest criminals, but all of this was in three days, until it was enough for Janez Janš to find a company in Styria where he was a successful businessman. Why? Because of the fact that we Slovenians are only by nature such that everything that is more successful than us is bad and should be shown as negative - this is this famous Slovenian indignation - and although three months from this, tax experts have said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Durs have been wronged. Since then, no minister has come forward in connection with this. Even more, Minister Vizjak answered the question of the letter, mine answered a month ago, "Excuse me, but I have nothing to do with it, you know, this is Durs, the independent branch of power." But it was just Durs. If we look at what's going on with the Information Access Authority. At one point it is the largest defender of the tycoons if we take the newspapers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Why? Because they defend the laws of the Republic of Slovenia. Because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is trying to break the laws, it's trying to show someone who's guilty in advance. And of course then all the government media, what are, Reporter, Democracy, Dars' Week, Slovenian Week among others, which is financed exclusively from Dars' money, but also none of them are interested. High and high they sing the mentioned irregularities in this beautiful country of Slovenia. We all know what happened to the Court of Auditors' conclusions. That's what the public's been talking about. The Prime Minister of the Government was contacted by the Ministry of Environment and Space, the President of the Government said, "Yes, but who is the Court of Auditors to say to me that someone is making mistakes because he is with me or because he is in my work circle." One of the speakers in front of me was talking about oversight saints and administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2007, I asked the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Economy, a question to be asked about the composition, the level of the awards, the level of the meetings, participation in the profits. I have raised the topic mentioned several times in this National Assembly, but, of course, since it was outside the election year, none of this was of interest to me. Recruitment, meeting of individuals, yes, purely on the political line of the ruling majority in this National Assembly or otherwise, on the orders and under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And then, not long ago, fourteen days ago, our wonderful President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, and after three years and eight months, he proposes to the political parties, the other opposition parties, to register in their statutes that they will not be politically staffed. After all the companies, from the Drava power plants, where he put auto mechanics for members of the administration, to the fact that the head of the Slovenian government was, but I think not 25 years old boys from Maribor named Friday, he hoped the President of the Government would come and say a few days before the elections: "Wow, now it would be wonderful and nice for the other parties to commit themselves in advance, when we had all cavated that they would give up political functions in the future." One of the speeches or events that I have said several times, however, does not depend, because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is not willing to listen, is willing only to speak and talk, so that, in three days and of course, they are the biggest parking spaces, the temporary ones, the Court and Kad. On the proposal of Mr Visionak - behind me, I hope he is still there - is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - I am pleased that you can write - accepted the list of more than 230 companies that the Court and Kad will sell in the coming period, this is today and here. And it's past the National Assembly. Among them is Paloma, and if there were not a colleague of Boštjan Zagorec, Paloma in the National Assembly would not be discussed at all. It was another one of those stories that took place exclusively through some privatisation commission and so-called "acceptance". Today we talk about some conclusions, that within 60 days of the election in the State Assembly, the government should prepare a package after four years. Yes, how long does it take for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up a law with 40,000 employees to prevent it? No, this is not the purpose of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Members, each of you has had the opportunity to take such a crime to your fingertips at the previous meeting, when you voted and, unfortunately, voted negatively on the proposal of Lip's party to stop all procedures for the sale of state property immediately, as long as we do not have laws. But no, you voted against and all the stuff from the Soda and Kad are being sold, from what is directly or indirectly owned by the State, through any other institution. Today he's playing and talking, punching his chest, because we're trying. I'm sorry, but it's really "charifari."
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grims on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u132	A very nice greeting to all, including on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Today, the interesting situation of this meeting is that the opposition has announced significantly more time than the position in contrast with the previous meeting and it is obvious why. From the time of the previous session, a number of things have happened, at least four of which I will count, in the light of which today’s sessions are held, as well as those findings that are still before us today in the real light. If I were to name only the first one that is most valuable to my notions, from the point of view of research journalism. If the highest awards were awarded in Slovenia, including for photography in journalism, then whoever took this picture would certainly have earned it. For without knowing what these two people are talking about in the picture, we see a person who in the public's eyes now specialises the Slovenian tycoon in a very dominant position, giving instructions that gives a very clear argument and, on the other hand, a prominently defensive position of the informal "leader" of the opposition, which is in some way almost frightened, speaking for herself. This, colleagues and colleagues, is one of the best photos I've seen in research journalism myself in all my years, which is also kind of dealing with these things myself. Let us add to this some other things, which will certainly also be an additional subject of your approval, which I hear in the Chamber. In fact, let's see what happened to the judiciary. Not only was it when all Europe warned us that there were judicial backlogs, that it had announced a white sentence and that it acted objectively in a non-European way. However, this sentence continues and tightens at a time when the final supervisory institutions have begun to carry out their task properly. This, excuse me, is the direct sabotage of the rule of law by the one most called to defend the rule of law. This needs to be made very clear, and at the same time these people, on top of everything, are still demanding a higher salary, which is very interesting. Well, the third picture that is worth mentioning today is the question of making an information officer. They are meeting an investigator in a procedure, in particular with a surname, it was Mr Zidar; who is also in a very similar position in the public eye, as Mr Boško Šrot previously mentioned, who apparently still has a great connection with Mr Pahor, which is very clear; and on the other hand, Mr Penko. So the prosecutor who handled him on official duty and was still a prosecutor at the time. And to whom does the information officer rise up in defense?Oh, my God! Mr. Penk. At the same time, the judge, the investigating judge, who should be able to maximize the implementation of these legal standards, which are not only in Slovenia, but also in the world, in this particular area, as yet the subject of the most rigorous treatment by the judiciary, did not allow for the examination of the cars of those two who met, let alone allow for any private investigations of the houses. In some similar cases, when it came to much smaller things, for much smaller sums, I would remind you, countless investigations have been made across different houses. Here a man can't get rid of the impression, and no one in the SDS will believe that this is just a coincidence, that it's just a continuation of that logic that was so beautifully formulated by one of the key people of the transition opposition when he said, "Yes, you know, but that one is a gentleman, and that one we don't just have to drive with the stamp." In short, what we advocate in the SDS and what we believe to be a key political impulse of this meeting is a clear and unequivocal signal of policy as a whole, the National Assembly, as a central democratic institution, that before the law we are all equal, that the same laws apply to all individuals, in the same way and that no one, regardless of how much capital there is - at home or at one "kaselc" company over another person, can be over the law. Before marriage, we must all be the same! This impulse, ladies and gentlemen, is adequately covered by the report prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It touches many areas. Let me mention another one that has certainly been up-to-date in recent days and will still be up-to-date in the coming months when it comes to the obvious negotiation of some major trading companies that are acting objectively in this way as a cartel. This is also the subject of the report, too, obviously the subject of research, and unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this has also been the subject of a clear blockade by an information officer who has interpreted some law; in my personal opinion, even somewhat in a broader sense, as is the case with this institution in general, and has therefore exceeded the law itself; but in any case, it has interpreted it in such a way as to prevent the Agency from acting effectively to prevent the restriction of competitiveness and thus to prolong the situation when in Slovenia, in a certain part of trade, margins are growing sharply, profit is growing and, of course, people are getting angry at increasing prices. But at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to that part of the report, which makes it very clear that these same people own most of the central Slovenian media and that at least one part of this property is created in a clearly legally controversial way and is also now the subject of treatment. In fact, if it is obvious that ownership by those who are complicated, in one way or another, legally or illegally, in this business, even in the media, then it is obvious that such a mirror, as we often say to the media, is likely to show a slightly distorted picture. A distorted reality that proves to people that someone else is responsible for their problems. This is about the same as the unfortunate abuse of such a valuable institute of journalistic solidarity, when tensions were sent abroad about how this government censored all media on average. Finally, it turned out that these media are actually controlled by a transitional capital, concentrated in a non-transparent way, in some parking spaces, and that these are, of course, those people who can actually influence and who are obviously also actually directing the media, which in a very clear and unambiguous way revealed, pardon, revealed now the former responsible editor of Work when he said that Mr Boško Šrot specifically demanded that the existing government of Janez Janša be overthrown and that he "forced" Borut Pahorje. And that, by the way, in the light of this video that I just showed it, it only rings in the right light and in that sinister sound that such words should have. For the continuation of this story does not only mean a question or Slovenia will move forward towards the establishment of all the institutions of the rule of law, for which we also propose the relevant conclusions, in particular here also underlining the proposed one today, but also the question of democracy. Without every pathetic question - whether or not the concentration of non-transparent capital will continue to be allowed, like that key, or if you want the armor that holds most Slovenian media in your hands, or if you do so in one way or another, the appropriate steps will be taken against it. This depends on the democratic nature of this country, because people make real decisions, they make rational decisions on the basis of the data they are presented to them. However, the question is whether they are presented with a real picture, whether they have in fact every moment a full constitutional principle under which every citizen, every citizen, has the right - to an objective one, with different value points and, of course, continuously available information. We are actually deciding on this right now. Slovenia is in our firm conviction, even from this point of view, now on the right track and from our conclusions it is up to us whether or not this path will continue and whether in this way the National Assembly will carry out the task to which it belongs. However, when they come, some are thankfully already, additional measures, the legal and other measures that are within the competence of the National Assembly, and of course we will also take those substantive steps, at least for the SDS Group with full responsibility, to ensure that we continue on the path that leads us into the framework of European standards and, of course, into the framework of the rule of law. Until then, once again, I stress that the key principle and key message that the SDS Group wishes to give is that the aim of the proposed conclusions and, from this point of view, also the purpose of the report submitted by the Government, which we consider appropriate, is to give a clear and unequivocal impetus that we live in the rule of law, that we want to live in the rule of law, and that we will in fact all be equal before the law - no matter how much capital someone has and where.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'm a little caught up, but I'm still going to hold back, and all I'm going to say is that if the security guards weren't in the government's premises, there would also be an interesting photograph in 2005 where Janez Janša would also be with what you've just mentioned, that he was with our President Pahor, and he was with someone else, at the premises of the then government, where they made the cows' trades. But once again, the president's safety is ensured that no one gets near him, not even the paparazzi. The President of the government himself showed him years ago when they approached him how he was reacting. So he's also physically accounted for. We are assessing today in this Parliament the Government and its activities and, of course, its conduct. Therefore, if the Government were to do everything as Members and Members of the Coalition say, then of course we would not have another extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. We are not surprised by the fact that the Government's responses to the conclusions and demands of the National Assembly regarding the problems of capital concentration are so modest, impersonal and formalistic. Because it is itself a request for a 37th and today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly that the political advertising campaign against the tycoons of the current government, which, at the same time, removes the anti-corruption commission, clearly shows that it is only interested in the fight against economic crime and corruption as a cheap pre-election topic. The way in which the government took action in this mandate to combat corruption and Clintonism, as well as non-transparent managers' buyouts, is nothing more than a paper-based anti-Tacco war with almost zero effects on their dynamics, as has been the case with statistics for the past four years. To refresh your memory if some of you have forgotten this dynamic, two acquisitions were carried out in 2001, 2002, 2003 and 2004. Twenty-six acquisitions have been carried out in this government's mandate since 2005 to date, including all major acquisitions. And during this period, funds were also provided for these purchases, including, in particular, bank loans, and during this period, the coalition fully controlled the two largest banks, as it carried out a staff renewal of the supervisory boards immediately at the beginning of the mandate. And today, when the government wonders where the money comes from, in what way the help and similar flossules are purely misleading and misleading the Slovenian public. The State secretaries, one of them sitting behind me, these governments, preside over the Supervisory Boards and not the previous governments and the Supervisory Boards shall be composed of members and members who are chosen according to strictly defined criteria by a party to the coalition. Therefore, disclosures of unusual, "insider" managers' acquisitions via mailboxes are shocking and even personally painful for many others and not for this government. However, despite the surprise, they are actually putting an end to Slovenian transitions. The current shocking moment of truth, which shows how the main protagonists of national interest, and these also sit and quite within government coalition parties, scrupulously played and violated and gravely manipulated the entire Slovenian public, requires an appropriate response, both institutionally and in the form of valid legislation, as in the form of moral reflection of the most responsible in the country. However, the government's measures, as recorded on these modest three sides of the government's response report to the 12 conclusions of the National Assembly and with the activities of this government over the past four years, do not meet these expectations. There's nothing to reduce appetites for manager's buyouts. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are not great supporters of managers' buy-ins, as we have shown in last year, when we warned about some cases in this Chamber. But we are also not a priori opponents of some jealous and mental inclinations, for we are aware that the managers' redemptions are reality, both in the developed world and in us. Of course, the problem is how such acquisitions are carried out. The capital concentration process itself does not always take place in a public and transparent manner, which, of course, prevents all interested parties from participating and thus raises questions about the fair market price at which managers acquire shares. And a poor example of this transparency is the conduct of this government. And one of the most illustrative, non-transparent cases that this government has specifically participated in is the sale of Kad and Sod shares in Mercator. It is a business of concentration of capital that took place at the government premises, with managers who today are the subject of criticism from the same government, the same Prime Minister of the Government and ministers who sat together for one table in August 2005 and concluded these cow deals. So, the problem is much bigger when we talk about the concentration of capital, as it seems at first glance, because it is also primarily about the functioning of the rule of law and the market economy and the violations of these positions by the executive branch of government, says the Government. So, instead of having one of the priority tasks of this government in the fight against clientism and corruption to monitor and prevent the monopoly of some large companies and to disclose mutual ownership and interests, share parking and ownership through straw companies, it has even actively cooperated in the first half of its mandate on these disadvantages. She worked together until the big players got into a fight. And the cows' shares of Mercator, the newspaper Delo, A Bank, and something else in the cabinet of the Prime Minister fell into the water. Therefore, when we talk about these networks, capital and political connections, networks of postal companies, such or other experts, who together create a myth in the Slovenian space about the political elite of these companies, which sets up and removes managers, editors, journalists, it is right to disclose them. And so the important public letter from Andrijana Starina Kosem is Prime Minister Janez Janša, who discovers the methods of controlling the newspapers of Delo and Evening. Public statements by Stojan Zdoljska about the fact that the Prime Minister has personally ordered who is to be the director of the work and who is the responsible editor. And we've seen that. And today we don't see them in these places anymore. Thus, rather than allowing the Government to prevent vertical concentrations by means of its measures and legislative amendments, which would strictly prevent the emergence of market concentrations within individual sectors, it even allowed this to happen. Moreover, in the case described earlier, she was even directly involved. Finally, some of the things that are happening in this mandate, within the mandate of this government, will have far-reaching consequences. Let me mention just one that is somehow related to the management buyout, and the government is not responding to it or reacting to it. In the case of managers' buy-backs, it is not only bank loans that are becoming more important, that they are becoming important pension funds and companies, and that the selected pension premiums are being invested in the bonds of straw companies through which managers' buy-outs are carried out. This is also a key reason for the low returns of pension funds and people will be out of pensions over the years. Thus, people in the good faith of saving for the third life period fairly fill these funds and these societies, which on the other hand participate, actively, in risky management acquisitions. Therefore, the short ones will be drawn not only by employees in these companies in the future, but also by citizens who save in pension funds and companies, and also in these cases, by the government, the country, reads, does not act to protect citizens from this type of typo. This government report is also empty on this issue. So it has been four years, and the largest parliamentary party of the SDS is trying to outsmart the Slovenian public with such an approach, by citing extraordinary meetings. As in 2004, even this year, just before the elections, we are discussing customerism and corruption only under the second title: The concentration of capital through mailboxes. Instead of discussing the report, the measures and results of this government in the fight against corruption and clientism, as well as the fight against capital concentration over the past four years, we are now meeting for the second time in the National Assembly at a dry political debate. And what has this government been doing for four years? What is the situation four years later with regard to all the promises made in 2004 just before the elections? To replace the dirty hands of the previous government with the clean and fair hands of this government? Has this government, the former opposition, been able to change and correct this situation? Has she managed to instill economic crime and to tackle customerism in her own kind? The answer is more than clear, it is very negative, it is negative, the situation is even worse than it was four years ago. This government, in this area, has little to show for it, so this report is so modest, so empty and so gentle. The fact that the supervisory institutions have remained untouched for too long and that this is the reason for the failure of the fight against the tycoons has made too much of an excuse. The statements made by the President of the Government and ministers that they had not been able to do anything before, because they could not replace the leading people in these agencies, are an attractive argument for hair that simply does not contain the four-year practice of this government in such cases. If necessary, staff replacements were made overnight, including by way of certain procedures and conditions. Non-transparent sales through Soda and Kad and clienteleistic appointments of staff by the coalition to the Supervisory Council and then through their replacement in corporate administrations were an excellent way not only for the full control of the economy, but also for the systematic theft and takeover of rents in these companies. It cannot be denied here that this same pattern did not apply in the past, but with one significant and important difference, it is only necessary to add that this pattern is even more brutal in this mandate. In short, since this government is characterised by less formalized rules, clienteleism is systematically built in all times of social life and management takesovers in the way of postal collectors are only the result of these anomalies. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we have a negative assessment of the activities of the Government and the authorities responsible for monitoring that these things do not happen, and we will not support the conclusions of the Committee in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u135	Thank you. Here comes the debate on the report and the proposal for conclusions. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Minister, all members of the government, colleagues, colleagues! The report of the Government and the proposal of conclusions, of course, show a greeting and support. I believe that the opposition is at stake this time, because if it does not support these proposals, this will mean that they are fully on the side of the capital concentration, not to say a pervasive capital accumulation. All of this leads to inequality and social dispersion. There must be differences in society, and the question is how these differences occur. It is good if the differences in society are based on the abilities, innovation and work of individuals, but not on our own. It's with recklessness, often with breaking laws, inviolability. This has also been helped by our law enforcement authorities, ineffective law enforcement authorities, which, through tax, financial, criminal and legal channels, are obliged to pursue these anomalies and reject them in society but are not. And as a result, certain apathy has also developed in humans. Today, in the Slovenian space, we are witnessing the arrogant performance of tycoons in the public, perhaps a better expression than the tycoons of comrades or comrade capitalists, because a tycoon in another culture means everything but us. These Slovenians, let's say tycoons, perform in Slovenian public quite governmentally, arrogantly, almost with innkeeper rhetoric, with often bewildered performances in front of TV cameras. And in the Slovenian case, in the post-socialist period, we witnessed the so-called wild east - there is no mistake, it is not a wild west, but a wild east in privatization - just when this capital came into some strange hands. A photograph or photograph of Boško Šrot and Borut Pahor has already been mentioned here today, as Mr Boško Šrot with the index of the sug to Mr Pahor. If you showed him the middle, then you'd still believe it's about breaking up all relationships. And this indicator is pretty much done. This indicator can also show that there is a lack of basic image and bonton, including a sign of a threat to Mr Pahor. Or it's some kind of teaching pointer, if you do, you'll have to follow my instructions. Obviously, Mr Borut Pahor is unable to bend his pointer and tear down this list of history, but that is already his problem. Many years ago, Boštjan M. Zupančič wrote somewhere that healthy society has healthy morals and healthy economic ethics. What's a healthy morality? Healthy morality is the one that gives people a sense of security, a sense of perspective. Now let's ask ourselves what security and perspective those companies that came into the hands of so-called social capitalism at the time of independence, a social elite that could also be called a kleptomanic elite in some more acute rhetoric. Most of this Slovenian tycoon elite translates egoism, consumption, and often also spiritual poverty and profit grabbing. In Slovenia, unfortunately, we do not see any positive correlation between ability and innovation on the one hand and power and success on the other, but rather the correlation between selfishness, crime, non-compliance with laws, ingenuity and corruption on the one hand, and the related financial and political power and wealth on the other. As some of the people who became the most wealthy overnight in the country, I remember that in the early 1990s they were still driving a broken truck, or were some members of the municipal committee, they are now among the richest in Slovenia. Since there is no original creativity among these, which means development and progress, these companies will be able to have major problems in the near future or in the far future. These people, who in some strange circumstances have seized this capital, all this wealth, are unable to convert it productively. They don't pay their workers decently, they don't have decent quality managers, and if we look at the Slovenian yellow press, these people often appear in this press, in some role of hedonistic gentlemen who show their wealth ruthlessly. The Bank has been mentioned and, due to its indebtedness, these banks will continue to repay loans to banks for a number of years. That's why there won't be any money left for development. Sooner or later, these companies will go into stagnation, which means a setback. Let me conclude, the traditional legal system has had centuries to defend the one who had something to do with those who have nothing. I think that the remains of this traditional legal system in Slovenia are still present. Those who have illegally acquired huge assets in the past today have an interest in the rule of law to preserve their assets. They like to say, of course, that the property of the world is untouchable. Remember French thinker Proudhon, who said more than 150 years ago, as if he knew about this Slovenian tycoon elite in the 21st century, Mr Proudhon said "The property is theft". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Ljublješek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u138	Thank you very much. A respected choir! In opening, I would like to point out that I support the Government's activities, which are also reflected in the report transmitted. I believe that if we do not stop the oligarchs' march, their capital will become the economy of politics and thus the end of our rule of law. These modern-day tycoons have trampled on fundamental social values, integrity, morality, ethics, solidarity, market competition and the rule of law. To shed light on the problem - the original sin of the tycunization of Slovenia was imposed by the country's top on national interest and family silver, which were the strategies and leaders of the then political authorities to maintain a decisive influence on politics through the seized capital. The national interest has been misused by the concept of clientelistic ties between former authorities and the modern-day uplifters for the management of economic, political, cultural and media life in our country. In Kučan’s Forum 21, the most privatisation millionaires, who have connected a network of capital connections, are gathered capital elites that allow for ownership and concentration of the capital. The "in the national interest" flossula has proved to be a kind of transition cynicism and manipulation with Slovenians. When, in addition to the morally and legally disputed location of the state property, the monopolies of the seized activity were created, market competition was restricted to extremes, discrimination was discriminated against and the expulsion of potential foreign investors when the selling prices of food, drink and services were dictated to the public and to the detriment of the citizens. People today rightly wonder about the tycoon: In what way did the oligarchs come to this property with immoderate greed, immorality, fraud and denial of the rule of law. Who are their political partners? Who are the key players at the time of ownership, at a time when the largest companies were sold in a very strange way? The Slovenian transition is best described by the statement of the then state's Attorney-General Zdenka Cerar, when every major mess is not yet a crime. I submit that it has been high time for criminals, supervisory institutions and judicial authorities to investigate immediately and thoroughly, if necessary, with the help of international experts, money for acquisitions from the modern-day tycoon. It would also be good to investigate the work of so-called top legal, financial and tax experts who participated in these acquisitions, which, according to oligarchs, were legally carried out, which is a great deal of lies, dishonesty and cynicism to all citizens of Slovenia. I find it incredible that Counselor Maxime Holding's claim that the Government can't punish the tycoons with new laws is that because no one is detained, everything within the legal framework and that the adoption of new laws is meaningless. However, it is appropriate for the pre-election period and the continued claim of a colleague from the SD party that this whole topic is merely a pre-election bluff. From the subject of tycoonism some would like to make a farce of czech - dogs bark, caravans move on. Thus, Boško Šrot in his greatness and conviction of inviolability recently allowed some to ban coming to Laško. Nameing beer in a tycoon and mocking citizens on TV screens. In mocking the Scorch of all of us, all I'm waiting for is for him to call himself the rightful heir of the Counts of Celie. All of this would not have happened if Shrot and the other oligarchs did not have the firm support and protection of most political parties of today's opposition. This is also shown by his recently patronised finger "in front of" the leader of the Social Democrats Pahor. In addition, the pre-election bluff of today's opposition on future changes, on young eyes and good people, on self-restraint and a new policy is certainly a pre-eminent bluff because, as recently recorded in one of the media, "the policy that laid the foundations for clientism, economic crime and corruption in Slovenia has returned to power". To the extent that voters will entrust the current government with another mandate, I say that the opposition's pre-election bluff will take place in a legal country where all illegal acts, including the old tycoons, will be penalised where charges and penalties will be imposed. I am confident that the activities of law enforcement authorities will continue, that all actors will experience judicial decisions and the seizure of illegally acquired property and that we will finally breathe into a legal, fair and responsible country. I support this report on the Government's activities, the proposed amendments and conclusions, and expect further urgent action by the Government, supervisory institutions, law enforcement authorities and the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr Hvauc or Mr Fabjan have the floor. Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. For centuries, great minds, scientists, and technicians have tried to invent a perpetuum mobile machine that does its work without receiving energy. After thousands of failed attempts, in 1775 the French Academy of Sciences announced that it would no longer support such attempts, because it was simply impossible to get something for nothing and from this point of view such a machine was not possible. At first glance, it seems that the Slovenian tycoon has only managed to find or find such a machine, to prove that such a machine can operate without taking energy or in this case money. But it's not like that. The energy of such a tycoon machine, the company draws at the expense of workers who will not receive as much wages as they could, at the expense of small shareholders who will be compensated for dividends and draw on the company's future development. But the only thing these famous tycoons have undoubtedly managed to prove is that, despite all the physical and other laws, we can only get something for nothing. One of the most famous tycoons, who not only got something but hugely, for the average worker unimaginable and in many generations unattainable assets, but today with small screens he often smiles at us, turns to friends, but I hope that workers who have worked for many years to repay his very great gain will not fall upon his cynically spicy friendship. The concentration of capital is only the final finalisation of privatisation or privatisation in transition times, which, of course, would not be possible if sufficient capital were not available. In spite of the fact that the Bank of Slovenia is convinced that, in most cases, management acquisitions did not significantly exacerbate the exposure of banks to acquisitions or acquisitions and that, in most cases, the banks did not violate the rules. But there are a few questions that I have to ask. First of all, are these rules appropriate for our times, for the transition state, for the situations in which we have simply not been able to compare ourselves with other developed countries, where these systems, control systems and others, have been operating for many years? The second question is, what have small businesses, small, micro-enterprises, independent entrepreneurs lost? Have they received such a generous service as some were managers? And the third question is, did the banks take due account of the level of risk for all the committees, for large enterprises, for medium-sized enterprises, for entrepreneurs, managers and finally for natural persons? Personally, even because of one personal bad experience, I'm not sure. When, as an ordinary citizen, I came to one of the business banks for a few thousand euros of credit they just told me, sir, you are employed as a member for a certain period of time, the risk is too great and there will be problems with this loan. When a tycoon comes to B, such as Buha, he gets 10 or 100 or more million Euros of credit in his eyes, which he will repay with some future income and which will be secured by shares that are not yet his own. I think that's a bit of a dispute. That is why, of course, I support all the efforts of the Government and other institutions that seek to mitigate or prevent such contentious phenomena. I am sure that, even as the Government's report suggests, the Government will also, of course, find, with the support of the National Assembly, another measure to prevent further disputed acquisitions and that appropriate measures will also be sought to remedy or at least ease what has happened in Slovenia, in my opinion, in a very controversial way already.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So far, I have listened with interest to the debate, and I must say that I am; this is now addressed primarily to colleagues from the coalition, especially from the SDS; that this fight against corruption and the concentration of capital reminds me of a rare but regrettable phenomenon in firefighting. The pyroman fires the fire first, and then we put it all in with the others. And that's about what this fight against corruption and capital concentration looks like. All that you are so hard at fighting with words today, you are so powerfully putting up your voice, your emotions, even though I cannot speak of reason, has come about and is the result of these very actions of yours in this government in these four years. As a term, the tycoon did not exist in the Slovenian language before that. He appeared with you, he appeared in your frameworks and this form of concentration of capital and manager's redemptions, and in these dimensions they are now. Before they were here and there, it is known that a former government was very unfavorable to these management acquisitions, for example, it did not allow the takeover of Mercator and so on, you have relaxed all of this and now you are fighting the consequences of your own actions. I must strongly agree with what you are saying, I agree with Mr Tank on negotiating in personal, friendly circles, on selling without public invitations, Mr Tanko your boss, the leader of the parliamentary group, could not describe the meeting better with the President of the Government when he sold Mercator to Lashke and Istrabenz and thus triggered a whole chain of events, to which he also reacted economically and ultimately a whole range of events also in trade. The fight against capital concentration is not what it is supposed to be, at least not in Slovenia, but it is the fight for re-political takeover of major and important takeover companies, which it has almost slipped out of hand and which you want to get back before the elections. There's no other way to understand this. Today we are not talking about data, we are not talking about facts, we are not talking about analyses, we are talking about some ideological convictions and qualifications. And I only hope that the Slovenian economy in good and bad is so far away from politics that in the way you imagine it will never happen again. Lately, you also have the habit of scaring people, especially the Prime Minister of the Government, said what would happen if the fight against the tycoons and the concentration of capital in trade failed and there would be even higher food prices in trade. It's a paradox. There's already higher food prices. I can only agree with the President of the Government if this fight succeeds, the prices in the fight will be even higher, because it will destroy the little competition that is in this trade. I don't have any good opinion on Slovenian trade to understand each other, but what you're doing in this store is exactly what you're going to do, destroy. And this rhetoric you're dealing with, it reminds me of the period after Kavčič, when traders and commerce were convicted of being the chief sinner and culprit. Traders were a political center of power. Trade does not create, we would call it today, value added and, of course, trade causes inflation. And that's what you're saying today, and you've been fighting it for 30, 40 years. I don't know where that's gonna get you. I have to say that I'm concerned and that I know a single result. They're really gonna be [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Even higher, if that's how you're gonna fight the tycoons and the trade. [[...]] Of course, we should rely on independent market regulators such as the Competition Protection Office. I am not going to talk about the previous Competition Protection Office, and I think it would ever be a little better if you acted faster or better, none of us need to defend, but still. What is happening today, what the Competition Protection Office and Mr Sorsak are doing, is a demonstration of power. The impound of computers, of course, has nothing to do with finding an alleged cartel deal, but it has to do with a whole range of other things. Let's see what they've actually seized. In fact, they seized the hard disks of trading systems. Not only the email you're talking about, they've seized all the customer information, they've seized all the information about me, about you, all the data from Mercator's, the Shower's cards, they've seized everything that can get our bank certificates, they're getting our current accounts. If they want and want to look at mine, his shopping behavior, 10,000 and 100,000 people. This has been seized and this has been prevented by the information officer so that the Office for Competition Protection has an insight into this. And if so; I think we should be grateful to her. Let him search the office for what it has to investigate, and that's documentation relating to possible negotiation. But taking over and seizing complete computers, with all the data on people, including you, of course, the piece exceeds any jurisdiction to intervene in data protection. That's what I'm worried about, and, of course, no one looks back. The fact is, of course, they can control you too, and perhaps some president would like to know if you are suitable for candidate lists, and he will take a little look at your shopping behaviour if it is appropriate and dignified. So, I wouldn't be too sure, I'm not saying that this happened, it's not because she's an information officer, thank God she stepped into this process. And it's clear we can't afford that. In 1984, negative utopia, even in 2008, with the government of Janez Janša, must not be allowed. And I hope that democratic institutions will endure the test and that this fight against clientism, corruption, concentration that has never really been, but is simply a struggle for political domination, that this fight will not end with the backdrop of democracy in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your speech. Dear Members, honourable Members, Mr. Minister. About a month ago, we had an extraordinary meeting on the subject of capital concentration and issues related to media ownership concentration. Well, today we are considering or fulfilling one of the 12 conclusions that the Government must report on what has happened in this area, what it has done, and I must say, I am very pleased that today we are discussing this issue of concentration of capital in Slovenia. Why? Because in this country today we are really facing a situation that is not normal, which shows that the rule of law does not really work in this country, and not because of this government, as they have been trying to show since the first day of this government's appearance in opposition parties, because thank God, this government is trying to make certain things happen, which I think should have been improved at least 12 years ago, but they have not been, but this legal state cannot be realized mainly because in certain places for years and years, people are mainly in the judiciary and the economy, which are somehow related to the failed LDS, which is being formed and so on, and to the Social Democrats. It is immoral, but it is obviously possible only in us and in this country of Slovenia that the prosecutor working on a particular case within the prosecution team, in his spare time, is repeatedly given to him who is dealt with within the prosecutor's team. But with us the media, here the opposition does not debate how it is possible for this to happen at all, but they are delimiting mainly on how it is possible for the so far untouchable prosecutor or an economist to get into handcuffs. This is the biggest problem with the opposition and the media. Truly amazing, but this clearly shows how some in this country are not concerned with finding the truth. And in connection with judges and prosecutors, it is also totally unacceptable that judges today strike for salaries which, by the way, were higher than they were during the LDS and SD, but then the judges did not strike, probably had nothing to do with, certainly had nothing to do with. Mr Rob, who was Prime Minister at the time, and Mr Pahor, did not deal with the prevention of economic and economic crime and, of course, did not need to strike, but today, when this fear is so great that cases such as the untouchable Mr Schrot and the untouchable Mr Zidar must be dealt with differently and clearly to strike. Similarly, in 2004, John Janša won and won the elections with the press. Journalists were saying, not before, not later, but they were saying that day, and it was urgent that day, I don't know, they had to talk to Murgle about what to do next, because it turned out they weren't forever. Thirdly, why does it seem important to me that we have this meeting today? The Office for the Protection of Competition and Mr Soršak. It is only in this country that it is obvious that someone, in this case Mrs Information Commissioner, can seal all the documentation that could prove that there has been cartel negotiations between traders and thus an increase in food prices. Sorry, but this is a disaster, a disaster that is even possible, because I am convinced that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are clearly interested in why food prices have increased significantly more than in the rest of the European Union. But we can't find out because someone sealed this file. I also believe that they are interested in whether they had to buy more expensive food because of an agreement between traders and, secondly, perhaps even because of tips from left-wing political parties to raise food prices in order to make the government of Janez Janša appear incompetent and as a result of such inflation and price increases. And for all this I am seriously interested in, even though they are laughing at the SD, but I believe that citizens and citizens are not laughing when we talk about these issues, I am interested in where are all those representatives of political parties who are repeatedly advocating social justice and in my opinion we should be the first to shout at all the voices when the information officer did this and sealed the documentation from which we could see whether citizens were buying significantly more expensive food due to agreements between traders, even if maybe there was some policy involved in this agreement. This certainly seems shameful to me for this country, and it is high time that we had a man at this Office of the Ombudsman who wants to get to the bottom of it. Until now, most of the people of this Slovenia did not even know why we have the Office for the Protection of Competition, because it was its own intention. And what I think is still very important inside this session is also a situation that is completely abnormal and extremely absurd. The media situation in relation to capital bonds. It is amazing when the person who has acquired capital in dispute is extremely contentious that I will not say an illegal way that controls the largest media house in the country, a statement, and I will repeat it again, even though I am already in the last session that his newspapers must write in such a way and in such a way that they will work for Mr Borut Pahor. This is what he says to Mr Borut Pahor, mentioned earlier, Mr Schrot, and he must work in such a way as to bring down Janez Janša. I mean, this is insane, this is really insane. But this same man has now gone one step further. This man was your member until recently, but then he withdrew because he was probably such a deal because it was best for you, if you want to save your own skin, he went a step further and on the front of the work because he owned it, wrote that Janša threatened him with arrest through couriers. Today, when everyone asks him who these couriers are, he says he won't betray them because he won't betray them. Really interesting, it's already a film script, so interesting. It is also interesting that the work with this move really fell to the level of some cheap yellow press, which is on top of all other lies. In short, this man doesn't want to tell you who the couriers are, even though these couriers are supposed to be Yanshe. I don't know. I don't understand. He doesn't want to expose them. But, well, probably Mr. Shrott just made them up because he could afford it or because he could have done it on the front of the newspaper, Delo. The concentration of capital certainly did not start under the government of Janez Janša, it started substantially earlier, and the legislation that made it possible was already, but now these things are being corrected. Unfortunately, you don't want to be involved in persecuting so-called tycoons, but you're involved in protecting these so-called tycoons. And here's the main problem, and here you're going to have to seriously think about it and seriously ask yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr. Drofenik has the floor. He's quitting. Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u146	Good day and thank you for saying so, Mr President. I must say, the fantasy of the human mind, which writes the performances of some in this room, does not have limits. The best point I've heard was that the left parties, in total, in a conspiracy with traders in Slovenia, caused a very large increase in food prices due to the dissatisfaction of people in Slovenia and that the Slovenian Democratic Party would lose the elections. That's exactly what was said, translated into everyday language, I didn't say who said that, I said one of the predecessors. I must say that we are not speaking today, this item of the agenda is not intended to talk about cartel negotiations, it is not intended for the actions of an information officer, it is not intended to discuss why Mr Zidar and Mr Penko have been detained. Because these three things are certainly not the subject of today’s session. These three topics, therefore, are, say, why Mr Zidar and Mr Penk were detained, were not about concentration of capital, it was not about tycoonism, it was about, as far as I know, suspicion of tax evasion or tax fraud, which is not the subject of today's meeting, dear lady. And because of this, I ask the President, on a procedural basis, to keep an eye on what your colleagues and colleagues from the bench, the leading coalition party, say in the future. They're shooting past. The topic is the concentration of capital, the topic is how those who concentrate capital have come to money, the topic is in particular the report of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the 10 conclusions of 3 June 2008. I hope to say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within 30 days, has done almost nothing, in excess of the deadline, I think it is 19 days more than it was because the report came last week to do something more than nothing. For example, it is interesting that it has not found that it will now take exactly three years, since it has allowed the emergence of so-called tycoons, motes or now we have found that the word oligarchs are beginning to appear, everything shows that we cannot use beautiful Slovenian words even for things that are a misuse of trust or I will say the abuse of the current situation in transition. As a result, I would say that the bishop’s colors and church colors in the National Assembly cannot do just as much to make people believe everything we have just heard. I would like to point out that at the Committee on the Economy, we heard the representative of Banka Slovenije, who said that they were already in 2005 at the end of the year, I would like to point out the interestingness, that in August 2005 an agreement was reached on the maximum takeover at the time, and this was a takeover that was agreed almost three years ago in some special premises, not a prison, but somewhere else. However, the consequence is that some people are now threatened with imprisonment, even though there have been no proceedings before the prosecution and before the court, and I would like to point out that there are still a few reservations in the use of terms on how to lock up, how to confiscate property - I fully agree that action should be taken when it is determined in court, by the fact that the whole process is going as it should, without fantastic TV shows where people are being robbed and dragged to marks, because when something similar happened to the closure of a time 20 years ago, there is no one who is not bothered, not by ordinary foxes, and they have not put it in the box and so on. So, times have been very different, but nowadays methods are much more similar to revolutionary methods, which you always like to criticize, than were methods 20 years ago. I'd still like to go back to the government's report. If this is what you are gentlemen and ladies of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I will be quite specific, I must say that your expectations for your government are very poor and that this report is also appropriate. Nothing happened when Banka Slovenije warned that loan rentals with securities guarantee were already taking place in 2005 at the end of the year. Nothing happened. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also been warned about this and has done nothing about it. It is said that the first signal was given, but at that time it was not interesting to chase the so-called tycoons, but at that time it was necessary to press down because all the following steps had to be taken. Interestingly, one name in this National Assembly is hardly heard or heard by the coalition, except when specifically called upon. It's interesting why that name doesn't ring a bell, but it's also worth counting that name among that group you call a tycoon. I think and I think that my colleagues in the party of the Social Democrats, that these things really need to be cleared up, but without the media pump, without advertising to get points with the voters for the elections, and that it is necessary to leave these things to the judicial authorities and authorities to pursue peace so that they can review and verify these things as they need to. But if someone thinks that justice can be achieved in a way that scares people, I think he's very wrong, because you're not just scaring those 3, 4, 5 individuals, but you're scaring the whole of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Marinic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Respectable all together, present! I warn the Slovenian public, I will not intimidate, but I will tell some truths based on evidence from the parliamentary commission of inquiry, which I have had the honour to lead. Allow me to illustrate before this the feeling that I experienced recently when I was outdoors looking at the theatre performance My dad was a socialist tower of a well-known author who was also present after the sighting. He got the word, and he said that this address would be passed on to some sort of "my dad's capitalist tycoon" nowadays, but maybe it's already coming off. However, Slovenians and Slovenians are certainly following us today, because we need to be aware that, despite our modesty, some of us are disappointed at some imprudent, non-transparent sales of state shares, shares of Kad and Sod in the past. This did not start with the sale of Mercator's share, but started in the early years of Slovenia, somewhere after 1992 or more prominently around 1996. Here today I very much miss our fellow Members who are; it is not important for what, but probably with the help of some prominent political leaders, in Slovenian public known; somehow they fled from one political option to another political option, where they found a suitable haven - from LDS to SD. If, of course, you are working in the Social Democracy for the welfare of the Slovenian people in some cases, it would be necessary to ask, of course, whether there is room in your kind for such. Undoubtedly, we have devoted quite a bit of space and for some time to these strange works, which have resulted in many Slovenians and Slovenians harming Slovenians and Slovenians on the basis of such imprudent, untransparent, non-disclosure sales of state shares. Mr Anton Rop was Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Court, almost two terms. That's from 11. 3. 1993 to 20. 6. 2000. You know that at his time in various functions, almost 1,000 state shares were sold in Kad and in the Court. And all these shares have not been sold in a public and transparent way, of course, that many political Februaryes and experts have participated under the so-called cover of national interest. Much has been said about this national interest today. That these sales resulted from the concentration of capital, which we started to talk about publicly last year, this year at an extraordinary meeting on 3 June. That, at this time, after an extraordinary meeting on 3 June, the Government has recently provided us with all the required information to force the Government to do so, despite the fact that both Members and Members of Parliament, including individual members of the Government, would prefer to be on a well-deserved summer leave, but we are still obliged to carry out our function until we confirm our successors. Who will be our successors - let us leave, respected and respected, our constituents and voters. They know very well how to assess, and they can well reason to tell us how they are following us. Who fights for what, who is responsible for what, and who thinks seriously when he speaks of prosperity for everything and for everyone. This is not just a floscule, it is supposed to be an act that reflects every and every individual among us, even though we are truly in the pre-election period. Let it not be an expression of everything between us that it is an extraordinary session just because we are gathering political points between the electorate and the electorate. We are working and carrying out our mission until the end of our mandate. Of course, much of what I want to say is not enough time left for me to finish. However, let me also, if I have already pointed out my colleague Anton Rope, who is unfortunately not here today because of other obligations, is also not among us our fellow Member Milan M. Szvikla, who are in fact great advocates of these transparent, public works, but have in the past proved themselves that this is just a dead letter on paper, everything but what we would expect. In short, today's consideration of at least these points will be a sincere truth in order for the Government to bring about appropriate amendments, additions to legislation in this area, which would prevent and limit further action as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u149	Thank you. Mrs. Lahovnik has the word - she's giving up. Mr. Pike.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Greetings to all present. Yes, the conclusions that I am prepared to support, I am of course in favour of the Government's activities in this area. I also support the activities of the National Assembly, a respected National Assembly, which is working to normalise the economic situation in this area - as regards the concentration of capital. I'll try to talk about the concentration of capital. And it is only right that we discuss this. Why? In order to at least normalise a little bit, at least put a little bit into normal democratic rails this economy, which I cannot say has been so far. Why? If a takeover is made that is not legal and small shareholders cannot sell shares at the price that they could, it is fraud and are carried around by small shareholders. If capital is concentrated in various "by-pass" companies and it accumulates there, it is accumulated for large sums, which are, say, a billion and a half euros class there, which is 15% of the Slovenian budget, so about. Who can tell me that this has been done in the last four years, as my respected colleague, Paul Gantar, has claimed that all these concentrations have occurred in the last four years? That's too much money to be able to do in four years. We have heard, of course, not from opposition Members, but from positions that this is a long-standing process, that this has started many years ago, that this has increased. Why did this reveal itself today? Because we've changed the law. Otherwise, it wouldn't have been exposed today and some parking company would still be protected today, under some cover, and no one would know who owns it. And of course, to whom can we thank, respected voters, that this has occurred? Amendments to the legislation. Who backed this legislation? Of course not the opposition. She's been supported by a position! The situation has supported such legislation that it has become more transparent. And that is why I support, I simply support these actions, that the economy will be more transparent, that it will be more competitive, at the end of the day, and that part of this money will be poured into the labour market, that wages will be higher, and that our economy will last longer in severe international competition, that it will be easily competitive in the international economy, because such exhaustion, that is, the depletion of the economy, can lead to business failure and we do not want it, no one wants unemployment and no one wants to take over other businesses. Why? If that's not necessary. But we can also say that, in support of our words, that this is already a long process, that the reason is that there has been bad legislation in the past, which we thank God very well, and I do not say that it is the best thing to fix anything in this mandate, that there have also been political partners, otherwise it would simply not have been possible to do so, that they have said that this is a national interest, that I do not see in this national interest that they have weakened the law enforcement authorities on purpose, that they have not been able to prosecute these low-income people, and that they have dealt primarily with the road and the hot thieves. That was the problem. Of course, it is possible for the peaceful souls to say, even the courts have added their weight, although they would not criticise it because it is an independent branch of power, but the fact is that something more energetic can be done in this area and done in particular for the benefit of a small person, in favour of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! It is interesting to hear a variety of debates mainly from members of the ruling team, or from the SDS, and especially from my predecessor, who has now made it clear and loudly that the coalition or Government is the one that adopts laws and other matters, and that the position here has nothing to do with it, and I agree with that, so you will be able to pay the final bill yourself. But I have to stop with this picture and with Borut Pahor on a visit to Laska, because I was there in one of the pictures. I have to say that some of us have been going to Beer and Flowers for decades and we are dating because of Lascank and Lascanes, who have a 40-year tradition, but some of us, gentlemen, had reserved tables on VIP boxes two years ago, so that those of us who were recently there were not able to come to the VIP lodge two years ago, because some of us were getting fat, eating, drinking at the expense of the so-called tycoons. Today, however, we are the ones who openly go to Beer and Flowers, marked as I do not know what kind of people. However, some of you have a bad conscience, but you simply did not dare to be photographed or appear in Laško. Yeah, Pike, you were, but you were very secretive, and probably no one knows you either, and there's nothing to take pictures of you. Mainly, Your Honor, today's session is due to a kind of swallowing up of words. The session is kind of full of lies, deceptions, deceptions, and pre-election performances. At its 37th meeting, the National Assembly adopted conclusions which in some way oblige the Government to notify us of anti-Takkuun measures by 3 July at the latest. The government didn't do it because it just doesn't have anything to show for it. Even more so, "benigna" is the content of today's session, which we are forced to address in an extraordinary way. The biggest government party, called SDS, is expected, otherwise the Social Democrats are expected to adopt these conclusions that you put on the table today, but I tell you that I will not personally accept them, because they have no weight and no real possibility that these conclusions could even be brought to life in real life. These conclusions in some way say that we are all familiar with the system, that the Government is continuing its activities in the fight against the tycoon and that it will also be possible to propose any law in the fight against capital concentration and the tycoon. Government, I must say that I truly congratulate you, but I must also give you a good morning. I don't know what you've been doing for four years of this term. However, I must tell you, the respected Government and coalition, that it was you, whether you want it or not, who created these so-called tycoons, that these so-called tycoons were successful economists two years ago and with whom you liked to take pictures after various handball matches, went to various dinners, while these successful economists, managers, or they were no longer willing to pay for services to some of the SDS circles, became fast tycoons. That's not how it works with people, respectable. If four years ago you were full of mouths, how much customerism, corruption, and you came to power with this rhetoric was right, I agree with that. But when you came to power, you gave this clientism and corruption an abnormal acceleration and the political culture changed. It changed so that various meetings took place, meetings with the President of the Government with successful economists at the time, where you agreed on various purchases, which cost us a lot of money for citizens and citizens. And today these economists got out of control, so you called them tycoons, and you don't want to admit it. I'd like to say a lot more about this, and I'm just not going to see how some of you were very kind to these tycoons two years ago. And it was precisely because of such matters that the plaza of tycunization in Slovenia was eliminated. People who do not know each other clearly need to be told that Kad and the Court sold to managers so that they could come to this wealth. And when and the Court were supervised by you, Your Honor. And many times they've been singing phones, when, how, how. But if they didn't have these so-called money tycoons, they gave them money, and you were monitoring the banks. The President of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank is sitting in the National Assembly, his head is likely to have a headache today, probably two years ago his head didn't have a headache about how to give credit that way. And we stop all the time in this Laško and I am not defending Boška Šrota, but many others, many irregularities have been committed in Slovenia. If I speak, only the Slovenian steel industry was sold to Iskraemec. But there were prominent members of the SDS who have not now resigned from your party, but that's all right and there they could get their revenge, and here the problem is different. The government, I must say, has been afraid of the bare facts, so it has also, in some ways, gone to the tycoons and tycoons in such a way that it can now make pre-election stories. She also hired various agencies, counselors, how to do this, stories as late as possible and the fight against the tycoons is ideal and popular for people. But I have to say that to do it in such a way as to make movies in the sense of James Bond, a lot of gray and blue light, and in the end nothing can be done, or you can do things in such a way that some of your visible members can function normally and slowly "accept" what is not "acceptable". I am in favour of respect for the rule of law and that all those who break the law are responsible for it, regardless of political colour, wherever it comes from or whatever it is. The one who made the mistake of breaking the law must answer. But everybody. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Even tycoons, I absolutely agree, including tycoons and politicians. [[...]] During all this fight with the tycoons, I will say, members of your party are doing a fine job with state companies, in which for four years there is no longer a market economy, but the government can sell matters to state companies only those who have a Slovenian Democratic Party membership card, because the market economy is in a different way. But these are things that are not enough money, and you're not interested, and on the other hand, it's a very interesting thing. Mainly, I hope that this story about the tycoons will be resolved in the courts, that those who are really responsible for the cases will be held accountable, and that there will be something else to say, who has allowed these tycoons to really come to this wealth, which I do not think is the most morally right. But I hope that in the coming years or months they will also discover and perhaps one of them, even in this hall, will not laugh so sweetly and be so pleased over the breakup. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Allow me because it has been mentioned several times that the Government continued with some policy in this composition, i.e. with some policy of imprudent sales of state property through Kad and Sod. I have to say no to that, and I will give you a few arguments for that. Firstly, the takeover law adopted by that Government, unlike the previous government, also includes the shares of Kad and the Court and the States in the takeover legislation, before Kad, the Court and the State were not subject to state legislation and are, in turn, new. So, we set the same standard as for acquisitions also for shares of Kad and Sod, of course this was not before and it was a whole bunch of fog. Now that I'm listening to how many downloads have been published, it was precisely because of the tighter legislation that there were so many, the takeover legislation and the number of downloads published is the number of lawfully taken-over procedures, rather and unfortunately still some, but increasingly less due to the effective work of the Securities Market Agency, through parking lots. [[....]] Alone, as Minister, I have warned you about this publicly and clearly in the media, I have been criticized for setting up and representing a company here, which happens to be also from Posavje. Two years ago, I pointed my finger at a company where it was more than clear that it was managed through parking lots and there was no takeover offer and calls by the competent institution for this to happen. Thus, with the adoption of legislation, Kad and the Court became part of the takeover story and, finally, it was also a more transparent treatment of the property of these parastatal funds. Secondly, the Government adopted a clear plan for the withdrawal of the State from economic operators, for large systems and for Kad and the Court in 2006 about two years ago. Here we have also made very clear how to sell these shares, unlike previous governments and previous political botts set up by these para-national institutions, the investments of Kad and the Court were divided into three market, non-market and strategic investments. For each investment, approximately the date or deadline within which Kad and the Court are to change into a portfolio investor and also the method or procedure or principle of how through public transparent procedures. That's what this government did. And that's why it's really hard for me to listen to comparisons, like the Slovenian steel industry just said, so I also had to come by, because the Slovenian steel industry was, this is the real state shares sold in part, the country has retained a control share of 25 plus 1, so without a country, no one can make any statutory or substantial change in this company. And what's most important? The profit that now, thank God, creates the Slovenian steel industry, is invested in updates, in new investments, and you have mentioned a parallel with several publicly disclosed acquisition procedures in connection with Laška. And recently we were able to read in the media how many dividends of one company from the Laško up system go. That is to say, dividends go to owners because they need money to finance all these matters, that is to say from the company, the company is at the expense of such a strong dividend policy, which exhausts the company with a lack of development, not to say how much, respected Social Democrats, the disadvantaged are employed in this. So, here's two stories. One is the Slovenian steel industry, which was sold out to the best bidder through the international public tendering process and the other is a blurry takeover story, the result of which is an exhausting dividend coming from the company to the owners and that is it. And always, respectable, especially when we can see links between some companies and media owners, we need to follow the traces of money, who are these people with their last name and name, who are these people whose political options are. And in addition to these measures that I have listed, the government has done a number of things in other legislation, and I have mentioned something in the introductions. One thing that I think is particularly important here is that, for the first time so far, the work of supervisory institutions is independent, not based on any dictatorships. Some Members have even touched on this alleged past dependence or independence. One of the Members said, "What the Competition Protection Office is doing today, we cannot allow that." That was said, Sir Gantar. If you have sometimes dictated the work and allowed something to the office and did not allow something to the office, this is a problem and we do not want to repeat and continue this problem. Therefore, in the mandate of this government, we have established an independent professional and efficient work of the supervisory institutions, so now some names that you don't like, but, God help me, I think they must be primarily those on the sad bench who are guilty, not those who are interested or not, and, of course, I am not saying that these people are guilty. This will show procedures, but let's let the control institutions take them out. Let the supervisory authorities take them out and let the courts do their job. I therefore assess the work and this session of Parliament and the previous session, which has been called for useful. Why? To get a clear message from Parliament and the proposers of this meeting also all the other institutions that provide the rule of law system. These are in addition to the government, the National Assembly, and certainly the judicial authorities. And in the sense of creating a healthy future in this country, it is right that these institutions also hear this and, of course, take this call into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Han responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u156	Just to remind the distinguished minister, I hope he doesn't have such a short memory. When you were selling Mercator or you would say that you were not, otherwise Kad and the Court, and I don't know who else, when Mr Squeakl and gentlemen, Lakhovnik, pointed out that the meeting that was at Mr Janša, you said that everything was transparent and that, while you were talking about the southern markets and so on, the government would help sell beer in the south and so on. It was Mercator's sale, but this Mercator sale - also your investigative commission found that Mercator's sale was transparent, good, and today some who do not know much about the economy say that it makes food more expensive and so on. And second of all, Mr. Secretary. When Mr Cwickl of our Group drew attention to the Mercator's manager's buyout, pardon Mercury, and when he advocated the same thesis as you, that loans would be paid with dividends and so on, you laughed in government rooms and said that this was not the case. By slowing down the thesis that the Social Democrats have been giving and those findings are coming on the day, you're the only one who wants to take over the game now, and I hope that people will not buy it, despite the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Gantar has also responded to the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Sure. I've been mentioned. First of all, I must correct the wrong statement made by Mr Minister. I have not talked about how the Government or the former government or this government cannot allow the Office of Competition Protection to do anything or not. That's not what I was talking about. I spoke about the fact that the Office for the Protection of Competition, in order to fight against supposed monopolies, has actually collected all the data, information and copied all the disks in these companies and has come to a whole range of private, confidential data and that is, thank God, and I have said that the information authority has prevented such data from being used and used for various political purposes, such as purchasers. I don't know, I only know where he went or where he went or where the former Director of the Competition Protection Office went, but I do know that he didn't go to the LDS Club like the current Director of the Office of Competition Protection at the SDS. Otherwise, the Mercator agreement was given by Janša, which was financed by the NLB in which Igor Marinšek, a prominent member of the SDS, is a bank which is mainly or where the state still plays an important role. What are you talking about? Once you turn to yourself, look at your own actions, what you have done and what you have not done, and stop, for God's sake, just observe and watch others. Ask yourself once what you're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u160	Of course, my work, honourable Member, is always overturned and in the eyes of this House. You can ask me questions, you can start other procedures here, and that's actually quite clear. I was just telling you what you did. You, and read in the magnetogram, have made it very clear that we cannot allow this, this way of investigating the Office of Competition Protection in the negotiation of the largest trading chains. So you're starting to work as an independent regulator. If this is a legal state, then you very, very poorly understand it. Read what you have said before you replicate. And the other one. Your Honor, regarding Mr. Squeak, you're here and you're here about the way in which the acquisitions are financed. This Parliament has adopted a law that has made it even clearer to prohibit financial assistance. This is said to be the financing of acquisitions by setting up shares of the target company. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Listen. [[...]] This financial assistance shall be prohibited at all times in the Company Act. If I, too, thought that the Securities Market Agency could interpret broad financial assistance as it was written, this would not be the case. At the GAG, financial assistance has been banned all the time and has always been banned and is only a matter of control institutions how. We wrote it even more clearly in the takeover law. And so, when you mentioned Mercator. It was all these misinformation and hints that occurred with regard to Mercator that led the government to accept that package and the country's withdrawal plan also from Kad and Sod. For so many insurrections and instigations as have been made regarding the sale of Mercator, where all the supervisory institutions, not only in this country, have found that no damage to state property has occurred to the European Union. As much as you had to say about it, the government has recently led the government to set a new standard in this area. Although Kad and the Court had been in possession of these shares until then and in the past, when you made up the coalitions, it was a rule that there were no public tenders, public tenders, but it was enough that one who, of course, was friendly, with three more offers convinced the seller that he had sold the share. That was the rule. Here too, the President of the Commission has made it very clear to you. These are not just my findings, these are your findings, the parliamentary commission that investigated these things.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u161	Thank you. Yes, before I give the replica to Mr. Gantar. See, the next ones on the list have been waiting for quite some time: Juban, Gaber, Anderlich. I'd like to ask, I'll give the last replica to Mr Gantar right now, and then Tanka also came forward as a proponent with a word. Then we'll move on to the list. Please, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u162	Thank you very much. I hope it will be the last one, but of course, Mr President, it is not up to me. I'd say, look, Mr. Minister, I don't have to read a magnetogram, because unlike some others, I know what I'm saying. And that's the first thing. It's the other thing. What I have stressed in my performance is that in a democratic society we cannot allow such things and such data captures that contain sensitive private data of people to be seized and tried to use in procedures as they were guided. And that's why we have democratic institutions, thank God that are working, that have prevented it - for once. No one is opposed to the fact that the Office for the Protection of Competition is fighting in a legitimate way against the alleged or real, whatever, monopolistic or any arrangement, but that does not require an insight into our payment cards. That's what I'm saying, Mr. Secretary. And a second time. That's all I'd say around Mercator. President Janša himself said it was a mistake. So, what's the matter? Was it a mistake or was it a mistake? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, as a proponent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. But this technology of the debate of opposition Members is characteristic of this mandate. At any time, any topic that touches on history, events prior to this mandate, and when it hits their interests, it begins with slander, insults and similar matters. We did not have any bad intentions in proposing this point, but we want those who are called upon to do so to do their work as they are expected. We, when we opened this agenda point when we opened the debate on detected illegal activities in the concentration of enterprises, could only find that when certain personal changes were made in the institutions which are empowered to do so, we used and called this meeting to also gain and exert additional pressure on the Government to propose improved legislation and to give support to the authorities investigating these matters. Also in order to give support to the authorities investigating these matters, because all these independent regulators, the independent institutions that this country has to protect the interests of citizens in order to protect the rule of law in order to protect the interests of consumers, have dropped the plasma of accusations from all sides, from the anti-corruption Commission, from the authorised to public information, even the former President of the country has taken the view that these authorities should not act in such a way against persons for whom he has raised suspicion that certain things have been unlawfully brought to light and that some procedures have been unlawfully carried out. Typical of these two genders being separated, that is to say, this positional and opposition part, is the very attitude towards this organised crime and corruption. That's exactly the way I feel about it. We do not care who committed an act, a corrupt act or an act of organised crime in this mandate or in the previous term, whether it is on this side or on your part, we have no problem with that. We are in favour of the view that the State must be, that the laws must apply equally and that the authorities must act against everything equally. This does not mean that those who have taken a little more have some special status and bring them into custody with a Mercedes, and all those who have taken a little less, with a net on the stamp. For all the same. This country has rules written in such a way that they apply to all equally and must be applied to all equally. As far as the attitude towards crime is concerned, it is typical of one other point. When we proposed proposals for conclusions or also called an extraordinary meeting on 3 June, there was a very uniform declaration support in the National Assembly to come in any way or at that time to support all measures preventing organised crime that prevent corruption. When we have taken decisions that confirm this, which translate this verbal part into practice, I do not think that any of the opposition Members voted in favour of these decisions. This shows the attitude towards and here shows the actual attitude of the opposition to specific cases of organised crime and corruption, in the same way as talking about a parallel world. One is words and the other is acts. The words and actions in this part in your deliberations and in your decisions are not the same. Speak one, do another. With regard to the story that the colleague has shown, this is whether anyone can tell me between you, these two gentlemen in this picture are capable of ensuring competition in trade. This is what consumers really need. Is this possible in this way? [[...]] [[Intermediate advertising.]] Pahor wasn't even in Laska. [[....]] Also, Mr. Anderlich, I may be photomonting in this National Assembly. One more thing I would like to mention is the seizure or sealing of documentation. With regard to the measure taken by the information officer, I do not think that it is appropriate from the point of view of the implementation of the measures of the rule of law and the protection of competition. The Institute for Comparative Law, led by Dr Ude, a former constitutional judge, very often your advisor, has even written this publicly in his opinion. Thus, Dr Ude, former Constitutional Judge, Director of the Comparative Law Institute, stated in his opinion that the Ombudsman had exceeded the powers of public information and exercised a disproportionately excessive measure. No problem is to release that part of the documentation that goes into this process of verification of arrangements, cartel arrangements or any agreement between those operating and operating on the Slovenian trading market. There's no problem. What Mr. Gantar shows is fog. And if we are to take any concrete action in this area and also to pursue relations, we must have the same attitude towards corruption, to acts of organised crime, to the crime of white collars, if you want. Whether we're in the coalition or we're in the opposition, or vice versa. This is the only way to realize the rule of law. In no other way can it be realized. And it's obvious that "possessed" matters of past times are so powerful that you're also willing to overlook them. It is said that you tolerate certain persons who belong in your circle, different actions, different actions, different moves than those you recognize to someone else. And all these things in some way you're trying to banalize with some, I don't know what kind of stuff. In specific cases carried out by specific institutions, specific infringements have been identified, concrete procedures have been initiated, and I hope that these procedures will reach their end. If they confirm what is suspected, then I hope that the trial will be closed in time, despite the ruling and other blockades of some institutions. If these suspicions prove unfounded, the procedures will be stopped, but do not obstruct the procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u165	Thank you. Mrs. Pechanova, you weren't quoted. Well, that's a debate. You'll be back to the Sodialds. I give my word to Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I am puzzled about how to participate in such a confused debate, which may not even be confused, but it is already a little confused. And what I'm listening to here is, first of all, I can't get past the fact that, in some sense, I'm replicating some of the opposition's accusations, which is responsible for not running in this country where they should and I don't know what not to support conclusions that, for my understanding, are completely pointless. How the opposition should block the operation of criminal services, prosecutions, courts, one office, another agency. It's the opposition's fault that the procedures don't run. After four years, the opposition is guilty of not taking part in the persecution of the so-called tycoons or the concentration of capital. Most ridiculously, I apologize for the expression, but I must say that some left or opposition is responsible for the price of food, something you don't hear often. I was involved when this matter took place in monitoring the reasons organised by the Government. Two, three ministries also participated in the Office of the Government for Macroeconomic Analysis. And exactly as a percentage, they've cut down on how much they're involved in designing food prices. The Ministry, led by the Minister present, has gradually begun to change the reasons for the food price to energy and agriculture. Incentives, that's where they come in. Today we find that the price of food is the responsibility of the opposition. How do we fold this? And if I go a little bit more thoroughly to the actual price of food, one part is really what the ministry says, and the other part is government policy. And when talking about what's wrong with these mega systems, let's be concrete. Was Jankovic not replaced by a man of the government coalition or the largest government party? And Mercator controls most of the food market and the opposition will be responsible for the price of food in Slovenia. What's so crazy, you really don't hear it often. I apologize for the expression, but the way or the subject, as discussed, is really strange. Mr. Minister, I am pleased that you are ready to listen and answer in this Chamber, but the sessions are also being recorded. And you always bring back some sample example of the sale of Slovenian property. And when this thing first came to light, you said that Russia really bought for 300 million that Slovenia got, the rest goes to development, here in this hall, look at the magnetograms. You're saying today that there's profit in development. What's the difference? I'm allowing the possibility that you weren't there, but that's not today's subject matter. Or is it? It is said that there are 1,000 cases in which the opposition opposes clearing up, but we are talking mainly about Shrot, let us be frank. We use the name, only Shrot. Where are the others? And it's true, you're right, there are some things that are already funny about how some people make fun of all the institutions in the system that are supposed to be chasing these kind of bastards. I agree they're bastards. Some things are really bad. And where does the power to make fun of people from all over the system come from? Some make fun of each other, others make wise excuses and laugh. Search for answers. They say if anything happens, John will come with us because we worked together here and there. Mercator is a typical case where Shrott recovered most, in the cabinet of the President of the Government, and then forward. I don't know how, but that's how it went. You can say a hundred times that this sale was transparent, this term is used, but that's how it was. Not to say what was going on, I was deposited in the archives of the National Assembly, who participated in 1991-1993 when Slovenia was on its knees. With what and how they traded and where the money is. And they're emptying out some state-owned companies today. One is problematic, one is that in Slovenia, and one part of the property is in foreign banks, so we are told by the experts of the situation, criminals, representatives of educational institutions from this area, in order to open accounts in foreign banks to reach donations and barbarisms to the bottom. One and the other. That's what you said, left and right, red and blue, or what you called them. Yeah, that's what I'm for. Thank God. But then it'll be interesting. And the yellow press. We also have the blue press. Tell me to a colleague from the coalition, or from the biggest government party, where the money for 370,000 copies of a newspaper that people get every week, on Saturday morning, and how the selection is made, every family, 500,000 households, that one gets one, but one doesn't. Some psychological sociological structure of households is designed to get one, but not one. I don't get it, and my mom gets it because she's registered to another number and so on. And we've already talked about it here, so we can hear it, so I'm just repeating this story. Such a newspaper is said to cost a million euros a month, along with others who have been created, defaming political opponents and their families. I was among them. You all know that. That's why I'm saying it. If you feel it, you see it differently than if you keep track of it. And in the end, a very common term is the parking lot. Do you know where the biggest parking lot is? In Moscow, where money is parked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has reached out to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I have to repeat some facts here over and over again that are perfectly clear and that come out of the treaty and I will repeat it again. By selling, that is to say, in the sale of shares of the Slovenian industry steel to a Russian buyer or the best offer that came at a public international invitation, shares were sold at a higher price, including professional independent prices. The purchase wasn't the only criteria for choosing this buyer. The further development of the company or investment provided by the new owner to the company was also a very important criterion. And both together and some other criteria, such as ratings, such as, last but not least, the strategic market provision plan, were up for pick-up and once again: shares were prepared for a Russian buyer of approximately EUR 100 million; for 250 million additional money, the Russian buyer undertook to invest in production through a contract and, of course, as a source of these investments, it is also a dividend. And not only that, all the dividends over the next three years will also remain for the Russian buyer or pardon of the Slovenian steel industry and cannot be paid by the Russian buyer and not by the state. These are facts, and this is how the state wants to train this concrete economic industry at the time of the steel industry - I will wait, because then again the question will be the same and my speech will be empty. [[...]] - In this way, the country wanted to ensure the long-term competitiveness of the Slovenian steel industry, to modernise its investment in production and to ensure that several thousand steels have a future. Now I am glad that there are several hundred more, because this system employs new people and needs new metallurgies in contrast to previous times, when we have always spoken with sadness and with red numbers about the Slovenian steel industry. These are numbers, these numbers have been forwarded to Parliament, and the honourable Member here is absolutely no mystery, and we don't want them to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr Tanko made a statement as a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Just two words. Typical of these transition issues that we talk about is that it always answers with the story of weapons 1991-1993. In previous mandates, this story has been investigated by several investigative commissions, your Mr. Moge was a permanent member of the investigative commissions, one he even led, you had a government, you put pressure on the prosecution, and in these 15 years, you might have found something, and you might have initiated a procedure, if anything in this case proved to be true. It's nothing. It's fog. It's just a story about the story and what I said earlier that there's a fog going up permanently. What kind of MPs do you have if they haven't discovered anything in 15 years? At the same time, you had a government, you led governments, you had a majority in the National Assembly, you led investigative commissions, you were members of investigative commissions. Let's close this story once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u172	We could make a lot of contributions, Mr Tanko, to bringing this story to a close. Now you really have all the levers in your hands. We heard today that we don't want to be involved in the hunt for the tycoons. And thank God that Mr Soršak has come to the front page of the work that is not in the hands of the coalition. That was said here today, on the cover of Del. He was on the cover of Del. But how can you understand this insistence on the debate and confirmation of some conclusions that you suggest differently than not trusting any institution in this country? First of all, you set up a theme, you get it into headquarters there, I don't know where you have it now, but it's probably close to Triglav at this time. Through the National Assembly, you produce the biggest problem in this country, you make your own decisions, you impose on the Government to do something, and after four years of rule. And then you ask her what she's done after these conclusions and what these conclusions are supposed to be other than an expression of distrust to the institutions. For if that were the case, we would not have accused everyone on average of not supporting the prosecution, how the police, the prosecution, the court, and so on, doing their work. There are voices here, we can't wait for any judgment to end, what kind of process is completed, someone is closed and so on. Please. You're criminalizing everything in this room. From all acquisitions, forecasted, unannounced, unparked, on sale of one share, another share, third share and so on. The difference in Mercator was between 100 and 300 and 90 was the purchase, and for 300 he sold those shares that he bought in the way you gave him. You know that. And where did the difference go? In the pocket of the man who discovered this operation. And please, Mr President of the Commission, he didn't want to talk about it, so you say that Parliament has set up this committee. No, Mr Minister, this was the SDS Group's investigative committee with the assistance of coalitions and I also think that one of the satellite parliamentary groups. Tell me how we, as the opposition, should help in this hunt for the tycoons, if we suggest something - you refuse to take part in the adoption of any law - you refuse. Do not allow any thing to go in the direction of improvement and so on, legislation and other regulations. After all, I've heard someone say today, and I can't wait for the government to bring in the marriage solutions that we're going to stop and so on. But why did you take your conclusions a month ago, and you didn't do it at the time? Why didn't you do it? Now you can't wait. Yes, yes, but please, if we have separate branches of authority, if we have independent institutions, then it's irresponsible, paternalistic, whatever you want, patronizing all those to whom you claim to be independent. Either way, you've put in every institution of the last boss, vice chief, secretary and forward to the doorman, in all this institution. I won't go in line, but we'll be able to look into it. Without our assistance, even if there has been opposition, opposition, consideration of these arguments, you are now writing in your proposal for a conclusion that you would like the National Assembly to call, as it says, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the Government, within its competences, is carrying out activities on the basis of conclusions and, in the next paragraph, the National Assembly gives support and so on. Yeah, but you haven't given them yet? You didn't provide them with material resources? They did not provide legal frameworks if you knew that laws needed to be amended and made possible in such a way that they could be implemented in a successful manner. Why didn't you do it? No, Mr Vizjak, keep talking about the takeover law, how you brought it, how you accepted it, when you accepted it, what you had done before, and do not say that it was not necessary to publish acquisitions before, and so on, when a concentration of capital was reached and so on, it was also mandatory to publish the takeover, of course where they worked transparently where they worked in accordance with the ZGD and other laws. I don't see any serious problems here. But I'm concerned that we don't understand each other's roles clearly. I understand Parliament as a legislative body, as a supervisory authority, but not as a body giving instructions to the government, agencies, the prosecution, the police, and I don't know who else. This is certainly not the role of Parliament. You've come so far that in the '60s or earlier, you could have come back to the time of the Chinese revolution when it was necessary or anyone who thought he was wrong went to the CK and reported a neighbor or whatever, we're so far now. And Parliament will have to ensure that those who call for the adoption of appropriate laws are provided with funds, and there is nothing else that needs to be provided here. Give support to these authorities, give the customs officers an appropriate salary, classify them into the relevant system without jeopardising them with a sentence. If that's really the problem, I don't know if it is or not, but you know because you have everything under control. If this is the problem that certain authorities cannot work, carry out their tasks and bring things to a conclusion. Of course, I'm not saying that every trial that's going on has to end with a conviction, because the public expects a lynching, the public expects blood from some, I also expect that somewhere, they get it wrong because someone got the wrong order or the one who took the order didn't understand exactly what he wanted, maybe he just wanted that they wouldn't sit together at the same game with two people, but they misunderstood and they just shut him down. I understand that it is possible that someone misunderstood this, but this is not the task that this National Assembly would perform. I'm pretty sure it's wrong that every two months you call a meeting, that that's all you like and say with your finger. Only now that the warden was on the cover of a newspaper did something start to move. I used to believe that these organs must be as few as possible on the front pages as we know one case, Mr. Member sitting in the National Assembly, when the first officer said, "We are breathing for them as a collar. They're here. They're ours. We only need a moment, and it will be order, and justice will be served." Now it's none of this and it's been on TV every night, it's been in the loop every night, he's breathing for the collar, and I don't know, the prosecutors have been there, and so on, maybe he's been involved in subjective circumstances that affected him, a web of circumstances when he had all the support, but maybe back then the opposition wasn't interested, I don't know, but if he thought the way you think, he'd probably understand it, but I don't understand it that way, they were ineffective, or they'd lead to where they led him. There's no way you're gonna be able to convince me, at least not that I have to be involved in the hunt for tycoons. Tell me how to do it. I don't want to, because that's what the authorities are for, but here I've heard from you five times today, the opposition is preventing, refusing, and so on. That's not what I'm for in this country. If you do have them, if you do, then you also have lists, I know that you have nothing without lists and nothing by chance, it is all organized, all of this in preparation, then relax as you have released Slovenia, release these organs from the ropes that somehow push them down and cannot go on, but probably because of what you want to do through the National Assembly, condemn everything on average, you cannot achieve by leaving the case to the authorities to bring things to an end and once a year, as well as by law, the report of the prosecution, and by the second law of the other authority and so on. And that's our job. But you don't show up here every two months, and I don't know, I could call it a tragedy by which you actually say what's wrong, but through conclusions you don't propose any legal action or any other, but just support. But who does not give support, I ask you kindly to urge that one of us does not give support to all the authorities in accordance with his authority, then this is simply a lie or a move to the extreme limit.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr Minister addressed the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Unlike some of my speakers, I feel that this debate is useful and necessary in the Slovenian Parliament. In fact, the Government and this Parliament have taken a number of legal measures and have also created an environment where these anomalies of the Slovenian transitions started after the independence of privatisation and have now been flooded by the functioning of the rule of law or by the operation of some institutions slightly per day. It is also right for Parliament to define itself to do so, in particular, because we hear very different interpretations and, finally, support or non-support for these developments. In fact, they come on the day of the story when a former municipal official comes into the company and leaves the company as owner after 10, 15 years. There is an estimated value of over a billion euros, based on some kind of hiding with some companies, and this seems perfectly normal to some. I don't think that's normal. I believe that even those workers who may have worked for 40 years or 30 years in these companies who have worked for a modest salary do not seem normal. And it is right, according to my assessment, to face this or the legislation we have has finally begun to work, whether it has also hit the right targets, and whether, in the final stage, the supervisory institutions are also professionally, organisationally qualified for independent work. This is the purpose, among other things, of such debates in Parliament. And it's not just the purpose. It is also intended to communicate a strong political signal, including to other independent branches of government in this country, in order to effectively sanction violations of the law. For the inaction of judicial or ineffective action is the same as that of those branches of authority. If the epilogue takes so long as it is outdated and I do not ask to force me here to repeat those events that we experienced at the time of this government, when some of the judges, when hundreds of the files fell out of their closets, some are obsolete, some have forgotten to file some procedural documents and thus things are obsolete. I think that this debate is also a signal to these institutions to work professionally, independently, but effectively and to place their expertise on some level higher on the ranking. I don't know. Many cases show that it is necessary to wait for certain judicial epilogues for a long or inadequate time, and there is no other purpose here, as I have estimated, than to clearly define ourselves all together until these events and to inform the competent to set, even more ambitious targets or even more decisively against these anomalies. So I, Your Honor, think this debate is more than necessary and in place. And legislation, no legal action, was heard. The takeover law, the Company Act, or a whole set of laws, the Competition Protection Act, the Culture Act, including the laws in the field of finance, banking, insurance and so on, have been amended. All in terms of functioning or establishing an appropriate regulatory environment for the functioning of the rule of law. We have found that it is not just in legislation or that it is no longer the cause of legislation, but in supervisory institutions. That is why, of course, we have strengthened them. In some ways, too, when there is such a limited human resources plan - and we want as few employees as possible in this state bureaucracy - we have managed to secure a larger team at the Office of Competition Protection. These are measures by which Parliament or politicians can help these independent professional institutions. And I find it quite amazing that even what happened in some of these transition tycoon stories is not extremely illegal. The fact that a person has been hiding behind a company for two years, and at the same time bypasses a whole bunch of procedures, and no supervisory institution has found anything and even the most exposed lawyers have told us that every pig is not yet illegal. Yes, I'm sorry, I can't agree with that, and that is why I will do everything, and I support Members on this path to say it as soon as possible. As the Government, as the proponents, we also listen to these institutions, whose legislative proposals in this regard still need to be corrected. And there is also some greater competence among these materials for employees at the Office of Competition Protection in relation to inspection. That's what we're going to suggest. We will propose and probably if there is any other proposal - we will also propose it. And that is not true, honourable Member, when you said that no comments by the opposition were taken into account by the Government. We have taken it into account - We have extended the takeover law to a whole set or to a significantly larger volume of non-disclosure companies on the basis of the opposition's proposal. That's what we did. This is also done with the latest amendment to the takeover law, although I believe that this is not the essence of these transition stories. The essence of these transition stories was the inaction of supervisory, independent supervisory institutions. And if we interfered with the protection of these directors, once again in this House, the Director, for example, of the Securities Market Agency, was legally protected as a polar bear. Nothing could have happened. There was no reason to get rid of it. It wasn't. And you called all the swaps "the Cadre tsunami" and the result was that the work was also so obvious at the end that it itself led to a completely different one, so when the new director did one thing, he did it with more than the previous one, I don't know, in four years. So this debate is useful and necessary, and I take it that way, and I believe that most of the Members in this Parliament as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich responded to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u176	Mr. Minister, you know that stuff about hay and needles, don't you? You know that? Perhaps you have taken into account a needle in this hay pile, and you have taken just as many initiatives in the entire mandate as you would weigh the comparison between a haystack and a needle. How can you, after all, have in four years turned all the legislation that you thought needed to be turned over? You have replaced all the supervisory institutions which; even you have sat on certain supervisory boards and the Secretary-General of the Government and the Secretary of State and so on. Now it's hot, in quotes, of course not because of summer, but it had to be removed two months ago from Primorska somewhere, I don't know exactly where he was, the Secretary-General of the Istrabenz Supervisory Board and more. And now you're talking about how much of this month's legislative changes you're going to bring, I don't know how many legislative changes you're going to bring in to make this work even better. You come with results not with general conclusions. That's all it takes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Bajc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government. Not today's debate, not today's material, nor the debate about two months ago, did it convince me that any competent authority has found that, in terms of privatisation, at concentration, I do not know how we today named everything illegal. For once, I think that you, too, Mr Minister, have mentioned that we can only talk about suspicions. And I also believe that for the time being, we can only talk about suspicions until the competent authorities, either the agency or the office, or the police, or the court or any competent authorities find out. The second thing I would like to say, and I hope and here I will also say that I have been involved in the adoption of legislation, that this legislation, which has been corrected by the Government and in part by Anderlič, as my colleague said, also by taking into account one needle in a haystack, will contribute to the fact that the competent authorities and also, as you said, today's debate and debate from one or two months ago have contributed to the fact that things will start to improve or that the competent authorities will do their work for this, but I hope that they will do their work on a legal basis. What is said is what is written, and what is written either in the constitution or above all in the laws of the field. However, I would like to point out that I am not most confident about this for one simple reason, because it is only for the politicians to see that there were a lot of thugs at the concentration of capital, that there was wild property and so on. And we're just talking to politicians right now about tycoons, talking about oligarchs and the like. I would like to reiterate once again: no competent authority has yet identified this by means of a legal act. And that's it. Unlike some colleagues who have discussed and rejected the proposals for conclusions and the amendment to the second decision, which, in today's debate, I will support these conclusions, I will also support the amendment to the second draft decision for one simple reason that those bodies listed in the second paragraph of Article 2 or the second decision will carry out their work without involving the daily policy and politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Steba has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u180	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Today we are talking about concentrations, about managers' buy-ins, about their financing, about events, and not about legally established illegalities or criminal liability. The aim is to seek additional and even better measures in the interests of citizens and the country. But I'm extremely surprised today at the perversion of some of the debates here. Perhaps, for starters, I would mention only this, the skirmished prevention of work, the really engaged Office for the Protection of Competition. Where the public information officer and the guardian of respect for the protection of confidentiality and privacy of data prevents the procedure from the official person, the regulator whose task is to identify irregularities. This is similar to the one for any official in that country who looks at intelligence or in any record of your personal data or business data. He doesn't have this authority anywhere near here, in my opinion. And this is not about exceeding powers, as this is nicely legal, professionally said, but actually about interfering with the execution of an organ's procedure. The task of anyone who has access to privacy or confidentiality is to protect it in accordance with the law. If it were as Mrs Musareva explained, then no one would be able to cut into any documentation because it is not known whether there is personal or confidential information inside and simply cannot be affected by this documentation. I even think that and I hope that, on a classical record, on paper documents based on a court order or a duty, in this case, the regulator of the Competition Authority, the owner of those documents has a duty on the basis of a judicial decision to allow access to those documents. And you take the map and you cross it. In doing so, you are obliged to protect the confidentiality of this information if it is personal or business data. What's going on now? Mr Soršak is talking about the multitude of sealed computers - but today most of the documentation in selective form - and the inability of law enforcement authorities to comply with the rules to access, easily access these data and see whether the indications they have received and whether the judicial decision for which they stand are relevant, or whether it has an adequate basis in these data. Nor was the inspection of the SCT Director's vehicle allowed, for the intervention of the authorising officer. I don't know if it's Penka. See, with such understanding and with such action by one of the authorities, you simply block and completely inhibit the functioning of the rule of law in this part. I think that this is extremely unacceptable, even I think that, as you have to hand out the key to the room, closets or cashiers to access the documents, the owners of these computers should give the passwords and codes and enable them to function further. I will conclude with this because I would like to give some more time to my colleagues, but I will publish the rest elsewhere on the website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u181	Mr. Gantar, you weren't appointed, you weren't quoted. He talked about things like you, but that's not the reason for the replica. Mrs. Zupan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Government's report on the activities on the basis of the conclusions of the National Assembly adopted in early June concerning the issue of concentration of capital falls on holiday time, but I think it makes sense that we discuss them and take a certain position on them. The State must create an appropriate legal environment and control and ensure fundamental social conditions in order to minimise the growth of organised crime, which, however, can never be completely eradicated. However, legislation is an important condition for fighting successfully against organised crime. And the government has prepared changes and amendments to the laws, and the National Assembly has accepted them. It is legislation in the area of takeover, which has been extended to all public companies, has limited membership in supervisory councils, has ensured greater transparency of procedures and increased awareness of shareholders, and has also made changes in the management of supervisory institutions. The fact is, in particular, that the supervisory independent institutions have been ineffective for a long time. And right in the report of the Competition Protection Office, which is an independent institution, I would like to take a little bit longer. It is not until recently that this office has begun to function more seriously and, as the report itself notes, this self-disclosure of ownership through so-called postal mailboxes has been due in particular to the procedures that this office has been conducting. In the seventh point, the Office presents the activities it has carried out in those 30 or less than 60 days and in the third point represents activities relating to the determination of concentration in Pivovarna Laško, in Istrabenz and the conduct of concentration assessment procedures, including in some other companies. Cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia is defined in point 5. The Office has been informally involved with the Bank of Slovenia for a long time, formally following the amendment of the law. The report of the Bank of Slovenia concerning the business in these companies, where managers' purchases are to take place, can be seen that the bank has observed an increase in credit activities, with the warning of individual banks to provide greater reservations and also more capital. She's been through the insurance. It found that credit is usually secured by means of securities. In some cases, this was not the case either, then this was subsequently done, and it could also point out the role of supervisory boards that have a different role than in companies and wonder whether the role of supervisory boards in banks owned by the majority of the countries was always the most appropriate. But most of all, I was surprised or attracted my attention to the point where the Bureau states that I would like to see the prosecution's complaints more up-to-date and more cooperation with the police in the field of forensics. In doing so, I wonder: Do we have enough control mechanisms and institutions that can cooperate with one another to provide adequate evidence? The evidence in the criminal proceedings is known to be collected only by the police and the prosecution, and other evidence, such as tax or other authorities, is needed. And isn't there a lack of cooperation between the authorities and the main problem that no transition affair itself has received an epilogue in court? I also find it important to answer the question: Have the prosecution and the police, at this time, staffed and professionally strengthened themselves with experts in the fight against organised crime? Because it is known that the police show a lack of adequate personnel. It is also worrying to leave people of these kinds, either because of poor working conditions or because of misunderstandings. There is also a lack of such knowledge among prosecutors, particularly in the field of criminality and economics. With regard to the seventh point highlighted by the Office in relation to activity, I allow for the possibility of amending legislation relating to access to electronic business communications in the search of entities. We'll see how it goes. However, in the Government's report, we can see that there is no talk of the introduction of the financial police, which is also mentioned in the conclusions or there is no comment on the 11th decision on the revision of the treaties. However, I believe that it will take more than 30 days for the establishment of the financial police and for the revision alone, more than 60 days, and I am confident that these two conclusions will be answered. The concentration of capital is particularly significant for transition countries. Therefore, it seems important to me that the state is establishing mechanisms to become a war against the tycoons that have fallen into the area of illegality, a permanent practice of the rule of law. And it is in this direction that I support these activities and I wish that not all these activities remain just a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u183	Thank you. Mrs. Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The Minister, who, unfortunately, is not currently in the Chamber, mentioned earlier that such a debate as we have here today in the National Assembly is very useful and necessary to face, he says, whether the legislation will finally work and whether we will finally begin to sanction the infringement or the violators of the legislation. Well, if this is the best way to justify this debate today, then I must say that we have obviously fallen even further than it originally pointed out and that things are very, very low in the area of legality in this country and in the area of combating and prosecuting economic crime and organised crime. That's how you'd dare say it. But just as human wisdom says that history repeats itself as far as farce, so is today's meeting, which is the third in the series of "soap" sequels, we can see that any further meeting of the National Assembly on this subject is even more far from the concentration of capital or tycunization of Slovenia. Some speakers have been able to demonstrate here today an extremely expert knowledge of the law, legislation, the situation of the rule of law and so on. In short, it would be worth thinking about some of the things that we have heard today. And I wonder where the government's been for three and a half years she hasn't noticed what's going on with state property? How does a harmful process of concentration of capital in the hands of a handful of individuals take place before her eyes? And how does the systematic damage to small shareholders, those who are to the greatest extent responsible for the accumulation, increase and nobility of state assets in recent years take place? The government has not recently seen anything at stake in these proceedings. Two years ago, I asked the President of the Government in a question from the Parliament: "What will the Government do or what measures will it take to stop the erosion of the rule of law and to enforce and consolidate the rule of law and to establish this rule of law?" The President of the Government then replied to me, "There are no problems and no erosion of the rule of law, so there will be no government action." After a good year since then, the Government has clearly noticed that we are witnessing the dismantling of the rule of law, that the supervisory institutions have not been trained until recently; this is what the President of the Government has been saying here; therefore, they have not been qualified to exercise their powers. This government has been working to abolish the Commission's anti-corruption mandate all the time, especially here today. At the same time, it has consistently delayed the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption, which is precisely what this Convention requires as an independent and independent body to fight corruption, which the Government obviously did not want at the time. These are indisputable facts. I also asked myself, in many of the questions sent, when will the Government finally propose ratification of that United Nations Convention in this National Assembly, but things have been delayed and delayed, always with some very strange and questionable excuses. In the mandate of this government, which advocates the protection of the interests of small shareholders, a share in the Slovenian steel industry was sold for small money and for the detriment of small shareholders. The Minister can speak as much as he wants today, but the fact is that this was sold for small money and the fact is that small shareholders were damaged. Then, of course, for small money and for uncertain promises, Iskraemeco was sold. Kranska IBI, which is supposed to be worth 20 million euros, was sold with knowledge and support from the Government for EUR 3 million to a company that does not even have a mailbox. That's how we made sure. As for the events in Paloma, the government obviously washes its hands and wipes its hands. Let's not forget. People who are members or very, very close to any of the government’s political parties played a key role in all these sales. These are the facts. There's no need to elaborate and speculate here. That's why, of course, it's logical that the coalition shouts, "Take the thief!" they can't impress us, and not all those who are able to judge things with soundness of mind. It would be very interesting to answer the question - where did the Prime Minister of the Government get the inspiration that he called the managers who were rich in the way that they secured their loans with the assets they had bought off with these loans by means of the word tycoons? The original meaning, as far as I know, is that I took the time to figure it out -- the word "tajkun" comes from the old Japanese name of military dictators. Very interesting. Military dictators. Such a military dictator, who had all of it, and in particular military authority in a particular province of Japan, was called a sei tai shogun. The British and Americans, who are known to be practical in these matters, have coined an abbreviation of the tycoon. And in modern times, this has also become a name for an influential capitalist. But I have to say, as an interesting thing, that I heard on Russian television a long time ago, that they also have tycoons there. This is also what President Putin called them, and one of such tycoons is incarcerated, you know, rich Verezovski. But it's interesting. He became a tycoon when the political opposition became ruling. That's when he became a tycoon. Before he cooperated with the government, he was obviously something other than a tycoon. So that some parallels that are amazing are very interesting in every way. Well, now that I've talked about the state of law. In one of the SDS debates, I've heard something like this: But now you're going to hide behind the rule of law and under the cover of the claim for the rule of law, are you going to protect the tycoons? This, I'm sorry, this is really messed up for me. And this is what you said: "Our government is capable of saying that big pigs are also a crime." Ladies and gentlemen of the Slovenian Democratic Party, obviously we still have a major problem with the rule of law, so to speak, a growing problem every day. The problem is that the government is obviously the one who will tell the authorities and the judiciary, who are the criminals or perpetrators of crimes, who must be put in jail and for how long. Now I am calm because I can see that my colleague Pukšič has finally joined us, because, as far as I can understand and understand, he is preparing such a list to make things so much easier. However, the obvious question is, what does the law stipulate, for example, which act is predetermined in advance by law as a crime. And a completely redundant cover is, for example, the issue of respect for legality in this country. It's strange, but first I heard, the last time in a long time, the President of the Government, who laughed at the words, "Every big pig is not a crime yet." Yes, of course it's not, unless it's already defined as a criminal offence in a criminal code. Until yesterday, this was the rule of law and the rule of law. Now, if from now on, when we have tycoons with us, something different, then, of course, it's another interesting thing more in this country. Otherwise, there will be elections in a good month, so everything is allowed to lie and manipulate facts and truths. So who's today and here's our real "sei & tai shogun"? Or who held the bag when Mercator was sold in the government palace? So let's stop pretending and there's no need for any support, no prosecution, no authorities, they can do what the law tells them to do, so they can legally exercise their powers and powers, and we're doing what we're called to do. That's what they say. We're the legislative body. And if we ever listened to suggestions and criticisms and warnings, this legislation would probably be a little bit better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor. He's quitting. Then it's Mrs. Shirca's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I would stop for a moment at that part of the report that talks about the activities of the Ministry of Culture, especially in the light of, if you have, who has a good memory, those discussions that were at the turn of the millennium in 2000 about how Slovenia should organise ownership in the media. And she wisely decided then to release and not restrict ownership in 100 percent ownership of the individual media, but to make other restrictions and prevent certain interlinkages. Indeed, the Ministry says it will revise and will renew certain procedures and certain certain measures that have only been taken since 2004, when it ruled and when it has decided in cases of agreement on increasing ownership of the media. What is strange, of course, is: Why should the Ministry control itself in 2008 and verify what it was doing in 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007? Where it was, it wasn't working right, and now it's doubting that it wasn't working right. And look at one interesting answer that we find when we review ownership in the media after years. Let us see what the key and the greatest object of this policy’s desire is, this is said in the informative newspaper Work: What was the ownership relationship? In December 2003, I'm sorry, 2004, I'm summarising the data, Pivovarna Laško had almost 25 percent of her share, 2007, during the time of this government, when she is; but here we also have a spokesman for the media department, Pivovarna Laško has suddenly become the owner of 75 percent of her share in the media, which by the way, there is nothing wrong with the law, because the law allows it, but now the ministry is going to revise what allowed it to happen, it will review the materials, because it sees that something at the Laško Brewery is not right, and elsewhere probably. In short, she'll be looking for if there's no way to get any concentration that's supposed to be right, I'm talking about ownership. And in 2007, all of a sudden, at the end of the year, this is said to be December, the stock is withdrawn from the stock exchange and ownership is 100%. But you let it happen, and now you're wondering what's wrong here and you're going to go revise it. Why? But we would not think that it would be necessary to look ahead and, by the way, examine the legislation that we supported in 2006 in the share that says that both the agency and the office should be strengthened and their role activated, by the way, we supported this part of the law in the opposition, which was eventually written and prepared during the previous government. In short, crazy, you are now going to study the systems of how to be right, the law you changed in 2007, in short, allowing for 100 percent ownership. But where's the catch? The "Catch" case is in a famous letter, which also has a date, dated 2007, signed by Andrej's friend from Styria, Mrs Adrian Starina Kosem, because it was then what she wrote. That's what she gave us, I'm reading what she gave us exactly one year ago, two years ago, sorry: "I was told that after Pivovarna Laško gained a significant share of capital in the newspaper house of Work, we would have a long-term impact on the appointment of the Labour Supervisory Board and thus on editorial policy and so on... I will not say everything that happened in the administration because it went beyond taste and dignity." Finally, he says to his client: "We are not Bolsheviks, but a party based on democratic values. The President, the Prime Minister of the Government, has, by the way, insulted me and interrupted communication..." And then here one scenario went down, and now because this script is broken, it's going to go back. What were you doing wrong, where have you been? Where have you been so far to suggest how to do something that we've already done? In short, I know you haven't been anywhere, because you haven't done too many things and you haven't done enough if you're talking about the director's directorate for the media, but that's something you have to say. I don't wonder, and neither one of us wonders if it's possible that Laško, who has a good bottle, is also a good media owner. That's not our answer. These answers must be found elsewhere. It is clear that in Slovenia we have such a solution that there is a need for thresholds that are limited by law to control. This is where the office and the agency play an important role, as well as the world. I don't know, you gave the consent you're now wondering where it was. You started ruling when the Lazko Brewery in Del 24% ended up having 100%. And now your lights are on.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Today's session here, and in particular this debate can often remind someone of the wrong world, so I won't say crazy house. So it happened that the highest concentrations occurred in this mandate, so the biggest tycoons happened, and now this government wonders: Why did this happen? How could this have happened? And worst of all, the privatisation of us from independence never went any further in this direction, it never happened that Slovenian property would have been sold out, by example to me next door in Prekmur Hungary to foreigners, a competing company would have closed down and, of course, one bunch, a small number of people would have taken large sums of money, and everyone else or many others would have stayed on the road. This was not the case, we all know that this was not the case and that is why Slovenia could also build a success story. The Minister calls for solutions to be proposed below. And to refresh your memory, 28. 6. In 2006, the Liberal Democracy proposed to article 23 of the Amendment Act, which prevented exactly what happened later, exactly what happened was that the owners of the company bought in such a way that the company bought itself into their account, the managers. And Minister Vizjak, I quote, said at that time: "We have considered, from the first reading to today, a very thorough professional consideration of the initiative of Liberal Democracy or, finally, their text, which they have proposed, and Parliament has rejected right to the content of the managers' buyouts." So, the amendments that we wanted to prevent managers from setting up the shares that they were buying when borrowing loans and thus taking over businesses without money, without their own stake, without their own risk, that was not acceptable at the time. On 20 December 2007, the same minister, Mag. Andrej Vizjak, came to Parliament at the 20th urgent meeting of the Committee on the Economy and said this: The main objective of this law was to correct that first law, again, but the correction, or this one article, is this one provision, a purely simple objective, to prevent something that has obviously happened and happened, although it is completely illogical, so that by the flag of something, it is meant to rent a loan or finance something that the acquirer wants to acquire, that is, shares of the target company, to apply the flag of those shares that the owner does not yet have. So a relatively absurd situation, but apparently it was happening in practice. At that time, I warned him that we regret that our amendment was not adopted in 2006, when we pointed out that these things could happen and that this would happen. I also said that you didn't believe us at the time and you'd be less surprised today and you wouldn't have to sit here at that session. And we see that it is a shame that the Minister did not take into account the opposition's initiatives, the Liberal Democracy, at that time. For if then, it would not have been possible for you to legalize by amending legislation, allowing the legal, legal and correct acquisition of companies to one set, one small minority of people, now that they have escaped, when you no longer control them, now that we are fighting together against the concentration, against the tycoons. But the tycoons took place in this mandate and the opposition warned, but of course we could not prevent it because you had the majority. And we've heard in the beginning also stories about the control councils, about the limitations of membership in the control councils, but these are fragments, in this way you've prevented the taking over of the fragments, while one of those laws has allowed the taking over of the whole bread. And this is how we allowed excessive inflation. Look, it's very simple. If you put a liter of wine on the table, someone comes, and then a half-litre drains and comes along with a working man, who, by the way, is no longer a marshmallow because of a similar transaction, the rest remains a sprayer. That's inflation. If some of them have half a liter of pure wine, then others don't have that much left. And because all wealth unjustifiably accumulates among some, dear Mr. Minister, the others have so much less. People aren't blind. Nor are they stupid and what was previously reported to be the destruction of the media by Janez Janša and the Government. No, they're not being torn down by the media, Janez Janso and the government are breaking their whole mandate alone, and this meeting is just a big "i" thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u189	Mrs Pirkovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! Unfortunately, Mrs Majde Shirca is not in the Chamber right now, because I would like to give a brief explanation for her implementation here. It is indeed a matter of procedure when, together with two related companies at the Ministry of Culture in 2007, Pivovarna Laško requested permission to transfer ownership to Talis. At that time, the Ministry of Culture, as it did in the Media Act, obtained all the necessary documentation, from the Court of Justice in a letter to the Court of Justice of the Securities Market Agency and the Office of Competition Protection. All this documentation, of course, spoke of the fact that such a transfer was not disputed and therefore a positive decision was also issued. Only subsequently did it prove that it was related persons, that it was a concentration of ownership that went beyond what was enshrined in the Media Act. It is said that one owner must not own a certain number of copies of media, public media that are being sold on the market and when we have found this, the result was, when the data came, new data on ownership to the public, of course, that we have to re-check these matters. And I assure you that in the future, the ministry will also check everywhere where doubts will be expressed that the data on which individual licences have been issued are not correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Vizjak, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Allow me part of the response to the debate. It is not true, honourable Members, that there have been some concentrations or, even as Member Slavinac has said, the highest concentrations in this government's mandate. It's not true, during the time of this government's mandate, they began to reveal themselves, they came in the day, through parking lots, through exposed, some mailboxes and the like, and that's right. And it is also right that competent institutes find irregularities if they exist and that they get as quickly as possible a judicial epilogue, this has not been done in the past. Why wasn't it? Because it was part of the system, Sir Slavinec. This was part of the system when you and your client led governments, not to talk about systems in the past. It is only with the mandate of this government that several important reorganisations have taken place, the strengthening of operations, the capacity of the organs and the results are here. And please don't tell me that when we open the carpet, that's the thing that's been under it since we opened it. Unfortunately, if there was more will in the past, there would be fewer such anomalies. And once again, the most important proof that this is how people and the political origin of those who are in the hotspots of these investigations are. That's one thing. Secondly, in 2006, you proposed to amend a certain section of the Law on takeovers concerning manager's purchases. The financial assistant, as well as the setting up of shares of the target acquisition company, shall not be allowed and shall not be prohibited only for NBOs or managers' purchases, but also for all other acquisitions. And this was one of the great anomalies of your proposal and the respected Slavinian, tell me specifically which, the takeover happened, but it would not have happened if I had notified your amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Dr. Slavinac, do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u194	Of course I have a replica. I guess the minister didn't get me right. I say again, with the mandate of this government, you have adopted the takeovers Act, which allowed these acquisitions, which we talked about, which allowed the manager to buy the company without any input and now, because this is the takeover Act, and then after a year and a half you came to correct this same law, the same things that we warned about because obviously those you wanted to enable them to take these takeovers have gone away from your exercises, otherwise you wouldn't have reacted, you wouldn't have corrected that law that legalized those acquisitions we were talking about. By the way, I don't have time, or I could have read them to you, but then a lot of LDS amendments were put in, look at how many I have. It's not just a reference to Article 23, it's a reference to more of them. But, as I say, I'll leave time to my colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u195	Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! If history could be rectified, on different grounds it would also be possible to privatise the social property of the factory and denationalisation, which has further contributed to our society. The process, which began after 1990 and all the anomalies or abuses that have occurred, must be left to the institutions of the rule of law and must respect consistently the principle of the division of power into the legislative, executive and judicial branches of authority. Today, however, the Government has very great temptations by subjugating both the legislative and judicial branches of government. Now there is something else about what these extraordinary Taiwanese meetings are all about, which the President of the National Assembly is calling on the proposal of a group of coalition members with his first-signed colleague, Jozet Tank. For pre-election purposes only. Let us see, on 3 June, when the first such meeting was held last November, when the proposer, the Government and the SDS Group took as much as 310 minutes from the 650 minutes of the debate. At the time, we had only 70 minutes at our disposal. Today is a similar situation. 145 minutes of SDS and, say, 50 minutes at our disposal of Members and Members of the Social Democrats, there is already this equality, which is partly subordinated to the Rules of Procedure, and partly because the Government and the proposer have taken the time at their disposal. And the conclusions that are proposed. Decision adopted 3. 6. ordered the government to report, and we have today's session. The decision, which is also proposed today, also instructs the Government to convene the next "against Tykun" meeting in about a month and a half with a group of MEPs and Members, before the elections. Nothing but meetings that are subordinated to one goal - to achieve the best possible outcome in the national elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Mr. Tanko has the word, do you want? On behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this extraordinary meeting was convened mainly because you signed the two marriage proposals of Lipa for an extraordinary session, these are all your signatures from SD, the first signed by Žgajner Tavš and then the entire SD Group of Members. It seems that Mr Pece has also taken over your Group of Members. The second point, as regards the announcement of time, is the time announced by the Rules of Procedure, but so much belongs to our Group of Members, as much as it belongs to us as to the Applicant, as much as you have allocated time to this point, you could have had all the time available for this meeting, that was the agreement. And two more things. Every time we reach your empire, you have a whole bunch of accusations in the opposite direction. For example, when we were removing stickers, which was the legal systemic place of citizens, look at the magnetograms of your discussions. When we discussed weapons investigative committee, or 6x6, you first ordered in the System Technology for 30 million Euros of equipment, waves, then you agreed to purchase one sixth and thirty of those, that is to say that the buyer paid 3% of the purchase order from the value of the order and you added a letter of intent for 300 million Euros, all without public contracts, public tenders. [[..]] In short, in these operations you have systematically ensured the transfer of money from the state budget to the "proprietary" company together with orders worth and so on. This was your work technology, and these are not the only cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u199	Mr. Ivan Grill, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. Managers' acquisitions have certainly been the most damaged or damaged, still, if they occur, taxpayers and, ultimately, employees in those companies, as profits spill over into the repayment of interest and also debts. And it is right for these people to learn how such anomalies can occur, because many times these people raise questions about how it was and how it is possible that this is happening in Slovenia. The answer is not simple, but it can actually be explained that all these events have taken place in a very thoughtful, systematic manner, and this by changing legislation in the past 14 years, by weakening institutions such as the judiciary or the prosecution and the police. This was not an accident, this was very planned and it is likely that many of the Members who participated in the amendment of this legislation over the past 5 or 10 years have unknowably supported such an amendment to the legislation that has allowed such lumbarries to take place. It is surprising, however, that we can now, on the part of the opposition, listen to such opposition opposition, that these matters are being debated, that we can explain to the public how these anomalies have occurred and, ultimately, also the opposition's opposition to all these attempts to amend the legislation or to actually change the legislation and the good and effective work of these institutions. Whatever the Government does in this area - this opposition opposes. Whatever these institutions are doing now in the exploration of these anomalies - the opposition opposes and a whole host of some institutions, from the authorities who oppose it. I'm going to refer to my colleague Bebler's statement that she's not here right now, and she said, "Every pig is not a crime yet." Of course not, because it was possible to amend legislation in the past, that such pigs were no longer defined in the Penal Code as a crime. When we amended the Penal Code a month or two ago, and even in this code, we have identified the area of economic crime, we have received again a number of covered and also vetoes, which we then, thank God, and with sufficient support from this House, we can also re-adopt. And it is this Penal Code that will allow all these institutions - both the police and the prosecution - to be able to make these cases easier to deal with and, of course, also to condemn in the following studies. It is right to discuss these issues and, last but not least, to take action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. You have the bad luck that you wanted with this scenario, which at first sight looked like a deliberate and cunning, when you want to keep this tycoon crane alive for the purposes of the campaign, but the bad news is that it happened to you, as it was already said today, that most of these tacoon acquisitions, if you want, occurred during your term when you are responsible for running this country. Now, unfortunately, I am disappointed because the discussion is not even about the government's response report or very little, very little about conclusions. It is true, however, that bad conclusions do not allow full-blooded reactions, so of course there is doubt as to whether it is a sincere desire to step on a tycoon, or whether it is some kind of revenge, because someone was disappointed because someone refused to cooperate or could croakly say that they happened to someone instead of one potential tycoon in Mercator, at least three real tycoons. That's the interpretation. But I would ask what I have announced publicly and also in the opening presentation that the representatives of the government, those who have powers and are here, answer those basic questions that arise. How much state property has been sold in this mandate or to these three exposed or all of them, to all 26 and others? How much were state banks involved in lending these managers' purchases? This cannot, in a global way, be the 970 million euro option, which they admit, business banks, is equal to the X sum given by state banks or the large plus Y total, not by individual. How much did the small Slovenian banks take? And with or part three, how much did foreign banks give? I think this number is going to answer a lot of questions. From the report of the Bank of Slovenia, not this response, but the reports of May, which were dealt with on 1 July by the Committee on Finance and for which there was, interestingly, no desire for discussion. There were two discussers, one from the position and one from the opposition. It can be seen that one of the reasons for the need to recapitalise both state banks is also in favour of these loans. And answer clearly and loudly with arguments. Is this true, but please not only by saying "Not true", state the argument that this is not true. And since time is limited, there is much more to be said, much more could be asked because the report is inappropriate. I would expect a more qualitative report, except for a piece or four pieces of paper that allow formal business to request a meeting and a classification point, and otherwise a number of other questions arise. However, although we have recently been used to underestimating some ministers and because I have never had any personal problems with the minister present, but Mr Minister: Do not consider us so naive that you claim that Brussels has said that there is nothing wrong with the sale of Mercator. There's no Squeak here to defend it and discuss it, but we all know that Brussels has answered something else. That the discount given to Mercator buyers does not matter whether it was EUR 100 million or EUR 200 million, after all, it is likely that they were used to purchase, that they have no state aid status. For honesty, for consistency, but not for contradicting answers. And, of course, Mr. Tanko. Don't try to hang the guilt on all of us in the opposition to support the tycoons and things like that. If we have a critical attitude towards bad conclusions, to bad reports and even worse conclusions that are prepared in this regard. I do not know that you are embarrassed to write such a decision, which says that it repeats the one from June 3rd, but you are not prepared to give concrete and supported answers with data and arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u203	Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u204	Mr President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, now for a month and a half, a little bit more, we're talking a lot about the tycoons, probably even the Internet search increased at that time, but finally it was information that the Slovenians were looking for 115 thousand times that word. Apparently, at least one part of this circus you're performing in this magical creature has succeeded. Of course, the word itself means someone, for example, who, by means of politics, has come to a great deal of money. It does not mean, however, that all those who have come to a great deal of money since 1990 or since 1992, when we decided so definitively on capitalism. One of course with more luck, the other with less luck. It is true that back then, in the early 1990s, to return, TV Slovenia was broadcasting the Dynasty, where capitalists themselves were happy, satisfied, the only problems they had were their marriage partners, due to their age difference. There were no other problems, actually. There was no proletariat, no pensioners, no one who licked the cream of capitalism. And so the Slovenians happily decided to do so, and the first tycoons to arrive were bound in some way to empty legislation on gambling. You can remember the various governments of St. Peter, who brought some very, very much wealth and who are not ashamed of it today. Then the matter went forward not to explain everything, but what happened in the last two years. You showed us some photomontage there today. I can show you photos from two years ago when the so-called tycoons with you were "walking" cheerfully at the scene of Beer and Flowers. The whole team was there, Mr Janša and two tables were reserved for special citizens, for ordinary citizens none, but for unusual ones it was necessary to go further. That's what happened. Just one anecdotes for the end to end with these "sa quachigetti"s, "perk almonds", tycoons and other magical beings you bring. You didn't bring any here, no black, no white, no doggy as a Dalmatian, no one. Nothing's been said. In the old days, they liked to play cards, and one omise was there in the Rippers. One of the militiamen and three guys who picked him up until the last couple, he stopped the car. When it came to this, he went to the station, changed, came back, took all the money, and threatened them with more punishment. Jim was the same. That's what happened. When the game was no longer in his favor, he stood in the position of the victim, the judge, the judge, and the slave. I'd really like to see you meet some tycoon, and I'm really curious who that is. Not just insinuations, not just clues, not just stories, not just, you're saying it's plausible. Science dealt with aethyst and sasquatch, troll and sphirlith, and an orange pendrek called it "gianto pictous", but no one has seen it yet. And these pre-election fairy tales, of course, move people away from the real problems. Now all of a sudden, these so-called tycoons will be blamed for people going over the edge of poverty, and they will be blamed for the fact that pensioners have low pensions, that those who live on social transfers live badly, will all be blamed by these tycoons. But still, after all, you were one of the ones who suspected the tycoon, the other day you let go to cook your sausages there in the tunnel. At that reception, you were just the ones who spoke against the tycoons and the tycoons. However, be judgmental when you accuse someone, or I fully agree that such matters are immoral, condemning them is worthy of being prevented, but do not invent or search for culprits everywhere to blind people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u205	Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, Minister and other members of the government! So, even in this way it can be serious and for Slovenia I could say tragic things to be banalized. Yes, you do. Today, the word has been most often said that this is a pre-election session, and we have been listening to this in all the laws lately, but I think all the meetings are actually pre-election, at least the ones that will start after the elections will be pre-election at the same time, whatever coalition will already be. What I am most pleased about as New Slovenia's Member is that as a customer you cannot connect us to these Taiwanese matters. I didn't hear it today. I've heard the same thing from Dara Bebler, but she's not here now, and also from Mr Pečet, who pulled Paloma out of their arms, but I'm both taking him to dinner if you tell me what crime Paloma's administration is facing. We all know, we hear from time to time. Paloma to this day, but I haven't read any crime, it's all wrong there, it's obvious what's true, and our media doesn't write it. I'm betting here, I don't know how much he wants to have, but let him say one thing about Paloma that's been read about, I don't know what kind of person, Matthew Perger, as a crime. I can't hear you. I asked Mr. Pechet here. He said she sold the place where there could be a cleaning plant. So that's what it is now. One of Ernst Young's audit houses made a report that they're hiding like a snake's leg, and it's nowhere to be found. The Supervisory Board considers it, then hires some lawyers to review it, it's reported in the media, and so on and so forth, but I don't know what's criminal in all this. Except Paloma's bad business, just like Moore's bad business, and Elan's bad business doesn't count all the companies. But why is it doing bad business, because once in the past they rented some credit for some Palomo-Horgen in Switzerland that could start and they're paying it back and so on. And they pay too many employees there and so on. But that's the story. I also hope that it will not be just another session today, which you might say is a rocking mountain and giving birth to a mouse, but that there will be some result that something will move. Today we have listened here at the beginning to how we should give more for social, for family assistants, how we should give them for pensions and start coordinating them with net salaries, for which you all recognize that they have risen, you have read data, and the real tax reform has only had its effect. What do you say we get some money for that? Yeah, you're saying there's no such tycoons. Yes, Mr Schrot himself has said or is now identifying his assets, amounting to over a billion, what if this billion euros were used for these social needs for the pension fund and so on, and the assets of some others, which have become extraordinary, because we cannot imagine. Here you have sometimes calculated how many cliots, how many miles of cliots you could buy for this money, so people can even imagine how much money it's worth. And if we used that, and this thing with these tycoons didn't start now in this term, it goes back a long way, it started with the tycoons, I'd say, with the tycoons. I remember that in 1994, when I was a member of the Slovenian Christian Democrats, I received an invitation from the party to take over the Privatisation Commission, we knew this on the ground, I don't know if it was written to report or at least to announce all those things that you think were owned illegally, so far as the parties on the ground were asking about illegal suspected property, not only when we're talking today that they went to the bank and set up shares and then they got the money and bought the company. It has privatised in various ways and I will just say, I am sorry that there are no Zares Members here. I did not agree that the municipality sold the most elite building in the center of the SKB bank, then the SKB Bank restored it and sold it back to the first man of the municipality, sorry that there would be no mistake, his wife, he told me, the wife bought it, not him. And how can we now be Members, and many of the five I am sorry that Mr Trofenika is not here now, but we must now resolve these matters and therefore I understand all these discussions. [[....]] Many who sit here today are soaked in these processes and in these phenomena and have also had a certain benefit in all these transition times and today these are the loudest and shout: "Take the thief". And if we were to stop these things effectively in Slovenia at the time, then we wouldn't be able to get to the big ones. God do all good, as we say, for the dead, Drnovšku, but when he was the Prime Minister of the Government he did not do what he should to prevent the certificates from ending up in the hands of the Pydovian Barons, what they did and many of them from there created whole empires and today, Mr Gulič, you can compare them with that Carrington from that Dynasty, when we really watched and devoured with great eyes how someone could live on a great foot, and here we all beat some poverty and all that was created through the work of our people. And who kept it a secret? Yes, apparently in addition to the policy that it has denied and was also responsible, a court that has not played its role. The former authorities ordered a German judge, Dukoff, who came here and studied our judicial system, when he finally gave his report, to face one major criticism, that he did not understand our judicial system and rather go back to Germany and teach these matters there. And what he wrote does not need to be repeated because we have been able to read several times in the previous term how our judicial system works and how we feel about our judicial system. Then the police. It is very effective on the roads and is less efficient where it is not sufficiently qualified, these are complicated processes of transfer of ownership, modification of contracts and so on, parking lots, hidden owners and so on. The prosecution has also failed to perform its function, which should be better prepared, more on the contrary, here at the end of the day with some law on lawyers, at least to prevent this direct transition from the judiciary, the prosecution from immediately going to the lawyers and defending these people. And what happened? With all the means you have prevented this law, I don't think it will be confirmed tonight, Mrs Beblereva said, "When we're in power, we'll fix it immediately," says this signal to this, as soon as we get there, it'll be back to the way things were going. Is this, then, a matter in which the National Assembly, as such, should play its role? Of course, it's not if we're putting some silence in here and we're not doing what we should do here, and in the end, people are confused about it. How can people find themselves in all of this? And while we're talking a lot about Lakota, now people are coming to us at the inn and say, "Give me the shorts." So it's a commercial that's created, not something that would cause people to worry, but actually, in a way, it was used in a completely different way. Just as Mr Jankovic became mayor in Ljubljana, his wealth was not created with the very part of him, but many merchants received poor wages in Mercator and were, at the end of the day, in their minds, like their wealth, shed tears for the outgoing director, and the Ljubljanaers then said, poor Zoki, he should be placed in a position to protect his great assets and to preserve his value in the way that I see it as a messenger and in our way, I would say Styrian farm logic, and I understand. Thus, everyone has contributed a part in this wonderful story that we are in a situation like this today. And to conclude, the fight against these phenomena, of course, cannot end with a single session, nor will there be enough changes to a single law. In fact, it will take one eternal fight against this, no matter what coalition you want, whether you want black or red or purple - all those who take over any function will have to fight permanently, and above all they will have to do fairly and transparently. But if they don't do it themselves, then, of course, all the effort in the end is free. And I'm done with it. These conclusions are nothing special. I think it is good that we accept them and I will vote because, however someone will ask, when did you realize them, how did you realize them, why you have not yet done them, and in this of course supported our government to go forward in this effort? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u207	Mr. Mag. Lavrich, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Several questions were also addressed to the Ministry of Finance, so I will try to answer. Maybe if I start at the back - with regard to the recapitalisation of the bank - as you know, I was the President of the supervisory board of this bank for two years, so as far as the things I was doing there are concerned, the provisions of the Company Act, the data, I can't give, I have to protect the business secret, so I can't give you any concrete information. However, I can say that this last recapitalisation, at the time I was no longer the President of the Supervisory Board, but this was my colleague Igor Marinšek, which was adopted at the end of 2007, was part of the business plan and was, as I know, unanimously confirmed on the Supervisory Board, in short, with Belgian representatives who later decided for other reasons not to participate in the recapitalisation. The problem then with all of these credits, which we are already talking about today, is, as Banka Slovenije has found, all of these transactions are legal and are also adequately secured. Banka Slovenije herself said that she had not found any irregularities. With regard to recapitalisation, I said that if we look at how many state-owned banks have been involved in these transactions if we are looking at the whole transition period. I don't have that exact information myself. However, perhaps you could agree with Mr Trofenic, who said that he estimates this to 50% because the NLB and NKBM group somehow have a 50% stake in us and are the only ones, especially the NLB is the only big bank in our country to be able to carry out such transactions, along with some other partners that are then involved. Other banks are simply too small to carry out such transactions. In the meantime, I may have stepped out of the supervisory board, because of the incompatibilities with the political function, and in the meantime I heard comments about the wonderful meetings we shared and shared. I can say that in the first year I received €355 of the Supervisory Board meeting, five times a year, which amounted to €1,800 a year and no prize, which I do not think is a very excessive amount, given that as President of the Supervisory Board, I guarantee my own assets and was indemnity responsible for the operation of the largest bank in the country. Later, however, I really won a prize of 15,000 euros, but after I paid all the taxes, that amounted to some 8,000 euros. By not recommending this service to anyone, it is very stressful, not properly rewarded. The problem is, as a natural person, you guarantee your own property and you're responsible, regardless of what the state called you. It's just in the information that it's not going to spread here, like it's something incredibly beautiful and how we all just enjoy it there. I would also say that, at least in my time, as I said at a press conference, all the transactions were accepted in agreement with foreign owners with the KBC and with the EBRD, which somehow meant that they were sufficiently transparent and legally prepared and also adequately secured. For if we were not adequately insured, I assure you that our Belgian partners would absolutely disagree because this is about their money invested in this bank and they cannot agree in the short term that the bank would go into risky business. But it is also true that the bank is not a social institution and is designed to earn money, it can also make a lot of money, and the bank itself does not judge whether something is politically desirable or even ethical, if legislation makes something possible, then it is usually done and money is earned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u209	The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u210	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today was already heard through the entire afternoon debate, I would like to say that I don't even go to beer and flowers, at least on these various VIP tables or whatever they're called, I don't go to the opening of tunnels, not even those that get distracted the same day down, I don't go to the opening of airports, not even to "crowd" there, I don't go to the Puerto Rican hotels everywhere, where all these things are usually associated with the discussion that is on the program today. So in the beginning, I introduce myself as far as this is concerned. In the SLS, we claim many times that we are a party to capital, but a party to capital of the able, creative, decent, active, and other things could be listed, people, active mayors throughout Slovenia, who, with honest work, contribute to the strong development and support of our Slovenia in this regard, especially legal procedures at all levels. But in a way that brings property that is not greater for a light-year than the assets of all those that I have previously counted. That would somehow be my opinion around all these points, about the tycoons as we call them, because I don't know exactly what that means. However, as it is said, I support all these legal procedures and, as a result, I will personally support the proposed conclusions, which only support such procedures through the conclusions of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. According to the Great Dictionary, the word tycoon, if I ignore etimology, first means the address of the former Japanese shogun, secondly, a wealthy entrepreneur with great influence on politics and society and only figuratively transferred meaning gets a valuable judgment because it speaks of a rich man who has become without merit and work. Well, I would also like to use this word tycoon as a starting point for what we're experiencing and what I would like to call this style exercises. It was a cult book, and it seems to me that the coalition has a great deal of joy with style exercises, and we are going to have a few more sequels to the same story about tycoons without any concrete achievements. Why do I think that? The historical memory of the current coalition is so vague and when we talk about the adoption of legislation, they forget that in the previous mandate, with the help of the opposition, we have adopted a large number of laws in order to take over the European legal order and to enter the European Union as regards the co-responsibility of the coalition and the opposition. But since 2004, when the current coalition has won the elections, it has taken responsibility for the adoption of legislation, even though someone has a different view of things than I was told last time. However, according to the tables prepared by the President of the National Assembly, the power of the opposition is known and how successful it was with its proposals. But what I'm interested in is when will this coalition, if ever, return to its historical memory that it will change some of its values. I'm not going to go into the tanks and the genetics of the Mercator problem, but after two years, whoever's responsible for this story for selling Mercator, it seemed like Mercator's sale was a mistake. Well, what will happen to some other stories over time, we will see if it will ever happen, but I will now try to prove what we have received as a report from the Government on the activities that have been imposed by the conclusions. This rather fast read text gives you this information. 49 lines are dedicated to summarizing conclusions. 115 lines together with the subtitles are the government's responses to what it has done with regard to individual conclusions. But if a person wants to read this text, he sees that the first decision that lays down a comprehensive report, complete information, remains without any precise explanation. And as much as I have time left, I will only spend to express my attitude towards the current conclusions that are proposed. They are such that I do not know what man would do with them and I am not ashamed to say that I will vote against them, because what is only found in the first decision continues in the second, with some general judgment that we are now supporting the Government in what it has not done so far, and should continue to work. Yeah, until when? And urgent changes [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Here you go, Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you. We're already witnessing another big-time meeting today. What they could say is that Members are fighting, the Minister is supporting them and the tycoons are peacefully possessing them further, according to all the rules and laws that have been in force so far. Today, I would expect, after the last meeting, that the Minister or the Government will come before us with a bunch of laws that are preparing solutions to all these problems, so that, of course, this abnormal wealth, the concentration of capital and everything else that will never happen again. Since I'm coming from Gorenjska, I'm going to limit myself to just two problems that have happened recently, I could say with the consent or failure of the government. Scraemeco. At that time, when it came to selling this factory to Slovenia, in quotations, the capitalist was, of course, the Government and both the parastatal funds strongly opposed. Now that the company has bought an Egyptian who started building a similar factory in Egypt right next month, everything is fine. What will be the consequences and final result of history, of course. Even more fresh and interesting case involving representatives, as we have heard before, of the most honest and religious Slovenian parties. At this point, I must say that I am very glad that I am still and remain a member of the LDS, who was apparently abandoned by all the tycoons and fled. And let's see the story of how it went in the Cranian IBI, in Youth it's the title: Takunisation with State Support. With the help of the para-state funds, someone bought out a company worth around EUR 20 million on the market. Of course, it is also a story of 16 apartments for workers, two apartments in Barbaryga and shares in the Triglav Insurance Company worth a million and a half euros. This happened, and the acceleration was not achieved until Kad and the Court sold their shares, but not their majority shares. Of which the clients were eminent gentlemen who are still in these functions today, I will not speak. But you can read it all on your own in the media. But the most interesting thing is this story. The Ministry and the Government have advocated this afternoon that the previous legislation was not appropriate to prepare a new, better one. But when they called on the Ministry of the Economy and asked how the Ministry would protect 160 workers who had lost everything, with small redundancies, no wages, some without housing, and the Ministry replied to them: "We are confident that there are sufficient legal grounds to protect any violation of workers' rights, so we doubt that they will not be used. However, we cannot influence and comment on decisions made by property managers and owners of individual rights." Clearly, then, today’s legislation is still shining. At this point, you have not proposed another, but you are causing a lot of pre-choice rage and confusion, so that it will not be revealed who is the real culprit and who is the victim of tycoonization. The culprits are no doubt from all governments, and from the creation of a independent Slovenia to this day, most certainly from the last, because in the time of this government the largest properties of the largest factories have occurred and, of course, the wealth of some individuals has become abnormal in recent years. But the government, apart from the abundance of words, the references to anti-Taqun and other meetings, has not been able to do much more. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u216	Thank you very much. In fact, I am not surprised that the Member has not been to this meeting and is now commenting that the Government has stated that the legislation is in fact flawed and that everything needs to be done further. On the contrary. More than once, and I have always said here which system-wide legislation does the Government, on the one hand, seek to create a friendly business environment for the development of economic operators, small, micro, medium-sized and large economic operators. Therefore, to take advantage of the potentials of these people, the potential of people and to move this into economic growth, new jobs and short-term development. And we were successful at that. That's what the numbers prove. At the same time, the Government and the legislator must ensure that systemic legislation prevents speculation, abuse and, of course, other deviations that can be achieved through abuse of the standard. I can tell you a whole bunch of legislation here. I would, however, start with the Law on Economic Companies, which systematically intervened in greater transparency, greater protection of small shareholders, more information, information, and full compliance with the European acquis. More. We have maintained certain standards in the Company Act, which also prevent financial assistance. And these legal standards, which prevent financial assistance, have also been an appropriate basis for the relevant agencies, in particular I am referring to the Securities Market Agency, in order to prevent the granting of consent, the taking-over of consent, including the financial assistance of the target company of the acquirers. I am convinced that the article in the Law on Economic Companies, which prohibits and says that all financial assistance is null and void, too. And who issues the takeover permit? The Securities Market Agency, which, of course, examines the entire acquisition prospectus with a number of other circumstances and then decides. And, of course, even through the operation or better said failure of the Securities Market Agency in the past, through this particular institution, the instrument that, of course, for small businesses, for those irrelevant ones, we speak from the point of view of ruling companies, for that is the legal order of strict, for friends, and today we see which friends are swimming on the day, no one I know from the kind of ruling coalition, but from the kind of former rulings, and for those, of course, these soldiers made sure that everything was all right in the end. I am convinced that economic crime and corruption of white collars were part of the system. Only with this amended legislation and with the operation of supervisory institutions have they started to swim on the day of the story and concrete cases and concrete actors who were up to the recent members of the SD, such as Mr Boško Šrot, who staged the spectacle - czech, public exit from the party, that the President did not sufficiently say he strongly opposed and, of course, the result was a spectacle of the resignation of this gentleman and obviously "comeback" to the last beer party in terms of, I don't know, exhibiting an account or anything else. Well, one more time. Corruption and economic crime were part of the system. For 60 years, and probably for the next 12 years, I was very happy to read literature, such as a collection of documents, not to say, a collection of documents published by the Justice Minister and talked about corruption and crime in the time of former party comrades. It's very interesting how many pounds of flour, pork, and the like were rummaging, but we don't talk about houses, we don't talk about a wardrobe, and we could even list it. This was part of the system, and now that the government has gone through these phenomena through the amended legislation, through the functioning of the institutions you have been hurt, of course, before the elections there has been a lack of any financier where and normally, it hurts, it no longer affects, there is no telephone number where it calls and is said to leave it, and this is our friend, and this must be left alone. And, Your Honor, I believe that perhaps the establishment of the rule of law is causing some problems. And I am convinced that such a meeting, such as today's session, is actually intended to reach one consensus that it is necessary to conclude with the operation of such social ties, clientism and that it is finally necessary to give a clear signal, including from this Parliament, to both the institutions of control and the third independent branches of government, that before the law we are all the same, that the subject of supervision and the subject of a judicial epilogue is subject to the same procedure by everyone, so that it has not spared certain Februarys. And if that's what you call it here, then don't be alarmed, even if any, by the recent financier of your political options, who locks and puts it in the locker. And I think it is right that we have allowed the supervisory institutions to work professionally and independently, not to allow, once finally, and that this part, in my view, of the rule of law, has begun to work. I will also be happy if the judicial epilogues are built quickly, professionally, properly, but quickly through the judicial procedure. It makes no sense to have strict legal and legislative standards in law if they are not implemented in nature and in appropriate procedures. And part of the ineffective judicial system is the part that this coalition inherited and that began to repair and that started to work. And when he began to bear the first fruits and first results, we hear screams about the pre-election intentions of these convened meetings, not about whether what is happening in this country is right and whether it is necessary to encourage those who represent the interests of the rule of law. Economic legislation, which on the one hand enables the development of companies that debirocratises and reduces the administrative involvement of state institutions in business on the one hand, while at the same time an effective standard that prevents abuses on the other, was the main objective of the Ministry of Economy in this mandate. And I believe that through the Law on Economic Companies, the Law on takeovers, the Law on Economic Chambers, the Law on Commercial Law and all other laws, we have actually achieved what was the key objective of the reform of economic legislation. We have written very strict standards into the takeover legislation because we wanted the acquisitions to be carried out transparently and because we wanted them to be implemented in the interests of small shareholders. [[I'll wait, President.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u217	I'd like to ask nicely, really.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u218	Thus, through the Company Act, for example, as I mentioned in the introduction, I am afraid that I was too often heard, we have taken an extremely important step in preventing the concentration of capital and the concentration of decision-making in the hands of individuals. Indeed, in previous mandates it has been lawful to sit in as many as ten supervisory councils, one person. Thus, it is not surprising that the director of one company was at the same time in the supervisory boards of four or five or ten other companies and were the directors of these companies in the supervisory boards of his firm. It was one brotherhood that happened to everyone. And usually there were influential members of political parties. One of these was the president of the LDS from the Brežica Municipal Committee, which I happen to know. This is a typical example of how they concentrated the staff and power in the hands of some individuals. And these few individuals led the matter. With the amendment of the Company Act, we have limited this. No one else is allowed to sit in tens, and not in fives. We have limited membership in the Supervisory Boards to a maximum of three and experienced, including in this House, much disagreement that these are just seats for the electorate, for the called and so on. It is very important that we have extended the takeover legislation to an area, a very broad area, not only of public companies, but also of non-disclosure companies. We have therefore committed to a number of entities that have secretly controlled, actually controlled through parking lots, actually took over the company, but without a public acquisition procedure, because you know that in any public acquisition procedure there must be a fair price for the share, that is the takeover price offered to everyone, including a small shareholder who has no possibility of managing or controlling the company. And the fair price is, as stated in the law, the price at which the acquirer or the related person bought shares of this target company in the last year and the next half of the year. This means that the fair price is that there is no possibility of speculation with a takeover price. And I'm hearing here today, and you're wondering how there are more takeovers in this period, after the adoption of this takeover legislation. Of course, because it is now, the takeover is a transparent process, but before that, those acquisitions were in the swamp, in the fog where the individual was in control, even in the way I had previously said through membership in the ten supervisory councils. But a small shareholder could observe it from bits and pieces and wonder, all the things that happened in the company. And the increase in the number of takeover procedures is due to the fact that the takeover legislation has expanded to a greater extent and has also increased. And we now mention in the report also the type of activity of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition, which identifies the concentration in the companies of Pivovarna Laško, Istrabenz, as well as in the crowd of other companies where there is a suspicion of so-called parking lots. Merkur, a company of shares, has already launched a procedure last year and will be introduced into several companies, where suspicion is suspected, into the future. So, the office started working here effectively. The concentration assessment procedure is also carried out in the company Evening, the reintroduction of the procedure also in the company Delo, the shareholder company. In all cases where an attempt has been made to take over the target company by the administration in so-called management acquisitions and, of course, the target company has a dominant position, the UVK, according to the Competition Protection Office, has introduced a conformity assessment of concentration with competition rules. More. The Office for the Protection of Competition is also, in an organisational sense, strengthened, staff-renovated and, of course, proposes a certain amendment to the law, where officials of the Office of Higher Supervisory Competence and also higher powers to be able, of course, to carry out their work in a smooth and efficient manner. The cooperation of the Office for the Protection of Competition with the Prosecutor's Office and with the other law enforcement authorities, especially with the police, and here I think it is a very good proposal, which I personally support, is the proposal to set up a so-called financial police, so that those cases, which have apparently been misused by independent supervisory institutions, have experienced some quick and professional, both administrative and judicial epilogue. For such a message that abuses and anomalies are sanctioned is essential for the future functioning of Slovenia and for the functioning of those many, many economic operators, who are struggling, but successfully, in the Slovenian and European spaces, are in this difficult competition. The Slovenian economy is good, efficient and therefore these deviations, including by professional institutions, must be brought to justice as soon as possible on the prescribed path. I therefore welcome the intention of this meeting that this message is to everyone in this country, not only are we arguing here, ladies and gentlemen, but that through these conclusions this is a very clear signal. And what is even more important in my opinion is that the signal must also be such that the legislator, Parliament has taken a number of measures aimed at preventing the concentration of capital and corruption and that the supervisory institutions must read them in their sense, not looking for details that someone is forgiven. I am convinced that the essential legal norm and the meaning of the legal norm, the intensification of the legal norm that is written down, and that all the details in any legislation in the world cannot be covered. And as I now observe some of the events, especially the two supervisory institutions, I feel that there is a planned directive here to prevent the work of the competition protection office from going forward. Dearly beloved, the fact that the Office is not allowed to review the communication it needs for its work and here, with respect, it is a great fictitious idea to say that at the office they will check our commercial practices or the purchasing habits of all citizens. It is a matter of identifying communication between relevant trade references and also management and all those empowered to do so by economic operators when exchanging information between them in this oligopolistic trade structure. That's the point. And that's sealed now, you can't look at that. Our taxpayers can pay for more expensive meat and milk, and I don't know what else works in Slovenia. If we do not communicate these very, very clear messages to all institutions, then unfortunately, what has been said is that we had an unnecessary argument here. And I started by saying that the government here isn't the one saying that something has to be done, I'm sure we did what was necessary, they started showing the orchards and these results obviously the opposition is in pain right now. And let us do the work to the end and prevent some who are under your wing from covering up the filth they have done in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u219	Mr. Joseph Horvath, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to everyone from this town again. You surprised me a little, because I thought you'd call the Mag. Anton Ropa, but he was very rational, as he already knew yesterday that he was running out of time, so he was not at today's meeting, but he could tell us much about what was going on at a time when Mr Rop was, say, the President of the Board of Directors of the Court and in 1996-7 June 2000 a member of the Government, when a total of around 500 shares were sold in individual companies and in the 2000-2004 term, when he was a member of the government and two years Prime Minister, when an additional 270 shares were sold, total of 770 shares in individual companies and in what way. Yes, most of these sales were made in a direct manner, which means one buyer without competitive offers and so on, without real testing of the price. But I would like to respond to the discussions of some of my colleagues and opposition colleagues who were wondering if I knew who they were asking, what the government had done, because it was not [[...]] Mr. Vice President, can you calm down the atmosphere, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u221	I'll try. Here you go, Mr. Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, and also thank you all for being cultural. But I really want to talk about what this government has done. And I'm going to operate on a specific case, with just one, I'm going to be on one decimal point, and I'm also sure no one is going to object to me or replicate. I'll talk about the appreciation of the Triglav Insurance Company. I've done this a number of times, but "repetitio mother studiorum est" - "recurrence is the mother of learning", and it's good that we learn something in this house. Let me remind you that the first valuation of the insurance company Triglav or the first evaluation report of the insurance company Triglav was made in 2003. It's from the report; yes, Mrs Breda, I don't know if that's what Mr Rob was doing, but I would agree with you. The report showed that the value of the Triglav Insurance Company on 1.1.2001 was estimated at 60.6 billion tolars at the time. Due to doubts as to the correctness of the assessment of the value of the capital of the Insurance Company Triglav, in 2005 the Minister of Finance and consequently the Court requested the verification of the initial valuation. So this is someone in this government who had, I'll say, a good nose at home, and he doubted the value of our national insurance company, which we all built together, including that last suburban farmer. The then administration of the Triglav Insurance Company has a new, interesting, new higher appreciation, but it kept it secret for incomprehensible reasons and has not been informed by either the Soda or the Ministry of Finance. After verifying the valuation of the Triglav Insurance Company, received by the Court in March 2006, it was said two years ago that the estimated value of the Triglav Insurance Company was EUR 1.1.2001 121.8 billion, pardon, tolars, EUR 121.8 billion. The difference is obvious. And the difference between the first estimated value of the insurance undertaking and its actual value resulting from the verification of the original valuation is about 62 billion former tolars or today's 258 million euros. But how many common mortals are we, who are not tycoons, who don't have bank accounts out there, is a number we don't actually imagine. It may be easier to imagine - 258 million is the approximate sum of the financial effects of the laws adopted this year to mitigate the negative effects of inflation. Approximately no one's gonna drag me by my tongue. This bad act of course did not happen, thank God, because someone in this government had a good nose. But the intentions were bad. And bad intentions must be sanctioned and punished. And that's why it's good that we're sitting here today talking about the bad intentions that someone in this country had with the assets that we've all created, as we say, including my fears. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying that. If I continue here, where my colleague ended up. Perhaps only Lenič at the top of Triglav allowed this project, in the way it was set up, not to be realized, but the remaining assets continued to be state-owned. What really bothers me in this discussion today is that the biggest takeover expert in the National Assembly, Dr. Lahovnik, has not even spoken of these procedures that we are talking about. The other thing that is also very eclectic in this discussion today is that it felt extremely nervous in opposition benches. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats have also reacted extremely violently, greatly to the debate. But, Mrs. Pečan, if you have heart problems, in Isola you have one of the best heart surgeons and you can turn there, you don't have to bother your colleagues when they discuss. If this privatisation project or concentration project was to be realized, it was indeed a prerequisite that some were dedicated members of the 10 supervisory councils. Otherwise, this project could not be implemented in such a way that these concentrations occurred. All the horizontals, all the verticals, all of these things, through individual decisions in the control councils, had to be realized in this way. And that was practically a prerequisite. You simply cannot do this with a crowd of several thousand people, but you can only follow with a very narrow selection of cores all those goals that have also been made. The decision of the information officer, who has obviously taken the right to block the procedures for determining the concentrations or procedures carried out by the UVC - the Office for the Protection of Competition - is also very noticeable, in a way that will delay these matters through the national elections. Then perhaps we are waiting for a better situation, different positions of power in the National Assembly, and then all these measures that we have taken in this mandate, if you are given a mandate to form a government, may change. And the objective of all these measures, the blockades on the judicial system, the blockade of the information authority that prevents the review of the seized documentation to the Office of Competition Protection, are only those: to come in some way through the elections, and then what will be. I would also like to say that from all this debate you've had in the opposition benches, when you said you wouldn't back the conclusions, that you wouldn't have anything to do with them. I would just like to warn you that, because you will not support these conclusions, you do not want to get to know the Government's message about the activities it has carried out in this part of the June session until now. It is said that you do not accept the Government's report on the measures it has taken at this time. Another time. In some ways, you do not want to give support to the Competition Authority, the Securities Market Agency, the investigating authorities, the State Prosecutor's Office and the police to continue to identify suspected illegal practices at concentrations. This is from one opposition group, which is not so small, in fact a very significant signal, a very noticeable signal that you simply do not want to support activities to prevent all these procedures and measures in this particular sense. Nor do you support the government in drafting legislation to further strengthen the fight against organised crime [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] These are your decisions that you have communicated to the Slovenian public. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u225	Mr. Secretary, may I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u226	Member of the LDS. I still have time because I've planned it enough, you obviously don't. And let me say something else. And I won't repeat myself because I don't think that's necessary. The effect is the things that need to be said, and one or two things I would like to say, which I have merely touched without escape. One of the extremely important features, which has been systematically recorded and incorporated into this system of violent fight against capital concentration and corruption in the mandates of previous governments, has been the inviolability of directors of supervisory institutions. A typical example is the law governing the Securities Market Agency, which sets out the reasons for the possible recall of the Director of this Agency before the expiry of the mandate. Inefficacy, inefficiencies, or anything else, that's nowhere to be found. For this reason, the competent minister or the Government or anyone or the National Council could replace the Director of the Securities Market Agency, which is a key agency which has key supervisory powers in the securities market in takeover legislation and in the concentration of capital, had several mandates, which it celebrated in general over the last ten years after it was possible to write a decision for three, four years. The result of this agency's operation was total inactivity, non-response and ridiculous, I would say, non-interference with obvious errors or deviations, even published daily by the media. When we wanted to, when we saw this and we were aware of inefficiency and we wanted to sort it out in some way, we wanted to change the law on the one hand, because of the blocking of the procedure, so because of the various constitutional complaints it did not give and even the opposition was always yelling again and again in this House about the human tsunami. Of course, it hurt to finally get the supervisory institutes to work. However, this has also happened, and the supervisory institutions have begun to function. And that's good. And let us, please, allow them to work effectively and in accordance with the law forward. I would mention, however, that you have been in several debates here, in particular members of the opposition, also sailing into the field of privatisation. Unlike previous activities in this direction, the government has also set itself some strategic guidelines. It has formed expert groups that have proposed strategic guidelines for the privatisation of banks, insurance companies and also larger economic systems such as energy and telecommunications. On this basis, individual privatisation programmes were created and we pursued two key objectives through all these programmes. The first objective is to develop society in terms of greater competitiveness, new markets, new jobs. And the second goal is to maximize the purchase. Where we have not achieved these objectives, we have simply not resold the matter. But where we have protected them, and in the best possible faith, we have also protected the promised ones, it is said what was promised. As for indirect state investment in the parastatal funds, the guidelines adopted here in 2006 that have also highlighted different investment groups have also been identified in terms of strategic orientation. And among other things, the country's strategic investments, where an accelerated withdrawal is not recommended, are also Krka, Gorenje, two so-called "blue chip" of the Slovenian economy or two very important companies, which are extremely successful in tight conditions, not European, global competition. And then what do I read as an omen from the Social Democrats? That the state should withdraw more slowly once, on the second occasion move faster, and that they should remain only in infrastructure companies, is said in those companies that are important for infrastructure. If I understand correctly, with the rule of the Social Democrats in the future we can look forward to a tender, a tender for stakes in Krk, for shares in Gorenje. If this is the message you're giving, then I don't know how they're going to take it. And I just want to tell you that this is a reckless sale of state property. There is nothing left to count, and I believe that this meeting of the National Assembly and your programme are read by these strategic buyers, buyers who also live on shares of these companies abroad. And I can imagine what would happen, and I will not mention the state, but it is in the east, which is known for household appliances, for example, to buy the stake of Krka or the share of Gorenje and what will happen to this factory. So, folks, think about it, please, nice writing things like this into your political programs without thinking about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled to the supplementary proposal for conclusions. The amendments were tabled by the SDS, NSI and SLS members to the second decision. Anybody want to talk? Take into account the red numbers that are already on the screen regarding time. I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment and the proposal for conclusions in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the conclusion of the 6th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a DECISION ON THE DECLARATION OF DECISIONS PREVIDED AT THE CONSULTATIVE REFERENCE ON AREAS AND NAMES IN SLOVENIA AND THE STATUS OF THE LOVLIAN Local CITIZENS, WHO WAS 22. JUNE 2008. In accordance with the decision of the National Assembly, a consultative referendum was held on 22 June 2008 on the areas and names of the provinces in Slovenia and the status of the Municipality of Ljubljana. The report on the outcome of the vote and the outcome of the consultation referendum was prepared by the State Election Commission and published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 72, of 17 July 2008. By letter dated 23.7.2008, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia informed the National Assembly that it had received no complaint within the meaning of Article 53a, first paragraph, of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. You have received a letter from the Supreme Court. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a working body for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to Mr France Jazbec for presentation of the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Your Honor! At its 21st emergency meeting on 28.7.2008, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development considered the working material of the proposal for a decision on the declaration of decisions taken at the consultation referendum on the areas and names of the provinces in Slovenia and the status of the Ljubljana Municipality on 22 June 2008. The meetings were attended by Dr. Ivan Žagar, Minister without a Charter, responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, Marko Drofenik, Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, Mr. Mederdorfer, Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, Municipality of Ljubljana, and representative of the Legal and Legal Service of Mag. Oh, my God. The members of the committee received a draft decision for the meeting as working material, the State Election Commission report on the outcome of the consultation referendum on the areas and names of the provinces in Slovenia and the status of the Municipality of Ljubljana of 8.7.2008, which was published in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly, No. 103, of 24.7.2008, and in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 72/2008, of 17.7., and letter from the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of 24.7. concerning the confirmation of the legality of the State Election Commission report, which was published in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly, No. 103, 24.7.2008. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service explained in the introduction that the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative provides that the National Assembly shall, within eight days of the legality of the report of the National Election Commission referred to in Article 53a of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, declare the decision taken at the referendum. On the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court in December 2006, the National Assembly found that the body which had called for a referendum should also announce the referendum decision by adopting the amendment of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. He pointed out that this was a procedural matter, since any voter could lodge a complaint against the State Election Commission report within three days of its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the appeal shall be decided by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of a decision of the Supreme Court, the report may also be amended. There are no other legal remedies in this case. As indicated in the report of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, no appeal was lodged against the State Election Commission’s report within the legal time limit. This has made the State Election Commission's report legal and can be made public by the National Assembly on the content of this report. In the debate, amendments were proposed to the title of Ambassador Breda Pecan and Ambassador Bogdan Barovic, who were not accepted by the Committee. The Committee further voted on the proposal for a decision on the declaration of decisions taken at the consultation referendum on the areas and names of the provinces in Slovenia and on the status of the Municipality of Ljubljana on 22 June 2008 and adopted it in the proposed text by a majority of votes to 7, 1 against. On the basis of the above, the Committee, by a majority of votes, 7 and no votes against, adopted the following decision: The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a decision on the declaration of decisions taken at the Consultative Referendum on Areas and Names of the Regions in Slovenia and the status of the Municipality of Ljubljana, which was adopted on 22 June 2008, EPA 2028 /IV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on the proposal for a decision. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u230	Thank you very much again, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Under the provisions of the Referendum and People's Initiative Act, any voter may lodge a complaint against the State Election Commission's report on the outcome of the referendum within three days of publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supreme Court of Slovenia shall decide on the appeal within 30 days. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia therefore informs us that, until 23.7.2008 until 12 noon, it received no complaint within the meaning of Article 53a, first paragraph, of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. The Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative provides in Article 53b, which we have adopted in this mandate, for the National Assembly to declare a decision taken at the referendum and published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia within eight days of the legality of the State Election Commission report. In New Slovenia we respect the legislation, so we agree that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia declares that in the consultation referendum on the areas and names of the provinces in Slovenia and the status of the Municipality of Ljubljana, which was adopted on 22 June 2008, decisions were taken as found in the report of the State Election Commission. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik on behalf of the SLS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u232	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we took note of the report of the National Election Commission on the outcome of the consultation referendum on the areas and names of the provinces and the status of the Municipality of Ljubljana. The report shows that, in most cases, the National Election Commission has found that the majority of voters who voted voted voted in favour of establishing the provinces. We are pleased with this outcome, since we have stressed from the outset that the establishment of the landscapes is essential for the development of the country. We also accept that the will of voters on the names of the provinces has been established in individual areas. It is clear that it is never possible to satisfy all interests and bring all opinions into line, but it will now be easier to prepare solutions that are closer to the will of the voters. In central Slovenia, the will was expressed against, as the population there disagreed with the proposed area and name. The government will be able to propose appropriate solutions. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we will support the proposed decision, because we believe that it provides the basis for us to continue with the regionalisation project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Trophynik on behalf of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u234	Thank you for your word. This is the first time that we have seen an act on the publication of the results or the outcome of the exploratory referendum in the National Assembly, as a result of the last amendment of the law on referendum and human initiative. The title itself has been embarrassed by the fact that the applicants obviously want to read the law by talking about the decision, although it is clear to the Slovenian public that no decision has been taken and that it would be more appropriate, irrespective of any unconceived legal dictatorship, that it is an act to declare the outcome of the referendum; it is a correct and neutral decision, which was also proposed by the colleague of Pecanov or we are co-proposers of such an amendment on the committee, but most of this amendment and the good will for the proper title of this act has not been adopted. In view of the difficulties with the amended Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, which have already been demonstrated in the drafting of the issues itself, because the existing law does not allow for alternative issues or variants that could be obtained in the quality solutions of the research referendums, the Government, which proposed a last amendment a good year and a few months ago, would be expected to correct immediately the shortcomings or weaknesses of the existing law and, following an appropriate procedure, propose changes to the National Assembly in this mandate that are evident and to remedy the consequences or bad solutions that are necessary. Since this was not the case, there is a fear that, as I quote, the Secretary-General or the Secretary-General of the State Election Commission will be, not only 405 results of the referendums, but also 405 interpretations of the results. It is probably not only a problem with the awkward dictatorship of marriage, but it is conscious of such an address as to be misused for the daily political needs of referendums as well. This, of course, makes it impossible to oppose the act, but high expectations are abuses, as have been predicted in both professional and other circles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u236	Regional legislation is and is and will for some time continue to stir up spirits, both because of the content and because of the procedures and manipulations that are taking place in relation to it. However, it must be said that it is disturbing policies, particularly professional ones, Members, Members and mayors and mayors, and not excessively. The proof of this is the decision-making at a referendum that didn't attract a lot of people. Complete apathy, lack of interest, and thus a lack of confidence in what the Government has proposed to decide at the consultation referendum. In the DeSUS Group, we consider this proposal to be a misleading decision. As early as the morning of the mother’s working body, we warned that it was not possible to talk about making decisions. If this is about declaring the results, they would back me up, but if someone is trying to stress and shows to the public that things are decided, then we must strongly oppose it. No decisions have been made. Nor is it the purpose of the consultation referendum to decide. The purpose of the consultation referendum is to ask citizens, citizens, citizens and citizens what they themselves think when we are in the National Assembly, as this has happened. We regret some very clear message, except for the absence, except for the unwillingness of participation in this process, the electorate and the electorate have not given us. The Republican Election Commission wrote that it was a matter of declaring the results. The Supreme Court has stated that this is a matter of jurisdiction with regard to the declaration of results. You can read this in a piece we all got. And on the way from the Republican Electoral Commission to the National Assembly, these results were lost and someone turned them into decisions. It is likely with a view to impressing people that they have indeed made a decision and that those who do not support the government’s proposal are speaking out against what they have decided. But that's a false impression. And yet another false impression is made by those who advocate decision-making, which refers to the law on referendum and human initiative, which says that a decision must be announced within eight days. Yes, when decisions are made, there is no way. And nothing can be said as something that people have decided at the consultation referendum. Since this is a matter of repeated manipulation, in the DeSUS Group we do not intend to support such a decision or we will vote against it because this is a proposal for a decision that is sought by proponents of public awareness.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic, you have the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u238	Again and again, thank you for your word, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues! The report on the outcome of the consultation referendum shall cover 225 pages. I believe that the decision to be adopted today by the National Assembly is based on the outcome report. And it would be only right that the decision should read as follows: "The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a decision on the declaration of the results which have been adopted."and so on, accept." Then it would not be, at least for the Slovenian National Party or for me personally, any problems. The decision is a very clear, very precise concept. The aim of the consultation referendum is certainly not a decision. The result is the opinion of the people who gave it, as my colleague told us when we asked them. We've consulted, so it's called a consultation referendum. A man who does not know who has not been involved and who will read that the National Assembly has adopted a decision to adopt a decision to declare a decision will, of course, understand that the Slovenians have decided to do so. Which, of course, is not true at all. And what's not true, by all logic and even by the legal word, I'm sure as long as we're in the National Assembly, where we're adopting legislation, we can't, and we can't. I, too, or myself, because I am today the only representative of the Slovenian National Party, cannot take such a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u240	Respectable present. Is it in the interest of our citizens and citizens, or is such a fragmentation of the Republic of Slovenia in the interest of our country? According to my assessment or at the assessment of the Lipa Group, non-participation in the referendum also gives a clear answer. If almost 90% of citizens and citizens have decided to ignore this farce, it is a clear signal that they do not want every farce to be their own province. In my firm belief, not only the answer "yes" or "against", the combination of some 100 answers and the combination of some 100 different reports by finding out clearly that Slovenian policy in the past period has not been able to find those appropriate solutions for the so-called regionalisation of our country. In the next two, three minutes, I will highlight what the position was, not so many times, highlighted by the Lip Group of Ambassadors. The story of Slovenian municipalities must not be repeated, it must not be repeated that in the 10 years we came from several 10 Slovene municipalities to 210 Slovene municipalities. If we have not learned anything from this mistake, it means that in our country we will move from 13 provinces very soon under the new authority, whether local or national, to 26 provinces. Another thesis or fact from which we come under the Lipa Group is that the number of provinces should be recorded in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Why the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? In order not to make every civil initiative, not every ruling political option will change the number of landscapes. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, by its quorum majority to amend the constitutional procedure, allows for the sustainability of a small number of provinces. And the third fact that we come from within the Lip Group is that in Slovenia, if we are following a new value, if we are following the theory that the landscapes must be, but they must be only if they bring something new to their customers, that is, to the inhabitants and residents of this province, then this must be a small number of independent, financially independent provinces. The most appropriate number for our country, in our first belief, is the number three. Why number three? This is because we can then derive from EU funding. If Slovenia had three provinces, the funds could draw on both criteria. The first criterion, the so-called area of the provinces, and the second criterion, the number of inhabitants. However, if we agree to a government dictatorship within our country and divide our country into ten and some provinces, it means that we will not be able, not us, but none of these ten and some of the provinces will even apply to the European Union tenders. Is it in the interest of our country, citizens and citizens to establish the provinces as administrative - political organisations just to have the political staff of their feud served? Is that the purpose of regionalisation within our country? I say no. If we already have provinces, we must have provinces that will create something new. This is not through new taxes, but through the ability to draw funds from the European Union. The provinces that will carry out the new tasks, not the tasks they perform, will be administrative units, local communities or the Ministry's expositions, because in this case, if there is nothing new, then, gentlemen and ladies, the tasks will be exclusively the administrative and political body that will financially burden the users of this province, which means residents and residents. We will not support the Lipa Group of the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you! The provinces are a project that Slovenia needs for a long time. This finding does not reach a conclusion of this mandate, but it does reach that conclusion in 1995 or at the time of the preparation of the first Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The indicators and trends were at least poor in terms of the equivalency of the development of the country, and these unfavourable trends of the previous coalition could not be addressed by any measures, not by tax incentives, not by specific law for demographic areas, not by the help of municipalities, practically by any measure. The most appropriate response is the areas to which, from a national level, all those tasks which do not necessarily need to be performed by a country or a lower level would be carried out by cheaper, more efficient, more friendly, with a greater impact on the population. The former governments were also aware of this, but they did not have the will to undertake the project. Nothing happened except the declaration support for the establishment of the provinces and the clear definition of the Social Democrats in October 2003 to support 14 provinces. There have also been some individual attempts to invest in the laws establishing the provinces, but they were not based on any professional and systemic basis. In fact, we are all very surprised that provincial experts, such as Pahor or Kontič or others, have tabled legal proposals on individual landscapes without showing the whole picture of Slovenia's partitioning without prescribing powers, tasks, resources, personnel, elections and so on. They put forward proposals just like that, without a professional basis, just for pre-election purposes. This term of office is different. The government has provided everything necessary to establish the landscapes. Together with the opposition, we voted on constitutional changes and the government prepared all the provincial laws. These have often been aligned with the opposition and several opposition proposals have been taken into account in the text. The map is also linked to the decision of the Drnovška government and at the proposal of the current SD Bohinca minister. However, the underlying reason for refusal is not in the content of the proposals, but it is political. By supporting the province's legislation of this coalition, the left would have admitted that she was "stammering" without knowing where or where. Now that it's all on the table, you're saying we'd do everything better and differently. In January the map fell because it did not receive two thirds of the support, the government prepared a new proposal because it was not possible to stay halfway. The consultation referendum was the only way to move forward. Voters and voters have decided on proposal 12 plus one. This was not ideal, but it received strong support in as many as 10 provinces and Ljubljana, in some with more than 80%. Only southern Primorska and central Slovenia were not supported. In these two regions, the largest number of municipalities have also been identified against. Central Slovenia was expected and the proposal came after the referendum, is much closer to people, more real and largely eliminates the referendum concerns of those who voted against. The division of central Slovenia is a suitable response to the results of the referendum. It is true that participation in the consultation referendum was lower than expected and lower than before in the referendums, but, regardless of participation, proposals that received more than 50% of the votes were won. We can move numbers to the left or to the right, the fact is that most of those who this time had the right to participate in the referendum or in the decision-making process supported the provinces. The result of the referendum is binding on us because we do not underestimate the results, we will also support the proposal that procedures related to the provincial package of legislation continue [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and shall also end by a vote. [[...]] This is normal in all societies with democratic regulation. We are the only ones who would like to reintroduce a different concept when the opposition would have the right to veto all decisions. The Group of Members will support the proposal for a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Group of Social Democrats will not object to the adoption of this Decision, although, in fact, due to a very precise summary of the text, I think that Article 54 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative is a lie in this Decision. Why? Because there is a National Assembly at this referendum, we are not, but the majority in the National Assembly have asked voters and voters for an opinion on a particular issue. We are expected to consult Slovenian citizens and citizens on a matter of particular interest to the coalition MPs. And not all of them, but the MPs of the three parties in the coalition. The answer was expected. The answer was why you have us as a fool, why you have endured your responsibility, which you have also accepted through constitutional change, to us who have not asked us anything so far, and now you are asking us for advice on what to do or what to do. Therefore, the answer that this is a decision on the voter's decision at the referendum is not true. The answer of the electorate was, take care of your own work, do what you are put into the National Assembly and decide how many provinces, what provinces and how qualified these provinces will be. The answer was because of this or because it was because 11% of voters, others, 89% and something, they said you were behaving like this, do something once to show that you have a spine, knowledge and above all the ability to agree on something to bring the agreement to Slovenia step forward, not step back or cry in the same place." Besides, I could say there wasn't a referendum here, but there were 13. There were 13 of them. Now we will have fourteen provinces, because the idea of the Giant Central Slovenian province, without Ljubljana, has been sucked into dust because of the negative result. Interestingly, no matter how many voters were in the referendum, it is important that in 12 provinces the result was positive. That's important. Whether 189 thousand voters out of a million 670 thousand voted, this is not an important issue at all, nor is it important to discuss it at all. I agree that the referendum law does not contain a limit from which referendum outcomes can be regarded as, I will say, not only legitimate but also legal. Since it was not the legislator's wish, and above all not the proposer of amendments to the referendum law last year, to have a record once, as is the case for the majority of the Member States of the European Union, be careful that the border is placed from where further can be considered to be valid and when not the outcome of the referendum. In this way we can also talk about the current outcome of the referendum. I think it would be right for our joint amendment to be adopted by the committee to talk about the outcome of the referendum, not the decision, but the will of the coalition is, as usual, that everything we propose to Members and Members of the coalition is not valid. And finally this. It is true to talk about the fact that Members of the Social Democrats have invested or have introduced various laws on the establishment of the provinces. However, it was at a time when we did not allow you or when you did not allow the Social Democrats to adopt the law in the way it is now enforced by constitutional change. We've made it possible for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u246	Your Honor! When I was looking over the bench in the kind of government, I saw the embarrassment of a minister who would rather hide. He was not proud of what he had to do when he was preparing everything with regard to provincial legislation, but he was ashamed of the government, especially the SDS, and those who forced it. A number of proposals, initiatives, meetings with political parties, the Minister, have not been able to harmonise you, despite the fact that you have made a public statement as to how you have aligned yourself with political parties' views on provincial legislation. That's not true. The professional public has warned you, do not do stupid things, go in line and regulate this legislation so that it will be appropriate to this country, that it will be in the will of the citizens and for the benefit of all. You didn't listen to that. The immeasurable ease and arrogance also proved to be today. Today, it was said here that all the electoral beneficiaries used their opportunity. That's not true. Those who used it were the ones who voted. Those were not enough wrinkles. But look, you knew in advance that the outcome would be what it was. Today, you have already said that you have already prepared or have already had a different division than you did at the referendum, and that there is nothing, I have heard or read somewhere that the next day after the referendum was already a new map. The consultation referendum, you knew that this result, however it may be, would not have to be taken into account and so you just wanted to introduce additional confusion into the Slovenian public, promise honey and milk, of the poor 10% of the electorate beneficiaries, if I add to those to whom you will or have already submitted to foreign ballots, attended this referendum. Of that, half said, "but yes, if you've already brought us to the polls, we'll plead and make this provincial legislation." But you have obtained the outcome of a vote with which you have nothing to do and you cannot translate it into marriage and you cannot correct it to the electorate, to the taxpayers, to the inhabitants of individual areas in Slovenia. You cannot properly translate these outcomes into marriage. You know that. So it was another expression of the arrogance of the ruling coalition, I would just say only SDS, not to everyone else, Nova Slovenije, I think it was even against, but the minister had to do it on behalf of the SLS, which is understandable. When it's a turn, it's a turn, and when it's finished, you know who's in charge if he doesn't, what grade he's in for. But look at the fraction, even now that you have received or have received all Members of the National Assembly report on the outcome of the vote in these elections, you want and will manipulate these results into a decision at the referendum. Unheard of! Where'd you get that nerve? Why don't you say we went to a consultative referendum. I don't bother with election results. I know they can't be properly translated into marriage. And what you will do in Primorska, what you will do in central Slovenia, from the point of view of the citizens' inquiry, will be something that will be contrary to their will or, I do not know how you will explain it then. I think one August of this will be enough media coverage, and we may be surprised again to see your locksmiths, what you will be able to sell to voters for their own good. But these voters say, 10% didn't go through the election, "don't do us that good," because 90% didn't go to the election, "there's too good," stop. Don't do anything stupid. We'll be sick of the good." That's the message, that's all. Therefore, please be at least that correct, but do not get involved with the finding or the announcement of referendum decisions. A simple address that the material holds, such as if the law is so or the Constitutional Court has said that we must do so, let us declare the results. I don't bother them, and LDS doesn't. They're what they are. They reflect your arrogance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u247	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the conclusion of the 6th item of the agenda or when it will be. This concludes this agenda item. The agenda item 5 is now on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Sector Wage System Act. Since the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has not yet prepared a report on the proposal for a law as a parent working body. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 73, I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed in one hour when the Committee is expected to prepare a report on the draft law. So I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly. We'll continue the session at 10.15 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u248	The board just finished their work. However, it takes some time to prepare a report to reproduce and divide the report on the bench, extending the period to 22.45.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u249	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please take over the city's soybeans. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the System of Payments in the Public Sector, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Rep, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u250	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members! The pay system is, we can say, in the final stage of implementation and in the past weeks, we have also come to various interpretations or interpretations of certain provisions relating to the regulation of the transfer of the number of classes of advances from the old to the new pay system, which could, of course, have the effect of maintaining some wage imbalances in key carriers from the past, and also misinterpretations could lead to new wage imbalances. That is why, of course, we have decided to prepare a novel where we have tried to divide this matter clearly. In the first phase, we were sort of starting out from the point of view that a public servant could not be classified in a higher wage class than a salary job or title increased by the highest number of advances achieved by progressing under the rules that were in force before entering into the new pay system or before the new law was implemented. Last week, we also carried out coordination with a group of representative unions that were not inclined and opposed to this solution. In a specific case, it was progress that would have stopped somewhere in five advanced classes or with doctors in seven advanced classes. That is why in the past days, we have tried to find some compromise solution with our partners, which you have here on the tables today. This solution is in the direction that, in particular cases, a public servant cannot be classified in a higher salary class than the salary distribution of a job or title achieved by progressing under the new applicable law, it is said, according to the new pay system, that we are talking about ten advanced classes. The key element in this solution is certainly this, as has already been said, that we are guaranteeing the fundamental principles of the law. First of all, there is the principle of transparency, transparency of the pay system, which certainly did not affect these fundamental principles. Of course, in any case, we prevent new imbalances, in particular in the direction of imbalances that could occur with newly employed staff entering the public sector and in the wrong interpretation they would certainly be placed in a position that they would not be able to reach a wage class by the end of their career, which some individuals could achieve by mistranslation under the current regime. In any event, the solutions, as has already been said, provide a transparent, transparent system, an orderly and uniform system, and, crucially, do not in any case extend the deadlines for the implementation of the new pay system alone. In recent days, there have been quite a few speculations or misinformation that the Government wants to avoid some dialogue and has thus broken off this partnership with the Trade Union Party. As you can see, this is not the case, and in the past days much work has been done and we have found this compromise solution. There is no way that we can say that this is a mistake, for the two sides have interpreted or interpreted certain provisions differently. It is right that we resolve this issue before the introduction of the pay system, as if we are later regulating some things in return with some judicial channels. And what is crucial about this story; it is definitely not enough to explain or suggest that the government has calculated in a particular case and, of course, has tried to deal with this mechanism in some way. This is not a financial issue, absolutely not, because these changes relate to a very small number of public servants and also to public servants who are in the seventh, eighth and ninth tariff classes, but rather to the fact that the new pay system should certainly not establish a new wage imbalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u251	Thank you. Mrs. Žginer Tavš, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! Allow me, on behalf of the Lip Group, to make a procedural proposal or to express my disagreement with the consideration of this bill, today and in particular by such a procedure. I would also really appeal to the distinguished representative of the Ministry. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u253	Mrs. Žgeiner Tavš, please, a procedural proposal. First warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u254	Mr President, I have three minutes to formulate a procedural proposal, and I will eventually design it. However, I must certainly explain why I will come up with such a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u255	You have only announced an explanation of your disagreement, which, of course, you can say ten times during the debate. Now you have a procedural proposal. What do you want us to vote on?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u256	I have three minutes, President, under the rules of procedure to formulate a procedural proposal. I'll put it on, let me, in the end. I would like to tell you why I came to such a conclusion. Today and now we have received a report from the parent working body, which speaks of an amendment that touches on Article 49 of the Law. Article 49 is not in the novelty of the law. There's only 49th article in the novel. What I'm trying to say is that what you're doing is by force, by emergency procedure, a pure political farce, a respected colleague and a colleague to break the rules of procedure. This law does not provide for business to be dealt with at today's extraordinary meeting. The mother's working body did not take a timely position before today's extraordinary meeting, so we suspended the meeting, which is a kind of precedent; or neither, since these precedents appear one after the other in this mandate. You called for a meeting of the College of the President of the National Assembly so that we could decide on the urgent procedure of the bill. A college meeting was convened on the phone during parliamentary holidays, hours before the sitting! The government has tabled a bill following an emergency procedure, despite the fact that the security of our country is not threatened! She has introduced a law that is not compatible with the social partners! And on the nose, the mother's working body decided after a one-and-a-half-hour break and drafted an amendment to the bill, thus not touching the content of the law that is before us today. The Lipa delegation will not participate in such work, government work and yours, Mr President, which you allow, so I predict obstruction.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u257	Thank you. It is said that the Lipa Group will obstruct at this point, as you have heard. We're moving on. The draft law was examined by the Committee. Do you still have a procedural proposal? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u258	Thank you. The procedural proposal, Mr President, is that the content of the amendment of the law that we are talking about, and especially because it has intervened in an article that is not in the novel, should be moved to the next extraordinary meeting, which we know will take place in one way or another. Otherwise it's true that everything is actually going to be broken. So, the proposal is: let's move this content forward, let these amendments be arranged, let this amendment be arranged now, if there is no authentic explanation to be put in place, and let the proposal come in order, even if by emergency procedure, for the next extraordinary meeting, which is scheduled to take place around 20 August. Please put this procedural proposal to the vote. After considering all your colleagues, look, the committee has reached out to an article that is not in the amendment of the law. That's actually a warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u259	First, I will give the opportunity to the chairman of the committee to explain the matter or to make a supplementary explanation of the report, then, Mr Barovic, but I will put your proposal to the vote. That is to say, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, as the home working body, has considered the draft law and I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mr Drag Koren, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. At this urgent meeting of the Committee this morning and also this evening, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the public sector wage system, following an urgent procedure. The Legislative and Legal Service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the technical and technical aspects and has drawn up a substantive comment on Articles 1 and 2 of the proposal. At the outset, the Secretary of State, Mr Roman Rep, stressed that the main purpose of the law is to define more precisely the transfer of the number of classes of advances to the new salary system, as defined in Article 49 of the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System. In translation, a public official cannot be classified as a higher one, nor can he go beyond what was possible under the said law, i.e. five advances, for public servants or seven advances in the doctoral classes. The debate stressed that the proposed amendment was interfering with the acquired rights of public servants who could not transfer all progress to the new pay system. The proposed amendments, however, remove the imbalance identified and represent equality for all, and in particular for those employees who re-enter the public administration system. In particular, the issue of the provision of financial resources was raised by opposition Members, or if these funds would increase and how much. It is also important to say that trade unions also participated in the committee meeting and that the amendments were co-ordinated. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the Committee has adopted the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups to Articles 1 and 2. He also drafted and also adopted the amendment to Article 2, because the name or address of the law was dropped by deleting Article 1. The amendments adopted were included in the amended law, which is an integral part of this report. However, I myself wanted to point out here a typographical error in the amended proposal for a law where there is one č missing, since this is the third paragraph of Article 49 č. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u261	Thank you. Before we move on to the presentation of the positions of the Group of Members, you have heard a procedural proposal, namely that the point - Mr Barovic, or I will say correctly, listen - to the point to be interrupted and to continue at one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u262	The procedural proposal, if you allow it, is that this point should be terminated and considered, although at the next extraordinary meeting scheduled for around 20 August, and will be coordinated and written in peace at that time. Look, I understand there's been a typographical error in this rush, but, you know, I'll only give you one comparison so you can understand me. Item: "Kill, [[Hexagon]] , not pardon, "but then" kill no, [[Hexagon]] I'm sorry." If it says Article 49, because it is forgotten, it is completely at odds with the proposal of the novel originally because the original novel speaks of Articles 49h and d. But this is only about Article 49 that we've received. Now, Mr Koren has said that there has been a typographical error, but you know, this press error is exactly the same thing, no offense, let's at least be right here, let's be honest with ourselves if we're dealing with legislation. I'm not stopping anything. I don't mean anyone any harm, but that's not the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u263	I would only mention that, we cannot say that the point of the extraordinary meeting will continue because we do not know if this meeting will even be held, we can only accept that it will continue at one of the next meetings. You heard the procedural proposal. I ask the leaders of the groups of Members whether they wish to take a position on behalf of the groups of Members and give it to them. No, no, no. Then we turn to a vote on this procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I find that the procedural proposal is not adopted. That is why we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u264	Dear President! Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! I admit that we were surprised at the Slovenian People's Party when we had to decide on the urgent procedure for the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System. However, when we found that there were urgent changes that would undoubtedly facilitate the transition and the normal transition to a new pay system, we supported the process. The purpose of the proposed current novel is to define more precisely the transfer of the number of promotion classes to the new pay system and to enable the transition to the new pay system within the estimated amount of resources needed to address the imbalances in basic salaries. Regarding the objectives and principles, the applicant argues that the proposed amendment does not derogate from the basic law. The applicant also argues that the amendment removes the possibility of different interpretations of how progress has been made in accordance with the rules applied to the entry into the new system is taken into account in the new pay system. In the end, we were particularly pleased that most of the social partners, i.e. the unions, with the novelty and the amendments proposed for Articles 1 and 2, agreed. For these reasons, the Slovenian People's Party's Group has no reason not to support the novels and amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u265	Thank you. Ms Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u266	It's a big joke. It is also said that the law has already been passed, so reported, apparently, on national television, even though, for example, the law does not even have business provisions. By the way, they should be very concerned about this law on national television, because it has such consequences that they do not have coverage, but they have good work from the past and a lot of reservations covering both the Pyramid licenses and the human resources and entertainment programmes, so that they will already find these 15 million euros, as they have found 16 million euros in income after the adoption of the RTV law. But it's been funny happening all along with this payroll law. The government has continued to predict minimal, tiny, tiny, small, some "lifting" changes in the law, and we hear that this is not such a small change; unions complain, see that 18 million euros have consequences and that there are no such minimal consequences. After all, the government itself says that when it does not deliver an authentic explanation, it does bring about the amendment of the law that there are difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the country - and we now have them at an extraordinary meeting, and the law is patched up by 2010 and brings 400 million euros in consequences. All right, we are very pleased that it brings about improvement and harmonisation of wages that have gone too far! But if you ask such a public institution today how will they calculate the consequences that this novel now half properly, half wrongly brings, with the consent of not all unions - most yes, but not all; SWIZ, for example, is not here. The RTV Slovenia union is not included, and there is no one else, but the problem is elsewhere. The problem is that Mr. Best Minister made a mistake, now the red one, he's not here, you're defending him, you're "pulling the red one" by, of course, supporting the confusion that was coordinated in one day. So "ad hoc" no one or today has been heard: with the law as it was yesterday, with those union comments advocated by the president of the Glossa union, that the fall of 6% or 18 million, today we hear about 0.6, and at the same time no one knows exactly which work has passed and why it is being carried. Mr Pukšič, it is very funny, it is very unfortunate, and if you are still the mayor, your municipality will have to cover certain consequences of this law. The problem was how many advances a person can take with him by a new method. I'm sure most people today don't know how much coordination happened during the day, how it was yesterday, and how it was the day before yesterday, when it had to be repaired. It's not a small number of employees, maybe, because no one has given an answer, which are those who have apparently made such excellent progress that they are now being thrown out of these classes, but they are given a certain limit, not more than 5 to 7 classes, but 10 classes. I understand that you don't understand me either, but I'm trying to say in short words that something has happened today: the government didn't have to and couldn't risk facing the unions today or now, because by 1 September it has to make new calculations for the new payroll system and in 2008, by the way, it doesn't cover more than one "trash" of four that will be valid until 2010. It's 160,000 civil servants. We don't know who they are now, either bonus or bonus, if that's what I can call it. I know that unions are not quite sure, they are not satisfied, but they have done something -- not all unions -- that something will happen by September 1st, because otherwise it would not only be a good impression, a good impression before the elections, but would be confirmed by the chaos that I claim is still present here. Vote it yourself - you will! We have problems with such vague provisions, which have given so few answers even on this weak day, which began at 8:30 p.m. with a late-internal policy committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u267	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u268	Now, just before midnight, it seems that the best position is short and that it is better to be angry to smile at the discomfort we have experienced on the government side. We will be in the DeSUS Group because, after a little after eight o'clock in the morning, after we started the meeting and ended it half an hour ago - the one on the working body - has managed with the union to agree on this novel. It's an amendment to the novel. We'll back her up for the next reason. The government has prepared a proposal for amendments to the law. She said that there were modest, small, minimal changes, that there were small changes, but that there were strong consequences for the country, almost irreparable, and that because there were such small changes, only accuracy in the dictatorship, only so that some who did not understand everything correctly could not interpret it, but that it was the only goal she had set and which she had written down; that is, that there must remain all the changes in legislation within the financial framework she had set. That's what she wrote in that paper. The union has made these modest changes, which the Government has made to achieve, even if the union opposes, at all costs, it has also done so for a while; hence, it has sought to enforce it, but has encountered rebellion, fierce opposition by trade unions. The trade unions did not agree that it was just cosmetics, they talked about interfering with the foundations, they said that even negotiations and signed agreements were at stake, and they announced some measures to protect what they were able to negotiate. It seems that these predictions, such as the threats of the union, were weighty enough for the government to give up, to start negotiating differently with the union, and to agree to some changes. Because it seems, at least so in the DeSUS Group, that the fundamental things that the union has pointed out have also been accepted by the government, and because this is therefore a compromise, although it is still a matter of more resources than the Government has anticipated, although it is still a matter of some interference with the rights already acquired; therefore, we will support this, because it is a compromise, for this agreement, and the DeSUS Group does not intend to undermine.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u269	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u270	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you very much. However, the position of the Slovenian National Party cannot be presented because we cannot have it either. But how can we design it if we have learned about important changes 20 minutes ago? Another time. I ask at least so much seriousness that we will receive a complementary proposal before the decision is taken as it must be. Article 49, paragraph 3, should read! At least let's be right enough to know what we're going to take. The essential amendments that we could read in the amendment, namely Article 1 of the original novel to delete Article 48(3) and Article 2 to amend Article 49(4), were suddenly the same as they were. They were such, the novelties of the law, the first, provided for the deletion of the third paragraph of Article 48 and the amendment of the third paragraph of Article 49, after the present, completed proposal from half an hour ago, and we are back to where we were, even before the novel! I think so! I don't know, now that we have some doctors and smart people in this National Assembly, I'd like to ask if someone can honestly say who understands it. I'd say raise your hand, who understands what it says here, and let him say it. Really, I'm sorry, I admit it publicly, I don't understand it, and I can't understand what's going on back here, I don't know. In the proposal for the novel, the original one, you spoke in the government about the amendment or amendment of the law, but in the next breath you were talking about eliminating the possibility of different interpretations and a unequivocal dictatorship. The elimination of the possibilities of different interpretations and the undeniable dictatorship, as far as I can recall, repair or rescue in eight years, with an authentic explanation. When it comes to the amendment of the law, there are important substantive changes. I do not object to them if the profession has assessed that they are important, but this national assembly, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, is at least so well deserved, at least so much recognition should be given to it that the matter is explained. I'm going to say honestly, I've spoken to three people who are preparing a translation that work day and night that they're looking for, all three aren't stupid, really, but none of these three different structures, not inside, not even a novel, but now that change, understood absolutely nothing. Mr. President, I know you may know what you're talking about, but today we're going to decide something we don't know about. I will not personally support myself, but once again I say, not because of hurting anyone, God forbid, I want to help everyone, and I want to do them all good. But I won't support it because I don't know what I support. Because I have no explanation, because it changes every half hour, and because the essence of the novel is the most questionable to me, it is a new market and changes substantially, and now it has preserved what was in the previous law. Thank you so much for doing this - I wanted to help, and I was also at college for this meeting of the National Assembly, and if I were to object then, it wouldn't even be at this meeting. I've been so adjusted. I think that I have earned, at least as a Member, that you would be right to me and prepare things to justify my suspension to college, which I am very sorry for.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u271	Thank you. Well, Mr Barovic, let me comfort you: in the material on the other hand, the letter 'c' has fallen out, you will get back on the table, with the fixed letter 'c', as stated in the report. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u272	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! So it's really good to be short, and I'll try to shorten it. First of all, I'd like to say that it's 160,000 wages per month, that it's 160,000 people. It certainly pays - I don't think it's a funny thing if it's 160,000 people who get paid every month. Pay is certainly the most sensitive part for every employee, so it is necessary to act very sensitively and responsibly and responsibly, especially in the case of the system, i.e. the pay system of the public sector, which has never existed in Slovenia: not in the previous country and not in Slovenia alone, which proves that this nut is very hard. In Slovenia as a single country, the system has prepared almost two mandates, and in this mandate, apparently things with a great deal of good will and readiness of all partners have finally led to the agreement and signature of collective agreements and the commitment to implement the new system in September 2008, which means salaries for the month of August. Since the date of application is steadily approaching, we could say that it is already a real number, but, of course, different versions of interpretation 49. h have appeared after the old Slovenian custom, apparently, articles that talk about the progress and transfer of the number of possible advances in the system. Since the system is in the implementation phase, all uncertainties and doubts must be addressed and also clearly and explicitly recorded. Since this is an area where collective agreements are also signed, including relevant annexes, any change must be aligned with the social partners and this has also happened today, and interpretation, in particular the implementation of Article 49th, should be uniform. It is important that the system survives in September and employees can also get paid back. In particular, the system is important for those who have been deprived of wages for years and it is right for some to get one third more. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support the amendment of the law and to implement it as envisaged and agreed between the social partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u273	Thank you. Ms Darja Lavtijar Bebler will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u274	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The bill was tabled by emergency procedure so that if the novelty was not adopted by emergency procedure, there could be difficult remedial consequences for the functioning of the State. Some representative trade unions considered the proposed novelties unacceptable to them because they would have intervened in the rights already acquired. Moreover, according to Article 14 of the Constitution, which speaks of equality before the law, it would be totally inappropriate for them to do so. This morning the government was convinced that the novel, as it had been inserted into the legislative procedure, was urgently needed. At the same time, it has already drafted amendments which it has coordinated with representative trade unions during the day and has finally found that Article 1 is not necessary at all, that in Article 2 of the proposed amendment is necessary, but that the novel is still urgently needed, in order to eliminate the possibility of different interpretations, although the legislative and legal services have already considered that the proposed amendment would be in danger of achieving different interpretations with an authentic interpretation of a vague norm. In any case, the representative unions consider the amendments acceptable to them, since there will be no new injustices and only a small number of public servants will be deprived of their rights. Such assessments are also eloquent in terms of the principle of the legality of the rule of law, the rights acquired and the equality before the law. Of course, they are humanly very understanding, but trade unions agree on something that means less bad and yet more acceptable than the original proposal. We will not oppose these amendments in the Group of Social Democrats, even though we have proposed not to put this novel on the agenda of today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. It is clear that, even with regard to this novel, the sixth in this mandate, the proposaler is still not convincing about the financial consequences of the law. One thing is clear: it is obvious that the calculations they started at the Ministry of Public Administration surprised them as well. It is not clear whether due to incorrect data, or due to insufficient data which did not allow for a proper review of the situation, or whether they were simply counted. The Secretary of State has just said that there is no financial issue at all. Really? This is what the unions have pointed out, for with the original novel, a large number of public officials would lose a significant part of the increased salary due to previous advances. Indeed, this law concerns 160,000 employees in the public sector and is therefore extremely important. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, we do not want to take responsibility for the adoption of a solution and we do not support it and we will not oppose it. However, we must not overlook the fact that the right way to adopt this novel is to demonstrate the indiscretion and hand-to-hand approach of this government in the adoption and amendment of laws. We do not only feel the discomfort, as a fellow Member of the Dessus Group has said before, we are really concerned, but we have the feeling that the Government is shaving a fool from the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u275	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u276	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, Mr President! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System, which we are considering today, has the letter J, the tenth letter of the alphabet without the letter C, which is obviously causing bulwarks today. I thought that this matter concerning the letter C would be resolved immediately to get this, but obviously it took quite a lot of words to realize that we were actually aware of the need to write things accurately. But this is not the main problem with this law; the main problem of this law is that it again flew into the National Assembly after some strong reflection. I must say, I am very surprised that, after all these changes, what is wrong and what new injustices he would cause have been found. Given the speed of rescue, given that the matter has been going on since yesterday, from this morning to this afternoon, and it is still so, half written, I am concerned that new injustices will actually be caused. In fact, this system, which is supposed to be in some way "just" in sayings, controlled by 160,000 people, is certainly a very sensitive creation and it is not allowed to change so impulsively; it is said when someone seems that something is wrong, but we will change a little bit here and a little bit there, and a little bit again somewhere else. This is also evident from the fact that we are now at the letter J: five in the previous term, five in the current term. It's supposed to be better every time, but - is it true? This strong concern that we have heard for 160,000 people has come back to the way that they have no wages so far, but only in this mandate are they frozen. That's it. And now that's the big worry. At the Liberal Democracy Club, it is precisely because of the way in which we receive it, because we do not believe now what we have heard today an hour ago, but how the unions have agreed to this - but if we read everything that has been written in the past days, we see that there is something else -, we highly doubt all these honestys that are so mentioned. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will not support this law, everyone will consider whether this text, which is now before us, is a viable solution, a sufficient solution or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u277	Thank you. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u278	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings to Members of Parliament, Members, representatives of the Government and also the unions that accompany us from the balcony! Let me say that the New Slovenia Group will support such a law that is now before us. Too much work, too much energy has been invested in this new wage public sector system, and I will say both the previous composition and this composition, so that now that the whole matter is near to completion, it will not be as right and fair. It is true that, even in New Slovenia, we were not surprised to learn that the proposed amendments to this law were opposed by trade unions, so I must say that we were so much more pleased when we learned on the committee this morning that, in these days, a compromise was reached with the trade unions that it was achieved that most of the representative trade unions of the public sector supported such solutions as we have now, it is said, following these amendments adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. For when we last adopted this law on the public sector wage system, it was particularly important that, after these long coordinations, agreement was truly reached with all trade unions. But now that this marriage has come to an end, when this marriage solution has begun to be implemented, it has been found that certain things will not be good, that a new wage imbalance may arise and that this would not actually be settled or resolved as our wish was. In New Slovenia we will only support these changes, as I said, mainly because they will not create new imbalances and eliminate existing imbalances. I am pleased or happy to be in New Slovenia that it has only been possible to reach the consensus of the representative unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u279	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Bevk, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u280	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I propose that when we are finished with paragraphs 5 and 6, we vote on the State Assembly vote five minutes after the end of the 6th agenda and not half an hour after the end of the 6th agenda to try to conclude this meeting of the National Assembly by midnight at least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u281	Mr Bevk, at the end of the sixth point, I'm going to open this question. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the 6th paragraph vote. We'll talk about it later. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the conclusion of the suspension of the function of the Vice-President of the National Assembly. On 23 July 2008, the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Sašo Peče, made a written statement to resign from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly. I ask, Mr. Pache, do you want to explain your resignation? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u282	Mr. President, thank you for saying so! Regardless of what is written, my resignation is not so much related to, according to my assessment of the misinterpretation of the Rules of Procedure by the President of the National Assembly, nor will I proceed to the Rules of Procedure. I would like to point out from this place at some point what I think would be very important; that everyone, all Member of Parliament, has the first one of us, or who is not in any working body, that he always has in his head, honourable Members, that if we do not value the function that we are performing, we cannot expect him to be appreciated by those in whose name we are performing this function. What have we allowed in the last four years or what has come out of this country in the last four years? The Court of Auditors is ignored, despite the fact that we have attributed all powers to the Court of Auditors, that their decisions are final and should be taken into account; but their decisions are ignored. The Anti-Corruption Commission is mocking. The Anti-Corruption Commission is mocking, even though it is always trying to stress how much corruption is in our country - but it is impossible for us, politicians, at every step, every day. The authority to access public information shall be disregarded. Her work is despised, her findings despised. On the part of us, politicians and those whom we have appointed in the National Assembly, that is, by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The judicial branch of power is incapacitated. In the same moss we are talking about judicial backlogs, but in the same moss, we, politicians, in the National Assembly, make it impossible for the judicial branch of power in its entire dimension, whether in the dimension of judges, notaries or any other part of the autonomous judicial branch of power, hand to heart, to prevent it. Economic operators are at risk. Politics about our behaviour, with our approval, endangers economic operators. I believe that you and I, as well as all the members of this group, have contacts and that you know what is going on in that economic part of our country's life. Today's current policy, the government policy, namely Janez Janša's policy, threatens economic operators. Durs, i.e. the tax authority, became solely the political body of the most powerful party. Their decisions, their selection of reviews, are linked to political affiliation. And so that I don't list the elements forward, I stop at that element that we're making up or that we should be making up, that's the National Assembly. I think that today we have all been more than a visual witness that it is true that the National Assembly has become the sole service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, despite the fact that in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, not only is it written, not only is it said, but we are commanded that we are an independent branch of power. I say we're not. I say that, in this mandate, the National Assembly has taken a big step back for itself. But of course this is not as important as it is that we have taken a step back in terms of maintaining parliamentary democracy. We have made it possible to take a step back in the field of human rights protection, we have taken a big step back, in fact, in the area of neglect of social rights. And since, as Vice-President of the National Assembly, I have formed a team to lead and direct the work of the National Assembly, I have also announced that I do not want to participate in all these steps back. I am sure that the current mandate, and this is the fault of all of us, because we have allowed it, because we did not hope to say once clearly that we are weak, that we are under the influence of such a Parliament, I cannot lead even at those moments that have been entrusted to me, this is the holding of meetings. Thank you so much for your cooperation, so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u283	Thank you. The National Assembly is based on Mr. School to finish. [[...]] Pursuant to Rule 202 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly notes that Mr Sašo Peče made a statement on 23 July 2008 on his resignation from the post of Vice-President of the National Assembly and that he is hereby terminated as Vice-President of the National Assembly. I thank Mr Saš Pečet for the work done by the Vice-President of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to Mr Bevik's procedural proposal. If you have a new procedural proposal, I'll give you my word right after. You heard you were supposed to break up for five minutes. Mr Bevk, once with the agreement of all Members and Members, we reduced the half break by 15 minutes and it was wrong. However, I ask you to think about your colleagues, will anyone else come, or who is counting on a half break, or who is opposed to us interrupting in five minutes? I notice no one's objecting to us breaking up in five minutes instead of half an hour. Good. Mr. Skolcz, there's also a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say that I accept Mr Vice-President's resignation and I regret that he was so late and I protest that he is speaking in the first person of the crowd. For we were not all here who spoke against the Ombudsman; we are not all here who spoke against the Kosovo Commission, we are not all here, who have always troubled the permanent term of judges, and so on. In this respect, I must say that it is unacceptable that Mr Vice-President, who also insulted our colleagues in this assembly, was not prepared to apologize for this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u285	Mr Školč, please, procedural proposal, there is no debate on the derogation. Please respect this principle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u286	That's right. You chose him and you let him get rid of him. And we don't get involved in this dirty game. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u287	I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which we'll resume at 23.50.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u288	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, please take your seats. We are moving on to the continuation of the sitting, by voting. Please check the voting device's functioning. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda - the first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Protection. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Social Protection Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 18 votes against 39. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I note that the proposed decision is not adopted. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda - the first consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 19 votes in favour, 38 votes in favour. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 3rd item of the agenda - discusses the draft conclusions to the Report on activities based on the conclusions adopted by the National Assembly at its 37th extraordinary meeting on 30.6.2008 on the issue of capital concentration in Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to the supplementary proposal for conclusions. We are moving to a second decision, to decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI and SLS to a second decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Check-in is on. Mr. Skull, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u289	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you, colleagues and colleagues, that there is only one literaryly important conclusion here that brings us back in spirit to the times after liberation, where workers and citizens welcomed the victory, fought the enemy and so on. From this point of view, I think the people who wrote it worked so hard and it would be unfair for them to just walk by. At the same time, these people do not believe that the courts, the police, the prosecution, and so on, respect the laws, but rely on telegrams of support. That is why I am counting on the fact that, after the National Assembly has adopted this decision, the basic SDS cells, associated parties, sympathizers will also be launched and so on, which will support this important decision. I have no doubt that you will pay special attention to him the following days, because there will be no regular meetings scheduled for us and there will be plenty of time to write these telegrams, which will welcome the National Assembly, the coalition and the future government, which will deal with all the irregularities, just as the Chinese have prevented their time from clapping the sparrows to land, and our people have, I will say, fought with bags and other aids against the Colorado bug. Mr Jerovšek, I hope you will take the lead in this campaign. [[...]] [[Laughing in the mess halls.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u290	Thank you. Although I would like to hear how the Group of Members is going to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u291	The Group will try to enter this achievement into the anthology of Slovenian literature.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u292	Thank you for fully explaining your voice. Does anyone want to explain their voice on their behalf? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 36 votes in favour, 8 votes in favour. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now moving on to a full decision on the proposal for decisions. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present and 39 votes against 2. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I find that the conclusions are fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 4th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision declaring the decisions adopted at the consultation referendum on the areas and names of the provinces in Slovenia and the status of the Municipality of Ljubljana, which was held on 22 June 2008. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision declaring the decisions taken at the consultation referendum on the areas and names of the provinces in Slovenia and on the status of the Ljubljana Municipality on 22 June 2008, which reads as follows: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia declares that at the consultation referendum on the areas and names of the provinces in Slovenia and the status of the Ljubljana Municipality on 22 June 2008, decisions were taken as found in the Report of the National Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the consultative referendum on the areas and named areas of Ljubljana and on the status of the Ljubljana Municipality, published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia on 17.7.2008. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. In your own name? Not at all. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Anyone in their own name? I can only see one hand. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u293	I am embarrassed for a simple reason because it has already been shown in the debate that we have a conclusion before us that we do not know how it will be interpreted. We are dealing with an advisory referendum, which is not binding on anyone, and this has also resulted in a clairvoyant participation in the referendum itself. As soon as it insisted that it was a decision, there is a danger that tomorrow this decision will be interpreted as a legislative referendum or further pressure, so there will be an extraordinary meeting when people say that we must adopt these laws to establish the landscapes and so on. This Decision may be misused in this text, including the text before us. That is why I cannot decide either for one option or for another, or not for the other, unless there is someone between us, because we do not have a job for local self-government, if you can or if someone hopes to say that this remains a solution to the consultative referendum, which is not binding on anyone. Then I am even willing to vote in favour of this decision. Of course, I can't force anyone, but if anyone dares to say that this does not reclassify the weight of the consultation referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u294	Thank you. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, for 37, for 8. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, for 44, against 5. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONCERN THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON ADVANCEMENT, Urgent Procedure. At its 39th extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly concluded its consideration of that bill before voting on the draft law in its entirety. The explanations of vote before the vote have been completed and we are moving on to a decision on the law. In this regard, I inform you that the obstruction to this point has been announced by the SD, LDS, Lipa and Zares. The rest of us can move on. So we're voting on the law. We're voting. There are 43 Members and Members present, so the first attempt to vote failed due to indiscretion. [[...]] We'll move on to another vote. Please be careful! Are we waiting for the Members who are obstructing to leave the hall? Thank you. We are therefore moving on to a second attempt to vote. We're voting. The second vote failed. That's why I'm adjourning the session, which we'll continue at 0:15.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-28-SDZ4-Izredna-40.ana.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Break's up. Please take your seats. We are therefore moving on to the third vote. We're voting. I note that the assembly is also not concluded in the third vote. That is why I am concluding this agenda item and thus the meeting of the National Assembly. Good night!
