ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u1	Dear Members and fellow Members! Good-bye! I begin the 40th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Drago Koren, Matej Lahovnik and Alojz Sok. I have invited the President of the Government, Janez Janša, to the first item, the representatives of the Government, to all items on the agenda of the representative of the State Council at the 30th item of the Minister of Economy, mag. Mr Andrej Visiak at the 38th point, and the representative of the Council of Justice at the 41st item of the agenda. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 40th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 6 June 2008. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions for withdrawal from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of proposals for an extension of the agenda. Following the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, I propose that the agenda be extended by considering two proposals for laws, namely the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, the urgency procedure, and the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, the urgency procedure. You received the proposal by letter dated 13 June 2008. I propose that we discuss both proposals for enlargement together, so I ask, the representative of the Government wants to speak as proposing proposals. [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate on enlargement proposals and moving on to decision-making. Members and Members are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. First of all, we are deciding on a proposal to extend the agenda by means of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act, an urgent procedure. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Mr. Bajc, or the voting device now let's try again. [[...]] It's working, okay. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by means of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments, an urgent procedure. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will treat both points as 27.A and 27.B on Friday, 27 June 2008, after the final vote. We are now moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference, and with the amendments adopted. We're voting. The vote on the agenda is fully under way. There are 62 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 40th meeting of the assembly has been set. I am adjourning the session, which will be resumed at 1:00 p.m. on the 1st item of the agenda. At 3 p.m., I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u2	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue the meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 22 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Below, only the Minister present will answer the unanswered question raised at the 39th meeting of the assembly. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall answer the questions within a maximum of five minutes, if the question is raised by more ministers, all shall have five minutes to answer them together. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask a new, additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government; this shall be decided by the State Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, the following ministers and ministers apologized for today: Minister of Education and Sport Dr Milan Zver, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mrs Mojca Kucler Dolinar, Minister of Finance Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Minister of Foreign Affairs Dr. Dimitrij Rupel, Minister of State without a Charter, responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Slovenian Development Strategy, Dr. Žiga Turk, Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs Mrs. Marjeta Cotman, Minister of Health Mrs. Zofija Mazej Kukovič, from 16:00 p.m. On the bench, you received an overview of the questions and initiatives that were not answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. Mr. Pece, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u3	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! As part of today's day, I have received a notice from the Ministry of Economy that it does not intend to answer the question. It seems right for me to point out, at the beginning of today's agenda item and to point out, in my opinion, the unacceptable conduct of Minister Visiak, who was the main actor a month ago or before the bad a few days ago in connection with the sale of state property. This time my question, Mr President, is about political pressure on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u4	Mr Pece, this is not a procedural proposal, this is already asking questions. Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u5	Thank you. I'll take care of it. My question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u6	Please also follow the second admonition.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u7	Mr President, I just want to explain, if you'll excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u8	What's your procedural proposal?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u9	The Minister of Economy answers the question, not that he is the creator of what he will answer and what he does not.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u10	Good. The minister will answer, thank you. You have therefore received parliamentary questions that have not yet been answered. We are now moving on to the questions that will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. The first question will be asked by Mr Miran Potč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Government. Due to the enforcement of the new tax legislation, gross and net wages have increased differently over the last year. Since pensions have been adjusted according to gross wage movements, all pensioners are deprived of 2% of their pensions. The amendment to the pension coordination system, which the Government is expected to provide to pensioners by amending the law in July 2005, is therefore evaluated. The association of pensioners' associations therefore rightly requires the coordination of pensions with net salaries. The first attempt to remedy this difference was the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We will decide on this proposal today, but we can expect that this proposal will not be adopted in the light of your Government's views. I would therefore like to ask: Will your Government, including with regard to the coordination of pensions with net salaries, continue to advocate for pensioners unfriendly positions, as you promised them when you align article 150 with the new mode of coordination? We are able to eliminate this difference in the drafting of a law that is supposed to regulate a one-time pension allowance, so that the possibility is anticipated and anticipated that all pensioners will be granted an increase of 2%, not only on a one-time basis, but as a basis that they would also coordinate further, but the government has also rejected this proposal in the home labour body. Your promises to pensioners that pensions will be aligned with salaries, with salaries that each individual receives and can use, and not those that have been changed with the tax system, therefore have not been fulfilled. There are still two options: whether the Government should adopt a proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, and thus allow for coordination with the net salaries, or whether, with the single provision of amendments to the Pensions Act, it would be possible to increase pensions not only for those with up to 500 euros in pension, but not for all, from 500 euros and 1 cents. We want to know: What is your personal view of these promises made to pensioners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u12	Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u13	Thank you so much for asking. This government has fulfilled the promises made by the coalition at the beginning of the mandate, as well as the majority of coalition parties before the elections. In doing so, the government corrected the injustice committed by the previous government and the previous coalition, when in December 2000, immediately after the elections, it prevented the amendment of the law from harmonising pensions with salaries. I have here a list of those who voted in favour of this injustice that has been committed to the pensioners, and I can read it. Thus, the injustice you committed in December 2000 was corrected in 2005, following these elections. At that time, the National Assembly adopted a law that actually raised the minimum pension base by almost 6%. In a law that has not changed in this respect, this definition is the same all the time, it also defines wages which are understood as the category with which pensions are aligned. Pursuant to Article 8 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the remuneration for the employment relationship from which contributions for compulsory insurance are charged shall be paid. This is more or less gross wages. Gross salary growth in 2007 was 5.9% and so was pension growth. So, the pensions were 100% aligned with the gross wages. Some differences have arisen in the net salary payments, not because anyone would change the pension law, but because a tax reform has been adopted, which relieves the net salary of certain contributions or taxes, and thus gives the workers a little bit more, without costing the employers any more. That is why the budget was scarce, and that is why this government had to save. Given the pressures caused by high food and oil prices in the last year, which have particularly affected some low-income segments of the population, including part of the pensioners, the Government has taken measures to make additional payments to those most affected. This law has already been adopted and I think that we have thus responded to the problems caused by high inflationary pressures, particularly the rise in food prices. When the government proposed this law, it made it very clear that it was a single measure that was sufficient in this situation, but if these pressures continued, it would only propose others. Responding to pressures that we all think are - and we hope - short-term, temporary - with some measures that would trigger inflation in some spiral movement due to inflation expectations, such behaviour would not only be counterproductive, but would be the most damaging for those who have the lowest income, because high inflation would be a two-percent increase, as you suggested, in record time. In this way, the medicine is inflation in the previous country and when we left it, it amounted to some 100% of the points so that it would not follow these advices.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Your findings on equal growth in net wages, gross wages and pensions are not correct. Wages grew 7.9% net salary, pensions 5.9 and the difference is 2%. In coordinating the amendments and supplementing article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, you have promised to grow pensions with salaries, but this will not happen this time. There are two reasons: once extremely high inflation and twice the consequences that the Government has brought about by amending tax legislation that was seemingly favourable to employers and employees. To employers because they have lower obligations and to employees because they have higher net wages. But you forget to tell anyone who benefited from these higher net wages. Not for those in the lowest income classes, but for those in the highest income classes, which we discussed thoroughly when talking about tax reform. Our proposal and your promise was simply that the problem that had arisen was not solved by a single dradnjan supplement, which would further deepen the differences between net salaries and net wages or between pensions and salaries. As of today, the wage-retirement ratio has been reduced by cca in the last few years. 10%. If this ratio was 67.68% to the average wage earlier, it is now only 61.62%. And this has to be stopped, or the pensioners will always be worse, no matter what your promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u16	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u17	So this government has stopped a backlog of pensions with a rise in wages. If pensions were to be aligned with the law you have voted with the full support of the Social Democrats Group in 2000, the lowest pension base today would be €779, which amounts to €818. On 20 December 2000, Bevk Samo, Črnugelj Silva, Horvat Franc, Aurelio Juri, Potrate Majda, Potrč Miran, Simšič Danica, Weber Janko and Kontič Bojan voted in favour of not aligning pensions with salaries. All members of the Social Democrats' Group who were present at the meeting voted that pensions were no longer in line with salaries.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u18	Thank you. You have Please, don't disturb the session! [[...]] Mr. Potch, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I think it is right, ladies and gentlemen, for us to hold a debate on the untruths that Mr Minister is talking about. Members and Members of the SD in June 2006, when amendments and additions to Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act were adopted, we voted in favour of the proposal. Talking about what happened 2, 5, 15, 20 years ago is unnecessary, but we are also prepared for this, Mr. Minister, your untruths Can you? [[...]] I will, because, Mr President and you all know, I will propose that the President's reply be discussed, as I have done at the outset, and I would ask the President very nicely if he is kind to all of you and to me to allow me to speak, but not to allow me to be disturbed by his position. Mr. President, do I have a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u20	You have time, Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The point of the debate to be held is the actual movements of wages and pensions. I think that in this debate it is necessary to prove that pensions received by pensioners are lagging behind net wages in the last year by about 2%, and that this will further exacerbate the relationship between average wages and average pensions, which also, Mr President of the Government, during your presidency of the Government, has been steadily deteriorating and reduced. There are official data of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, as well as statistics, and it is right to make this information public so that there is no opportunity to mislead the Slovenian public with your claims. I believe that you all have an interest, especially colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, in proving that your president is telling the truth and that he did not bring around, as it is said at home, pensioners with his claims. I therefore expect that when we vote on our proposal for this debate to take place, we will experience your full support and that we will be able to speak to the President of the Government at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u22	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Porč to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the context of tomorrow's vote on Tuesday, 17 June 2008. Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš will now ask the Prime Minister a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President of the Government, I believe you have a lot of work to do in the Presidency of the European Union, but it would be good to review key documents that also touch your policies. A fellow Member of Parliament spoke about this before me, Mr Potsch. On 28 May 2008, we Members received a report from the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, which clearly states that pensions fall compared to salaries. In 2007, they reached 61.5% of the average wage. It is even written down, but it is good that you are aware of this issue: "In order to prevent further faster reduction, the fall in the ratios between average pensions and salaries, the effects of the amended tax legislation should be mitigated or eliminated with an appropriate change in the basis for the coordination of pensions." This comes from the report, Mr President-in-Office of the Government. If I touch on other matters that fall within the scope of the wide area, not least the social ones. The fact is, I believe we both agree on this issue, you've ruled with the majority for four years. You have introduced structural changes for which only you are responsible, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Behind the very expensive flash you like to highlight, which we have also witnessed during the last visit of the American President in Slovenia, Slovenian reality is hidden, I am sorry. Retired, unemployed, single-parent families, disabled and, last but not least, workers with minimum wages. These are so - called marginal or risk groups that are exposed to poverty and now live in large numbers below the poverty line. I will just give you an example: 7 euros a day is available to the person receiving financial social assistance. This averages EUR 218. Approximately that much is available to a disabled person who cannot be actively involved in the labour market due to disability. Seven euros costs two slightly better sandwiches, the esteemed Prime Minister of the Government. That is, in my opinion, far from social security. And shame for a government that boasts of success and at the same time allows for such a level of social security. Since I believe that you are responsible for these structural changes - and that you are also aware of this - as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I simply ask you: What will you do specifically to reduce social differences and raise social security in our country? Last but not least, Mr President of the Government, if Slovenia is a state of prosperity, as you also point out in the package that we received home days ago, we cannot and must not allow such a policy that is already poor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u24	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u25	Thank you very much. In fact, this is a continuation of the debate on the previous issue. I see this opportunity because I had not had the opportunity to answer the third question of the previous questioner before. Data, even in this material, which you have shown here to the National Assembly, show very precisely that pensions in Slovenia, since we corrected the injustice of coordination in 2005, have been aligned 100% with gross wages. Net salary payments and gross wages are the category that has been used all the time for the criterion, even when you decided in the previous term that pensions will not be aligned with gross salaries. That's when you used the same category. Of course, it is essential here that we are burdened with tax reform and that due to some lower tax rates there has been an increase in the remuneration of employees, at least, so net payments are made, and that is good. And they did not only increase themselves to the rich, as Mr Potrč said, they increased to all employees. Before the Government sent them to the National Assembly, we agreed on tax rates in the framework of the Partnership for Development and took into account the proposals of the Social Democrats on these scales. So when it comes to income scales, they were also aligned with the Social Democrats, who were then involved in the Partnership for Development. You are criticising something you have actually proposed, because that middle income rate was your proposal, let's say your president's proposal. With regard to measures to improve the social situation in Slovenia, to reduce social disparities and to drastically reduce, as quickly as possible, the number of those living below the poverty line needs to continue development policy in Slovenia as it has been driven by the reform package and which has produced good results over the last three years. Slovenia currently has the lowest unemployment rate in the country's history. A few years ago we had over 100,000 unemployed, today this number is 61,000, so it's 40 thousand smaller. 60 000 is too much, but the surplus labour force is not the problem of the Slovenian economy at the moment, the problem is reversed. These 60,000 are structural unemployment problems of some categories, where specific targeted programmes have been used by the Ministry of Labour in particular over the past two years. In December 2004, we had 93 thousand 560 people in this country who needed different social allowances or social assistance to survive. In April 2008, this number is 54 000 72. Almost for - or for a good 40%, this figure is smaller, although the methodology has not changed and the data is completely verifiable. Thus, trends are positive, although for those I have said many times that are still within these categories, this problem is 100%. However, because trends are positive because they are results and because we know how we have achieved them, we also know where the path through which these numbers can be significantly reduced. Take any period of three years in the history of this country and compare them with the last three years, compare these trends and you will also get a real comparison. She's never been so nice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u26	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mrs. Zgyner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u27	Thank you very much. President of the Government, you are still hiding behind reality and I ask you not least: Why are you allowing two sides of one Slovenia? I asked you a very different question, even though you answered my colleague Potrč in reply, but allow me, President of the Government - poverty should be resolved permanently, not through the financial injections you offer just before the elections. This is a poor journey indicating a lack of a government strategy in the broad area of social security. No reference shall be made to the number of recipients of monetary social assistance. Ask yourself whether EUR 218 of monetary social assistance is sufficient for a person to live a decent life over a month. And when you mentioned your reforms, your social, pension, tax reforms. Dear Prime Minister, allow me to mention only one case - disabled persons affected by your tax or social reform system. These are persons led by PIZ under the number or code 09 to receive compensation from disability insurance as the only income for survival on the basis of past work. These people in November 2007, due to the law on the coordination of transfers, did not belong to the harmonisation of refunds, only to a lower annual allowance. They do not have the possibility of falling into a higher category despite low incomes in order to be able to run for higher annual income. And last but not least, these people, because of your decision, will not be entitled to the Draganj allowance, despite the fact that their pensions, the compensation for a disability pension, amount to EUR 195. I'm sorry, Minister or President, but that's the only thing that's effective with you. I've got a pension cut.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u28	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u29	So I hope this steak is real, because I'm still waiting on those two bills that I was supposed to get then, and I asked you to send them to me. You said you would, and you still haven't come. The mail is sometimes late, only this time the delay is very long. So I can just repeat what I said before. Surely we cannot be or will not be satisfied in Slovenia until we have one inhabitant living below the poverty threshold. Despite Slovenia's presence in the euro area today, it is said, in the most developed part of the European Union, the second since social cohesion. Only the Netherlands is a little socially dispersed from Slovenia, all other countries and some for 200 years have been constantly developing, without war, without revolutions, without what it has taken from people's wealth, are significantly more socially diversified. So with some starting position, especially with what we have today, we'd be hard to please. However, this is not the ultimate goal. The ultimate goal is to solve these things. In Slovenia, if we continue at this pace of development as we have now, and in a few years we will capture the European Union's average development, we will also come to some degree when we can actually significantly increase this systemic solidarity through some smart social policy. To talk now about some amounts of social assistance being too low, of course, it sounds nice, but you also need to know - before we talked about the comparison between salaries and pensions - the difference between the average wage and the average pension in Slovenia is one of the lowest in the world. The difference between minimum wage and minimum social assistance in Slovenia is also one of the lowest in the world. Slovenia, comparatively speaking, does not pay low social aid. If we can talk about something in this country as a problem, then we can talk about low wages. Salaries in Slovenia are actually, compared to the developed ones, too low. And this needs to be raised primarily, and when this rises, other transfers can also be higher.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u30	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I will also take advantage of the opportunity given to me by the Rules of Procedure and propose or request an extended debate on the response of the President of the Government. Prime Minister, two months ago, I specifically asked you what you would do, what was the social, pension plan. At that time you minimised the matter only on two posts or two persons who have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenian citizenship, which you still cynically deny today. I say it's a shame. You've received 170 items delivered. And allow me, President of the Government, to believe that such letters, which are rumbling at you, at least read or inform you. These are the people who say that your policy, whether in the area of pensions or in the wider social field, is a bad policy that leads people to misery! Although they have been working for 32 years, today they are disabled, receiving 200 euros in pensions! They have no right to a higher annual allowance! They do not have the right to a Draganj allowance, which you will be willing to pay just before the elections, so that you can get a rating in front of the pensioners. President of the government, the situation in our country is not pink and far from prosperity. But if we already have prosperity, then it would be very good to hear the answer to the question why we help in the period of welfare with social adjustments [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u32	Well, Mrs. Žgajner Tavš, this is a controversy, this is not a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u33	We're helping the pensioners. [[...]] Allow me, President of the National Assembly, to explain why it would be reasonable to have a broader debate on these matters. Because I say that the President of the Government still has no contact with reality or simply not only before the National Assembly, but before the general Slovenian public he is lying or not hoping to look the truth in the eye. If you'll allow me to proceed, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u34	Mrs Žgajner Tavš, second reminder, please don't argue, because you know that at this moment, the President of the Government cannot answer your allegations, your instigation or not say anything worse. Come in.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u35	Mr. President of the National Assembly, I believe you're not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u36	Mrs. Zginer, time's up. I think it was a mistake. On the proposal of Mrs Zgajner Tavš to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to her parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide in the context of tomorrow's vote on Tuesday, 17 June. Mr. Pece, do you have a procedural proposal? First of all, a procedural proposal, or I'll take your word if there's no procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u37	My procedural proposal is, Mr President, that you begin to realize that you are running an autonomous branch of power, not that you are at the office of Prime Minister Janez Janša, have so much pride.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u38	Mr. Pece, first thanks for shutting yourself down. [[...]] The following question will be asked by Mr Matej Lahovnik to the Prime Minister of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Government. As you know, at our last extraordinary meeting, we discussed the concentration of capital on so-called postal collector companies. On the proposal of the Zares Group, the National Assembly also voted on a decision imposing on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine the possibilities for the introduction of financial police. Therefore, I ask you: Will you personally advocate the introduction of a financial police in Slovenia that could better prosecute economic and other crime? I ask you this in particular because I personally believe it would be reasonable to merge the Department of Economic Crime with the Criminal Police, together with the inspection work of the tax administration and the customs department into a new body, into a so-called financial police, whose chairman would be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in agreement with the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances, where the majority of the opposition has. This would ensure that there would be a person at the head of that body who would enjoy a reputation and be a credible person, regardless of which government is currently in power, left or right. In particular, we think it is necessary in the Zares Group for financial police officers to have so-called police powers, enhanced by the powers of tax administration inspectors and the customs administration of the Republic of Slovenia. We also believe that the financial police should be placed within the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia, because it would be a priority to pursue economic crime. Some other countries such as Italy and France have also introduced the financial police. Since the current situation in Slovenia is such that we undoubtedly need a body that will work effectively in the field of economic crime, I ask you: Will you personally support this body to be introduced? I know that it has been all two weeks since the extraordinary meeting, but I believe that the situation is quite urgent, and, last but not least, it has been called for extraordinary meetings, that certain procedures have also been carried out within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and that is why I am interested in your opinion or your personal position.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u41	Thank you for that question. Otherwise, it is not the first time in the National Assembly, many times it has been, say, in the past 10, 15 years. If I answer directly first, I personally favor this idea and the Government is seriously considering this proposal. However, I would like to comment on this enlightenment, which has suddenly also come to a certain part of this national assembly at a time when institutions already regularly engaged in the pursuit of organised crime, especially economic and corruption, when their work produces results. I hope that all these proposals, when they need to be reorganised right now, are not motivated by these results. Because there are strong proposals in the years when there were no results, we have not heard. But if we let this go and concentrate on the answer itself, the government is seriously considering this proposal, including some others. Some have already been studied and even sent forward for consideration, some of the laws you have already received. In short, we are considering measures, the possibility of taking measures that will make this fight significantly more effective. By not holding hands until now, and because of the organisational, educational and other measures taken during the first half of this mandate, institutions fighting organised crime have achieved some degree when their efforts are effective. And by the way, that's what started to bother some very much. The amendment of the Penal Code - a few months ago, the National Assembly adopted amendments to the Penal Code, which introduced a new criminal offence of tax evasion. The acceptance of these changes has come under severe opposition. Yes, not everyone said they were against this change, but when the veto fell on this law, and if they had not gathered the absolute majority of support in this National Assembly, there would have been no change. And those who proposed the veto knew why they were proposing it. The fact that they're up against life sentences and the rest of it was more fairy tales for the ignorant. Otherwise, this criminal code has brought some instruments that actually enable a successful fight against corruption and organised crime. Not only are we studying the possible introduction of new institutions, new organisational solutions, and existing institutions are working. On the other hand, the government has also proposed a necessary amendment to the legislation. In this mandate, some of the solutions already on your benches will be adopted, and this will increase the effectiveness of the work of existing bodies. As far as what the opposition is supposed to call the chief of financial police is concerned, this is a very interesting proposal. In the previous term, we have always heard that the opposition has no responsibility for someone who has lost in the elections. Whatever we proposed in this direction of greater control was rejected with disgust. For three years now, we have been listening to how the opposition should actually rule. If you find me a case in the world where the opposition appoints the chief of the financial police, if they do, I will gladly listen to this proposal and I think it will be a real revolution in the system of parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u42	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u43	I regret that the Prime Minister of the Government, in that first part, was again a good old Prime Minister of the Government, cynical and unworthy of the President of the Government, for he, instead of answering with an answer, suggested by instigation. To claim that there are any results in these investigations is quite unusual. Since it turned out that the affair "clean shovel" has been named after the Lopata resting place, where a member of your cabinet met with one of those who have been imprisoned in this affair, and when it turns out that in the matter of "aircraft tower" some prominent members of your party are involved, I do not see any results. Maybe the others know, but they don't. And if we discuss it at this level, we will not get too far, Mr President of the Government. I asked you a very specific question and expected a concrete answer. Nor is it true that the opposition should appoint the chief of the financial police, as you have by the way framed. I said it was called the Government, of course, but with the agreement of the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances, where most of the opposition has it. So both those who rule and those who are in opposition must agree with the chairman. It's about constructive suggestions. And what we think it would be necessary to do is to ensure that citizens can somehow have the opportunity, on the one hand, to make a statement as to whether we are for a list of assets, to be able to determine whether the property is in line with income or whether some individuals who have very much property can make very large amounts of real estate and so on show very low incomes, or whether they will be able to justify it at all. That's what this is about. And citizens say that when they turn to the tax administration, they are sent from there to the criminal police, from the criminal police to the customs administration, because these institutions do not cooperate with each other. And there's no results.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u45	I guess the results aren't as much as anyone would like. Why they are not, I think I explained at the end of the extraordinary session where these issues were discussed. But if there were no results, we wouldn't be able to agree. Because if there were no results, there wouldn't be any excitement in the last few months. When it comes to criminal investigation, corruption and economic crime in construction, to correct you, the court has initiated an investigation, a judicial investigation is under way. Now it's not just a suspicion, it's a reasonable suspicion where a serious judicial investigation is under way, and I hope that any sentence will not stop it. There was another result that went slightly unnoticed, and I think it is very interesting for a fellow Member. The Supreme Court ruled in the case of the ownership of BTC and concluded that small shareholders had been injured and that things had to be returned to the original state. I think that this judgment, which is a judicial decision and a case is closed, is also very interesting for that specialist from the Faculty of Economics who justified this management decision and wrote that it is a takeover, where the interests of small shareholders are very well insured and professionally covered by some very high thefts, as is now clearly confirmed by a court decision. The judicial branch of the authorities has thus begun to produce some results in this particular case. I think it's a precedent, which will probably give rise to faster results in other cases that are in court mills. Much of what the financial police are now supposed to be investigating has also been covered by the opinions of the so-called profession that defended the theft.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u46	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u47	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that a public debate be held on the response of the President of the Government, because I believe that the Prime Minister did not respond satisfactorily, he did not respond clearly. In addition, it would be appropriate to determine whether in the cases mentioned above, there are indeed conditions for the prosecution of organised crime without the financial police, especially since we have seen in the case of some of the largest capital concentrations that, for example, the representative of the Government was sitting in the supervisory council, that is, the one sitting left of the President of the Government, and is called the Secretary-General of the Government and we rightly doubt that in these cases the police and the Prosecutor's Office can do their job correctly. It would also be appropriate to determine in some other cases, which were mentioned, whether the police and the prosecution would be able to do their job correctly, especially because it is obvious that the former cabinet member of the Prime Minister who has apparently withdrawn from office after this affair or during this affair. The President of the Government does not remember who he is, and says that he does not really know this young economist well, he would also be able to refresh the memory of who he is. I also believe that it would be appropriate to hold a debate to see also in the case that the President of the Government mentioned why Attorney General Barbara Brezigar screwed up. The prosecution has screwed up in the case that the President of the Government mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u48	Mr. Lahovnik, you, too, are opening new things [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u49	I give you my reasons, Mr President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u50	at which [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u51	I only substantiate why public debate is needed [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u52	is not able to answer. [[...]] Please be correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u53	I justify the need for a public debate on the response of the Prime Minister and I do not repeat new [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u54	Abuse of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Lahovnik [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u55	I believe that the public debate on the need for the introduction of financial police will be very useful, and I believe, given that we have decided in the National Assembly that the Government should consider the possibility of introducing financial police in order to support this in the coalition once for a change. [[...]] [[...]] If you do not, it will be clear once again that they want to put things under the carpet or put them under the treatment of those people whom you have set up at the beginning of this mandate, who are clearly not going to get to the bottom of some of the matters involving the highest authorities' representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u56	Thank you. I again warn all those who abuse the procedural proposal to state new findings, new inducements to do so when the minister or prime minister has the opportunity to respond. If you're not so brave, you'd better keep your eye on yourself. On the proposal by Mr Lahovnik to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary questions, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's votes, which is Tuesday, 17 June. Mr Jožef Horvat will now put the question to the Prime Minister of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u57	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Honourable President of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, other representatives of the Government, dear colleagues and distinguished visitors on the balcony. We are in the month when we will celebrate the greatest national holiday, the day of statehood, when we will remember the historic moment when we first raised the Slovenian national flag to the mast. At that time, we wanted not only a legal but also an ethical state. As the Slovenian transition was shamefully marked by a number of unethical acquisitions of Slovenian companies, many today rightly wonder whether Slovenian independence is still a value. Tough question, maybe even painful. However, it is necessary to make it clear. If someone in an unethical way has acquired property, state property, then we call it theft. The theft is condemned and punished in all mature democracies, and the stolen property must return. Unfortunately, the location of state property was enabled, as some Slovenian politicians in the highest positions in the past have offered political protection for the national interest all the time. It is therefore right that the State Assembly adopted twelve decisions at its 37th extraordinary meeting on Tuesday, 3 June on the issue of concentration of capital in postal collectors and highlighted the issue of concentration of media ownership in relation to the constitutional right to information. Dear Mr. President of the Government! Although the deadlines prescribed by the Government have not yet expired, I ask you: How did the Government approach the decisions proposed by the National Assembly in the resolution of the Government? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u58	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u59	Thank you for asking. Apparently, this topic is real, and so is it. So some of the proposals, as I said before, the government is still studying. Some have already been implemented or realized. So it's 12.6. At the meeting, the government adopted a new law on the securities market and a new law on insurance. You already have both marriages in the National Assembly. Both novelties increase supervisory powers and also strengthen the institutional independence of the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Securities Market Agency. When it comes to the Office for the Protection of Competition, the Office has been active since the creation of human resources refreshment. I would not have talked about the time before, because this has already been discussed at an extraordinary meeting and the results are already here. Already those who have so far been involved and the active functioning of the supervisory institutions themselves has been preventive. According to my information, Banka Slovenije also has a report on the role of banks in taking over the majority stake in Pivovarna Laško and Mercury, and I think that the supervisory institutions, also because of this encouragement that came from members of the National Assembly at the extraordinary meeting, are now working very actively. In view of the non-truths that have been said before, I must say that the Secretary-General of the Government is not a member of the Supervisory Board in Istrabenz, I think this company was meant to be. From the day the "parkyard" was discovered or the attempt to take over, which had previously been publicly denied, you could have all followed, even though the Government did not appoint him, the Secretary-General withdrew from the Supervisory Board on the same day. Therefore, it cannot be blamed or in any way impedes any investigation. No member of my cabinet has ever, and even now, there's no investigation. Some were involved in drawing attention to others and in watering down the shock that occurred after it was clear that the supervisory institutions in Slovenia were finally trained to fight organised economic crime and that they also dealt with those who seemed untouchable. That's when all kinds of stories began to get tangled up. And it's just that I haven't read it yet so I can end up arresting myself. The investigations will continue, all these authorities now know absolutely, and this is a big difference from previous mandates, so that they can act independently under the Constitution and the law, that before the law we are all equal, that it is not untouchable. This will, I hope, also affect those who write different professional bases or are considered to be acquisition experts, who have actually promoted the highest concentration of capital through "postboxes". When one of the Members who had asked earlier nominated for a minister in this government, the weekly Mladina published his portrait, in which he wrote that his public career had started at a time when the so-called brewery war between Interbrev and Laški za Pivovarna Union in this battle had been very clearly put on the side of Laško, he was writing studies for this and he set up a professional basis or part of the so-called professional basis for this concentration to take place. Then he writes in this portrait: "This is why Laško, who became the largest owner of Del, wanted to become a member of the Supervisory Board of this newspaper house, but was then appointed Minister and was prevented."
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u60	Thank you. We're done asking questions to the Prime Minister. We turn to the question raised at the 39th meeting of the assembly. The Minister of Culture, Dr Vasko Simoniti, will answer Mrs Majda Širca's question on the course of reconstruction and reconstruction of the Slovenian National Theatre, Opera and Ballet Ljubljana. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The question I received was: How is the reconstruction and resurgence of the Slovenian National Theatre, Opera and Ballet in Ljubljana taking place? I can answer that the construction is carried out in accordance with the timetable set at the time of the signing of the contract. This date holds until this moment. Procedures for the management of the renewal of the project, the method of selecting the operators, the payment of situations, the exercise of control, performance and the like shall be subject to continuous verification by the supervisory authorities, the Court of Auditors, the State Audit Commission and the Commission to prevent corruption. No infringements have been found up to this point. Therefore, I say that the construction takes place by example, that the water is professionally impeccable, even by the contractor. No one denies that there are also circumstances that were previously unforeseeable and manifest only in the course of performance. Nevertheless, everything is proceeding in accordance with the timetable as planned. In public, however, there are inventions, lies, and instigations that have no basis. Anyone can view this building, which is 50 meters away from the National Assembly, as construction progresses. The instigation and ingenuity of the fact that there's only a cave there, of course, they don't. This object grows, is visible and will soon reach the upper ceiling, that is, the gabarite, which is projected to be high. Never, as we've heard, has there been a flood of water breaking into a building pit alone, has there ever been. The building pit was carried out in a highly professional and competent manner. From all the data available to me, it follows that as much resources as had been provided for until then by the Treaty and within the means envisaged for the entire construction. We believe that such a realization will also occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u62	Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u63	Of course, such an answer pleases me most. I was already pleased with the explanation given on the parent board that it was a shiny renovation of the opera house in Ljubljana. But I am confused, given that there are information that reaches the public that the contract value of the project itself is already in the first stage of the construction works, and there are three phases that this value has exceeded the planned cost for 100% of the first phase itself. And as the available data show, the plan that was prepared for 2006-2007 is one-third smaller than that contract, the minister you signed for the implementation of which is 26 million and a half euros. At the same time, the plan is significantly smaller. We are familiar with the problems that arose when the pit was still open. We're wondering if this shovel that runs these SCT and Vegrad deals works according to plans, especially because you signed the key contract, and then soon after you signed some annex. I ask: What are the costs of out-of-the-way roaming at the Economic Exhibition, as this is also being complained of by the opera’s management and media providing this information? What damage will be caused to all other investments if the funds so increase for the equipment currently envisaged? Then someone will have to face the triple if not the 50-year-old possibility of using the funds to prepare and equip the buildings and premises and technical infrastructures themselves. If they're going to eat each other [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u65	Thank you very much. It would be remarkable to hear a Member who claims that there is information that appears in the media about the fact that it is also supposed to be a 100% increase in funds from the signature itself and that the opera leadership is complaining. It would be great for the Slovenian public to provide this information to the Member's own people, because otherwise we consider them to be just rumours that have bad intentions. Just as the Member of Parliament has spoken many times before, at least twice, in Parliament or on the Committee, that the water has watered Oprah, which is a complete non-reality. And that's what I said in the first part of my answer. Until we hear what this information is, except, of course, in the yellow press, which may be closer to someone closer to serious newspapers, but I can't help it. Therefore, it would be nice to hear complete information and from whom, by name and surname, who disseminates this information in public about the excess of all incomes. In the first phase of the 3 million-euro contract, EUR 517 thousand was concluded in the second phase. And these are the means by which we will try to get Oprah to the end. If there are any changes, I can't put my hand in the fire, but for now it's running as we predicted. There are pressures for certain increases. As the Member of Parliament has mentioned, we have a key contract, and we have already measured and weighed and verified that it is necessary to stick to it. That there is pressure for certain increases to talk about unforeseen costs and the like that will have to be carried out, I am not saying that this fight will not continue. An annex was signed on 3 October 2007 for 240 000 euros, but this is all within that sum that is still foreseen. About how Opera works. Opera works relatively correctly within the possibilities it has, but is homeless, so to speak, but in 2006 it had 5 prime ministers, in 2007 it will be 5 [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and in the coming year 5. [[...]] A certain number of visits have decreased, that is true, but this is totally natural in the situation in which they work. But we hope that Opera will be finished in the year [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u66	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u67	In fact, I have a procedural proposal suggested by the Minister himself when he said that there was a need to resolve doubts about the writing of the yellow press and all the questions raised and to provide information. I assume that such a proposal, which the Minister himself proposes, will be answered and explained in this regard, and at the same time confronts quite clearly shocking facts that the opera activity in Ljubljana has somehow been at the lowest possible level since 1918, that the number of operas has decreased since before the renovation period, namely in the 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007 season by 72%, that the number of opera performances has decreased by 86%, I give data [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u68	Mrs. Shirca [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u69	But it certainly is. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u70	Spending New Stuff [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u71	Minister himself proposed [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u72	Spending new things, spending new things [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u73	is [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u74	Procedural proposal please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u75	to be consistent [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u76	for consideration of the response [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u77	The Rules of Procedure shall be held at the discretion of the Minister. [[...]] Sam suggested it was necessary, I absolutely agree. This is the largest investment in culture. If it is still necessary to count on the annexes to the key contract, then this city may be entitled to be discussed. As I say, it is not only my wish, but also the minister who wants transparency, as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u78	Thank you. On the proposal by Mrs Shirca to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture to her question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote on Tuesday, 17 June. We are now turning to questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Bojan Kotnic has the floor to ask the Minister of Environment and Space and the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ministers or respected ministers, as long as you remain in the Chamber. As an honourable Member, I committed myself at the beginning of my mandate to ask representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia how to place a fast road within the third development axis into space and, of course, to ask questions about when the construction of this road will begin and when this road will end. The term of office of the National Assembly shall expire. The Government's mandate is also expiring, so it is only right that we should try to gain an assessment of how far this project is in progress, which we are paying particular attention to in our area as well as in the neighbouring valleys. The fifth largest city in Slovenia, which Velenje is, and of course everything that gravitys on Velenje and which includes Velenje as an economic, cultural, administrative and political centre is, of course, very important when this third development axis is actually "get" in quotes. Troubles on the road connecting the highway cross to our space are indeed a great cross. Exports from the motorway, existing, are inappropriate. That's still what I'm saying. Because it is made in the form of a diamond, a child would be needed depending on the number of cars involved and excluded from the highway cross, even for safety reasons. The accuracy of the road to Velenje is catastrophic. Traffic safety on this road is also catastrophic. All roads, including the others that link Velenje to the highway cross, are in catastrophic condition. Some are also injured by the construction of the highway cross. In this area, things are not going as well as they should or as we really want to say not to deserve. Not to mention the economy that is fatefully linked to this road, not to mention Gorenje, which is fatally linked to the flow of this road and to the ability to accept goods and transport products from Velenje. So I ask both Mr. Minister: at what stage are we at this point or how far is the project we call the fast road or the backbone of the third development axis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u80	Thank you. Minister of Transport first. Here you are, Mr. Zhagar Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for asking. As you know, the procedure for placing the route is run by the Ministry of the Environment and my colleague will certainly add something to this topic. As far as I am concerned, our ministry is actively involved in coordinating the professional basis for the preparation of state spatial plans. Due to the many complications and oppositions of the public and the operators of space regulation on individual parts of the route, the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Environment and Space will, in those days, - this initiative I have already signed today - address the initiative to divide the northern part of the third development axis into four sections. Separate spatial plans should continue on the basis of an optimized proposal for the most appropriate alternative solution. In any way, we want to speed up the process of putting the road route into space, because for shorter sections, of course, it will be easier and faster to prepare professional bases and a complementary draft of the State Spatial Plan, including the possibility of dividing the production of these between several operators. However, for all parts of the third development axis, the Ministry of Transport will assume a greater role after the adoption of the State Spatial Plan when the route or sections of the route are placed in space. In view of the experience gained so far in similar motorway projects, a phase until the acquisition of the building permit could be completed within approximately one and a half years and only the construction of the section within two and a half years. It should be noted, however, that no complications in the award of public contracts are included in these deadlines, either for the production of technical documentation or for the construction or for the acquisition and purchase of land. We are, of course, trying to do this division now in order to make those sections that we can put into space more quickly. Our wish is to start as soon as possible from the highway to Velenj, which is this section that is most burdened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u82	Thank you. And the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member Kontic! I'm just going to fill in a quick response from my fellow mags. We're starving. I would only inform you of the events that took place after your last question, which was four months ago, I think it was at a March or February session. In April 2008, our Ministry of Government took note of the procedure for drawing up a State Spatial Plan for this section of the road under the third development axis, with a proposal for expert solutions to continue the process of putting new road links into space. The previous informal procedure for this step was a very important working meeting, at which we invited the mayors of all municipalities connected by this road and all civil initiatives that have spontaneously or otherwise emerged in the last year. At this meeting, we then made it clear that, although no consensus was reached on the route itself, we will proceed with the procedure. And at this meeting, the vast majority supported our decision. However, due to the manageability of further work, a professional proposal was adopted today, which was further elaborated today by a fellow minister, to decide to divide the whole section into sub-sections, which will allow for faster production of all necessary professional bases and the preparation of spatial acts for each of the sub-sections. Procedures for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan for each of the subsectors will be carried out in parallel. We therefore allow the possibility that the dynamics of the preparation of spatial acts will vary according to the specificity of each sub-section. I am sure that this will also happen in real terms and that we will devote the most energy to that section of the road, or the move of the road, which you have also talked about in the Member of Parliament. I know this burden, and I know we owe it to do it first. Where are we today? Today, we are in the process of concluding orders to produce all the necessary professional bases. And our ambition and desire is to have a public hearing and public hearing by the end of this year. And of this, it will be crucial procedural, with regard to time dynamics, how the state space act will be prepared for adoption by the Government. The deadlines discussed by Minister Žerjav are real if this time is between public disclosure and public hearing and the adoption of a positive time in the government itself and there are no major complications.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u84	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u85	Of course, it is highly optimistic to expect that there would be no complications in placing a fast road anywhere, not just in this area, that there would be no civil initiatives and that, despite the urgency and necessity of this project, there would be no opposition. It's logical for some to object. Logically, they oppose those who will get so close to them that it will reduce the quality of their lives, but good. This is an integral part of the procedure that will have to be carried forward. Today I listened to the President of the Government, who was very, very much reminded of each time period, and I talked about how the predictions were coming true. Let me say that this same Prime Minister's announcement was that in 2008 we will begin to build this fast road. Now we can call it a prediction without serious thought, but we can also call it a tiny lie of the great masters of deception for the needs of daily politics. But it's an integral part of politics. We were talking about planting a shovel. We got a clean shovel, and in this area we have a real shovel. It's not planted and it's not stained in a way that starts to build this road. In this regard, I am particularly interested, given the announcement made by Minister Žerjev, which I could also read in one of the Slovenian weeks, that a more radical intervention will be necessary on this existing road if it is not placed in the space in due course. I wonder: What is this time of appointment for you? According to this information that you gave to the ministers, at least six years along this road, we will not be driving. What does that mean, of course? You said five and a half years. I've been adding six more years for the reserve, so that's six years. By then, what are we going to do in this traffic section?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u86	Thank you. Who's going to answer? Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u87	I mean, Mr. Ambassador, if we add up the hands that my fellow Minister of Mags was talking about. Crane, then you calculated too much. Aha, do you have a newspaper article? To his current response, I think they're real numbers. When you talked about opposing those who fear that their future important road connection would make their quality of life worse, we found another paradox. Civil initiatives are also being developed for those who fear that the road will not come near them and cross their lands. That's why things are so complicated sometimes. With regard to the deadlines previously discussed and discussed by the President of the Government, I would like to explain the following. First, it was a principled decision to go through the preparation of a state spatial plan for the third overall development axis - from the Austrian border to the Croatian border. This is an extremely large supply, because to a large extent, we are putting this road link in a new space. Then we decided, I think we have just decided that we will catalyze the link between the Austrian border and the Ljubljana-Cele motorway. Now I think that it has matured the decision to give special priority to the most burdened part of the road connection between Velenje, if I say so on condition, and to the highway Ljubljana-Cele. And if that happens, I can assure you that the years you talked about will at least halve. You've been talking about eight years. That's not gonna happen. I think that in an open conversation with the municipalities on this roadway we have found a relatively optimal option, which will later find the best solution within the framework of the professional basis. Why is this so important? That after the construction permit and land purchases have been prepared, there will be no complications and they will end up at some European institutions. That is why this time we put in communication with people and congregations was so precious. Maybe this is the last time we've been in communication on this function. I hope we've given up real hands. But I would also like to thank you, because in the last year and a half, you have kept a very consistent line on the early placement of this road into space.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u88	Thank you. I'm asking Dr. Slavinec if, despite the absence of the Minister for Higher Education, she wants to ask a question. Here you go, Mr. Slavinec.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. That's right. For the third month in a row, I have been asking a question to the Minister, which is not, so all three of these answers, I hope that I can expect at the next meeting. However, the case relates to the Law on Basic Development Programmes in Science and Higher Education in 2010-2014, which recently took place in a debate where the Minister replied, inter alia, that the existing mechanisms allow the development of study programmes, the financing of research work at universities, in short, that funding is in order and that it is not necessary to adopt this law. Unfortunately, the practice shows otherwise. Otherwise it shows in at least two cases. One is that private schools of socio-humanism are still born as mushrooms in the rain, which, in a way, because of the cost of studying and because students are large, they also allow private people to earn money and, on the other hand, the state does not monitor the economic needs of the economy, does not monitor that the economy needs engineers, that it needs naturalists, that it needs personnel whose studies are objectively more expensive and that it does not pay to establish private colleges and that it does not support the establishment of such colleges or the functioning of their state. The second is that there are great differences between funding of the same study programmes, specifically at the University of Ljubljana and at the University of Maribor. The Faculty of Science and Mathematics of the University of Maribor receives for exactly the same or comparable study programmes of science and mathematics half the resources, half the money received by the University of Ljubljana, specifically the Faculty of Mathematics and Physics, for example. For this reason, I am curious: What will the distinguished Minister do and why does she allow this fact that a student at a comparable, similar program at the University of Ljubljana is worth twice as much as he is at the University of Maribor? Why does the Ministry of Higher Education not take a more active approach to solving the problem? The solution is very simple, since Article 13 of the existing regulation clearly and loudly states that the factors of the study group and the classification of study areas can be changed by the Minister on the basis of the Ministry's analyses or the proposal of the University. It's a proposal like this. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The University of Maribor sent to the Ministry in December 2007 and the new year will now begin. [[...]] I want the Ministry to answer me, so this matter will be settled by next month. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u90	Thank you. The Minister will answer the following, this is at the July session of the National Assembly. Mr Srečko Hvauc will now ask the Minister of Economy a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the European and Slovenian economy, even in the Slovenian economy, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises play an extremely important role. These are companies that are driving the economic progress of innovation, companies that create many new jobs and are a generator of global prosperity. It is therefore very important that the State provides appropriate conditions and support to these smallest economic operators, not only to these, but also to large ones, but it is important that clear support is given to those smaller economic operators who need different assistance or different operating conditions than those of the largest companies. We have already made clear our support for entrepreneurship in the pre-election programme in our parliamentary group and in the entire Slovenian Democratic Party. To this end, this support was not only declaratory. To that end, we have organised numerous meetings with craftsmen, entrepreneurs, their representatives, associations, talked to the owners of these companies and looked for them, selected good proposals first, and sought solutions to the problems facing this type of entrepreneurship. We have also supported a number of laws and amendments to the laws that would improve the conditions for the operation of these companies I am referring to. Slovenian craftsmen and entrepreneurs first presented the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship at the third trade and entrepreneurship forum in April 2005. Such requirements were then followed in the years to come. Some, though, used this as a criticism. We have taken this differently, well-intentioned, as a legitimate attempt by those engaged in activities that want to have knowledge that have the will to improve the conditions for these companies to operate. Mr. Minister, I ask you: How many of the main or most important requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship have been fully implemented so far, or at least partially achieved? I also ask: What measures have been taken to support craft and entrepreneurship in addition to these requirements during this period?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u93	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Member! Indeed, I fully agree with you that they are a very important, dynamic and flexible part of Slovenia's small and medium-sized economy, including micro-enterprises. That is why we have paid very much attention to this segment in all our policies. On the one hand, to ensure a normative environment. This is said to be what can be said to debirocratise their business, to ensure an efficient business environment and, of course, also to provide development funds, either in the form of loans, grants and the like. And most importantly, have open communication with representatives of these companies, especially the Chamber of Commerce. I must say, I have obtained information from the Chamber of Commerce on this question. This is certainly an objective, corrective information, because they have not made a request and it is most correct for them to assess how many of these requirements are being met. And let's take a little walk into history, too, according to their records. They say that before the year or about 2000 and before 2000 the government had an average of 100 demands per year. These demands have come up with a bad response. And it's no wonder. The previous governments viewed this as some kind of attack on the government as some kind of criticism. Also in 2003, in the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, for the first time, they organized a forum of entrepreneurship crafts and made some demands, at the time they were 30, and the realisation was zero. That's what they wrote. As early as 2004, they took a slightly stronger hold, placed 73 demands, 6 requirements and 8.3% respectively. Now to the specific forum you mentioned. This was the third forum on 21 April 2005, where out of the 115 requirements laid down were realised, partially realized or in the process of implementation about 50%, it is said, there was close to 60, with 40 % being realized by then. What's most important, you asked. Firstly, the abolition of double issuance of the forms of Apes, Durs, payment of VAT after paid realization, a very important requirement, a gradual reduction of the tax on paid salaries, recognition of the foreign daily allowance for return to Slovenia on the same day and so on, I have here a whole list of these matters. Then it's next year, the fourth forum of trades. Additional requirements, a total of 120 requirements, are laid down. Of these, approximately 45% were realized, partially realized or in the process of realization. What are the most important things? Most of these relate to taxation, simplification of tax procedures, an increase in the tax threshold for standardised expenditure from €25,000 to €42,000, an extremely important increase in the threshold for taxation, VAT, from around €20,800 to €25,000. In my opinion, it is very important to amend the company law, allowing for a simpler transformation of the independent entrepreneur into a society with limited liability and so on. New requirements were also made in 2007, some 60 of them. I am glad that the number has decreased dramatically, as many have been realized. And even if I walk through this statistics, it was realized, partially realized or in the process of realization about 43%. I am therefore pleased that we are having a very continuous dialogue, dealing with demands and providing a more favourable business environment for these small and medium-sized enterprises. And a little bit about the funding. In 2004, EUR 10 million was distributed to 100 companies, and in 2007 EUR 65 million to 650 companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u94	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Hwauc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u95	Thank you again, Mr. President. In our Group of Members, we are aware that creating favourable conditions for the development of these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is a continuous process, an unfinished story, which is unfinished because the situation in the market is changing, around and so on. We are also pleased that the number of these requirements, it is said, is actually decreasing these most pressing problems that plague these craftsmen and entrepreneurs. However, we do know that a few years ago this year, as in previous years, new demands were put in place in this forum. We are aware that there may be little awkward time, in fact the mandate of this government is slowly expiring. However, I would like to ask you: Has the Government, as far as these new 2008 requirements are concerned, already prepared any concrete proposals for at least some of them to be resolved? K What are the chances that by the end of this short period of time we will be trying to resolve as many of these new new requirements as possible from this year? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u97	Thank you very much. That's right. Solving the demands of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is a continuous process. There are always some new circumstances and you need to be dealt with up-to-date. Also in this year's forum, a number of demands were made, including in the context of sectoral ministries. And by the way, I know that it was that day in the government that we adopted some solutions that met their requirements. I therefore expect that about half of these requirements will be resolved this year. The measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia go mainly four ways. All four of these are covered by the Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness Promotion Programme 2007-2013 adopted by the Government and implemented by the Government. The first most important, in my opinion, is the promotion of entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurship in Slovenia must be a value. This should especially encourage young people to be creative, to be independent, to be brave in coping with these challenges. Another important parameter is to debirocratise the country, to deregulation as much as possible, to allow for as few permits as possible, where this is essential for life, health and safety. The third important pillar is the involvement of economic operators with knowledge institutions, i.e. the integration between institutes, universities and businesses. This gives birth to some critical mass of knowledge, which then gives birth to innovation and thus to greater competitiveness. And the fourth important pillar is financial resources. Businesses need to be provided, in particular, in those initial stages and also in the development phase of the corresponding financial resources, so that they have a path to realisation. All of this is done by amending legislation, using European funds and also budgetary resources. However, I must say that an important step forward is also achieved by the adoption of the Risk Capital Companies Act, which also enables the implementation of risk capital, private and public in Slovenia. We will continue this continuous policy of support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We do not want to or will never ignore large companies. They need some specific care and help, and these little ones are still so sensitive and therefore special attention is worth it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Finnish criminals are already on their way to Slovenia. They're going to visit the D.A., the police, and the anti-corruption commission. That's the last news we heard on one of the TVs since yesterday. This confirms that corruption is an evil that cannot be persecuted and eradicated in a simple way. Especially since it is the conduct of persons who have power and influence in particular, they are linked or even part of the official nomenclature. Therefore, in my view, the credibility of swearing against corruption and organised economic crime is also reflected in the relationship between the executive branch and its authorities and the anti-corruption commission. This cannot simply be the fact that the government is trying to eliminate it as a repugnant and harmful bird. Nor is it that other state authorities oppose cooperation with it. Therefore, in my view, it is quite unbelievable for the rule of law that the police, as a state authority with a duty to cooperate with the Commission, are Parliamenting and conducting public dialogue. More. The police are even threatening to prosecute the commission if they have failed to notify the police in time of the suspected crime in the armored area eight times eight times. So the two most important authorities in the country to fight organised economic crime are in their hair, at a time when we predict that we are ready and trained to fight organised economic crime more vigorously. Something's not right here. Someone's not being honest here. Someone's cheating here. That is why I ask you: How do you assess as an internal minister, in the composition of which the police, the last statement and the public controversy of the President of the Commission to prevent the corruption of Drag Kos and the Chief of Criminal Police, Aleksandr Jevšek, in the light of the predicted successful fight against economic crime? Do you think that the cooperation between the police and the Commission so far is satisfactory? If you do not, what will you do or what will you do?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you so much for asking. I think that some questions have been very well asked, just as the Member of Parliament has asked them. Above all, who deceives and who defames in public. As we know, my subordinate is in the sense that I am the head of the entire ministry, only indirectly; also the head of the criminal police, because his superior, the Chief of Police, is my direct subordinate, so I cannot talk about how Mr Kos works, because I am not responsible for evaluating his work. But it doesn't matter. Given all the dilemmas and all the debates that often occur in the public, it is very clear that the police are a law enforcement body. Police are pursuing economic crime, organised crime, including corruption. Finally, this year the police increased the number of crimes they dealt with by almost 5% more than in the same period last year. During this time, it has also successfully completed investigations into these crimes. There were also 19 acts of pure corruption. In fact, we can have economic crime, where people are accused not only of corrupt acts, but also of some other acts, and it is only one of the crimes that have taken place, and we have committed acts of pure corruption and nothing else. Of course, in the words of corruption and in the words that Mr Kos has very often used and debated in public, that other authorities are bottlenecks, that they are not successful, and that he has cited numbers, but of course there is something very clear to say. The police, the prosecution and the court can only act in accordance with the Penal Code. The Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia has a clear and precise definition of what crimes of corruption are. Very clear and precise. The problem is that we also have the Anti-Corruption Act, which does not define the crime of corruption in the same way, has a much broader definition of what corruption is, and we have many of the principled opinions we receive from the Commission to the police. This principled opinion is, of course, always being scrutinized. And if we look at pure statistics, we can find out that out of 141 applications or documents, anonymous reports and other opinions that the Commission gave to the police last year, 14 cases have been criminalised, that a large majority of all other cases have been reported to the District Attorney's Office, but you know the procedures. When a report comes to the prosecution, if prosecutors assess that there is more to be done and that a criminal charge can be brought, they direct the work of the police and, of course, the work continues. Sadly, though, many of the anonymities we receive are unspecified. They're made-up people who don't exist when we check them out. Those names don't exist. There are no transactions that are listed, never existed at any address. We have such general dictions that somehow then realize: judges are corrupt, police are corrupt, municipal officials are corrupt. Of course, in this way we cannot detect corruption under the Penal Code - market inspectors are corrupt and so on. We need a concrete case, we need a name and then we can initiate all procedures and try to prove corruption and then, of course, initiate criminal proceedings. With regard to cooperation between the Commission and the criminal police, I must say that this cooperation is ongoing. The police are legally required to cooperate with all, not only state institutions, including all citizens and all others who report any suspicion of a crime. And the police are doing it. And it rarely happens when we explore a successful action, even because an anonymous application came to the anti-corruption commission - I counted, for example, how many cases in last year - the commission answered and commended us for the good cooperation between the criminal police and the commission. I do not think this is a serious dispute, but it is a serious problem that arises from the definition of what corruption is and from the two different concepts defined in the Penal Code and defined in the Corruption Act. And here's the problem where there's always a field where we can fish in the mud.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u102	Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, I'll buy most of what you just said because it's at this general level. But since you were talking about a specific case where I think the involvement of the police and someone else in this country, and when I gave my last conscience yesterday as a starting point, I must, like today's President of the Government, take the paper into my hands, and when I said that the Finnish crime expedition is coming to Slovenia, and from a direct statement by a representative, the leader of this group, quote: "Do you suspect that Slovenians were involved in this dirty business?" Eric Bjorkqvist's answer is, "Of course, Slovenians are involved." You know that this is denied in Slovenia. And the second question, which is whether the information for the investigation came from Slovenia, which, last but not least, our defence minister, has claimed, was the answer inherited: "No, it came from a third country." And because obviously this is also a corrupt act in this case, suspicion, indictance of corruption is, in my opinion, a specific case where the Slovenian police could be involved and there could be some results already. In particular, because we are taking the matter not least in Parliament and in politics, but because we are dealing with it, the professional authorities are silent and, once again, they are also misleading the Slovenian public on these two statements by this Finnish criminalist, which I quoted from yesterday's TV clip, which he said directly to the camera, and because of Finland as a member of the European Union, I have no reason not to believe this man in what he said in the camera.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The question that you have now raised directly touches on the question raised by your colleague below, but I will nevertheless tell you what has been done in all this time since I was also informed by the media that corruption is potentially taking place; until it is proven, it is difficult to say that they are happening or that they have been happening. Yes, we are the rule of law, and we must respect these principles, and I must be careful how I express myself in this regard. I have personally been in contact with the Finnish Minister, who I have asked to cooperate with, that the Slovenian police are available for any operational work if they need our assistance in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Crime police have been in contact with the highest level, the chief of crime police has been in contact, telephone, operational, many deals have been made. Unfortunately, I can't tell you the details. You know you're asking me about an operationally viable matter. I don't know details about an operational living matter. I only know what was going on at this highest level. But I can tell you something else: that in our media it has been long and widely written how exactly the Anti-Corruption Commission has been in possession of documentation concerning Patrio for several months. And the police sent a letter to the Anti-Corruption Commission on 26.5.2008 urging the Commission to immediately and immediately hand over all the documentation it has, because we are the law enforcement body and we have to work with this documentation. The Commission is not a law enforcement authority. And then we received a reply from the Commission on 29.5.2008, which I quote: "We both inform you that bribery by employees in Patria, investigated by the Finnish security authorities and mentioned in your letter, has not been dealt with by the Commission." They don't have any documents. I work very hard then that someone in the media is saying something when we're asking him to, and he's not. And the sentence you mentioned in the previous part of the question - and I expected you to ask me exactly about these matters - was aimed at this, not as a threat to the Chief of Criminal Police to the Chief of the Anti-Corruption Commission, but as a warning. Anyone in that country who finds out about the crime is not only obliged by the State authorities to inform the law enforcement authorities and give them all the documentation he has, otherwise he has committed the crime himself. And that's all the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission has been alerted to. And later on, we saw from the documents that the documentation clearly does not have an anti-corruption commission, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u106	Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u107	Thank you. Under Rule 264 of the Rules of Procedure, I would suggest that we still hold a broader debate and I will not delay this argument. I'm going to quote, too, but I don't want to wonder who's acting legally, who's illegal. But yesterday's information, the statement made in public, the Finns expect an explanation of why the Slovenians have only started the investigation now, although they are supposed to have data on alleged corruption since spring 2007. I ask once again, if you'll excuse me, the president of the government quoted from the newspaper today what one of the economists has said, and so I quote from the public media what has been said. And if the Prime Minister has that right, so do I. Therefore, I propose that matters be clarified, who is what and when he knew how long he knew and whether he acted or did not act, whether he acted legally or not, that we do it at one of the following meetings and that we have this item on the agenda of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u108	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Kumr to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Interior to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of the votes, tomorrow, on Tuesday, 17 June. The question now raised by Maria Possonec, or forgive Mr Saiovic, Minister of Economy and Minister of Environment and Space. Here you go, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. A warm welcome to the representatives of the ministerial assembly. My question concerns the pricing of municipal services in the Republic of Slovenia, here we are in the municipalities and municipal companies and also our citizens and citizens on the one hand between the floor and the other during the avalanche. What's this all about? The European Union directives require municipalities to invest heavily in replacing old asbestos pipelines, building new pipelines, building a new sewage network and building cleaning plants. All of this is still necessary in the light of the environment and indeed right, but only from promises, words and directives cannot be done, so on the one hand we need adequate European resources, the resources of the Republic of Slovenia and the resources provided by the municipal budgets and users. One of the basic principles of the European Union is that it pays. I must say, if we are monitoring the situation in Slovenia a little bit, we see that the prices of municipal services are extremely different. Between the two neighbouring municipalities - because municipal companies manage or offer an equivalent service - prices fluctuate also up to 10 times and most Slovenian public utilities are in losses, and we save the loss by way of write-offs, which are allowed by accounting standards, but the results and consequences will be roughly the same as for cars that are not being driven to the service, as soon as they are stopped or domestically referred to as "sariba", which means that even in the case of municipal infrastructure, if the price policy is not encouraged and regulated by the State, people remain thirsty, dirty, without cleaning facilities. The question was raised by the initiative of a number of Slovenian municipalities, which have been speeding up their investment at both ministries since December: What, in particular, will be the appropriate response of the country? And: What is the state thinking about in this price policy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u110	Thank you. What kind of minister is he going to be? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Dear Member, indeed, the prices of municipal services are a relatively problematic category and here the interests of municipal companies and municipalities are probably a little different than the interests of the individual, the user and probably a little different from those of the State. The country must be very careful because of the inflationary pressures that can be caused by rising prices of municipal services, especially during the period of inflation, which is the case in Slovenia. That is why we have already established a working group in the Government in the adoption of a regulated price management plan for 2006 and 2007, which is said to be a back-to-back period in fact, whose main and main objective was to prepare a single methodology for the pricing of municipal services, thus canceling differences in Slovenia. I fully agree with you that it is illogical, inappropriate for prices to vary greatly, with some of the same common nouns that individual local communities have. It is also true that we are smothered by municipal councils or municipalities with applications to increase the prices of municipal services. The government has decided that until this single methodology, which will spill into the regulation, is adopted and these anomalies are reduced, the Government will not confirm any price increases until then. The Ministry of Environment and Space is responsible for the specific methodology, which also leads the working group, which we are also members of at the Ministry of Economy and the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, as well as the Ministry of Finance. A few working meetings on this subject have been held, I hope that this methodology is just before the end, and I expect all those municipalities that are under some acceptable frameworks to be dealt with and given a positive agreement below. As you know, this Parliament has also adopted, on a proposal from the Government, an amendment to the law or regulation - pardon - and a law that has laid the groundwork for the new government to decide on any increase in prices individually. I think that is right, because the problem is broader than just one source and therefore there is no problem in another than in this relatively complicated single methodology, which I believe will soon be done. A little bit more about this, perhaps, Minister Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I'd love to go on where my colleague is. Vision's closed. First of all, I would like to commend the great investment enthusiasm of Slovenian municipalities, which has continued for the past few years in the field of municipal infrastructure. If we didn't have European money, I don't know what would happen in Slovenia. We have good resources, we have some government money, we have municipal resources. As has been said, on the basis of the rules adopted by our department governing public service delivery standards, such as drinking water, waste water treatment and waste management - and these rules have been adopted in recent years - we have drawn up a regulation in which there is also a uniform methodology as discussed by a fellow minister. This regulation on the pricing of compulsory municipal economic services, environmental protection - very serious material. He received quite a few comments from various departments. We have also included some municipalities and communes in the preparation of this, it is just before that, because it is a rulebook and it does not go formally to the Government to sign it as a minister and it will enter into force. The basic principle of the rule is the one you mentioned: the trigger pays. This is the basic principle of this rule. Perhaps a brief position of our department on prices. They must reflect the real picture of the performance of the public service and its rational organisation and must be comparable to functional and spatially rounded units. This is also the philosophy of the rule of law that I have before me, and I hope that, as it is said, it will be published in a short time. In your question, you also asked in writing how many of these applications were made this year. Of course, these are the roles our department gets, then we're relaying them to the MG, and then this one into the government procedure. But, as has been said, until we have a comprehensive uniform methodology, we do not make a final decision. This year our ministry issued 26 positive and 2 negative opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Comrade Borut Saiovic, supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u115	Thank you very much both ministers for the correct answers. I know the problem is serious and difficult. It would undoubtedly be in Slovenia's best interests to resolve all these issues as soon as possible. See, we are all trying, for example, to move forward in the field of waste management, but the problem of one of the major municipalities in the immediate vicinity of Ljubljana, where they want to introduce a new service, namely the separation of biological waste, which is a big, important and revolutionary step for the municipality. I think it is right to speed up this rule and, before these major investment works begin, to settle these differences in the field without a doubt. For example, I come from a congregation where we have, say, 0.05 euros per cubic meter in wastewater treatment. The neighboring congregation made an application for half the euro. This means, in practice, that for 15,000 people with canals, we collect 40,000 euros and we spend about 180,000 on the most urgent maintenance and intervention works on the canals alone. Of course, fuel incentives also contribute to this story, car parks age from year to year, and I call on both ministries to prepare appropriate solutions as quickly as possible. I see that thinking is true, it is about providing all our citizens and citizens with a better standard and better quality of services. I have to say, in the field, we have a group of people who oppose any irritation of the positions, as well as a lot of those who say in the congregation, "For God's sake, do us a favor and send us an account?" I think that's what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Complementary response, Minister Vizjak, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Thank you for your support. But I would just like to say that all incentives, all price increases, affect all households. So, here we have to be very careful, especially because of the circumstances as you state it, and it's accurate. This is because these prices vary greatly from congregation to congregation, and in some cases they charge even more than they should, and in some cases less than they should. And that is why we need to have a uniform approach here with regard to comparable bases that can also be defined, and this is just a little bit of a difficult professional work. And I believe it will be done. I would like to say that in order to avoid that some who already have these utilities above average would again go with some alignments up and those who are on average unreservedly affected. That's why we need a common ground. So, we must be aware that on one side we have a consumer, households that pay and have to pay a real, correct price, and I am sure that we will also get this methodology in a short time and thus release these remaining roles.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Minister Podobnik do you want? Thank you very much. So we can continue on the basis of the list of applicants. The next question will be asked by Ambassador Maria Possonec, the Minister for Environment and Space and the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that. My question is very simple: How or how can citizens of the Republic of Slovenia ensure the right to clean air and to an unpolluted environment in which they live? The 36-year-old Stockholm Declaration states that the human environment is as essential for its well-being as it is for the full enjoyment of fundamental human rights, including the right to life. In Slovenia too, environmental rights are increasingly recognized as fundamental human rights. The country therefore also provides for a healthy environment in accordance with the Constitution. Together with the congregations, she shares the authority to regulate the environment, as the Ombudsman says. Nevertheless, while reviving human rights, the Ministry of the Environment and Space is issuing useful authorisations for the operation of biotins, which is all, but not the case. Because in the middle of the village, without sewerage, all the manure is released into the stream, or first into the ditch, later into the stream. Minister Podobnik looked at this monster with his own eyes and was shocked, but not even with a little finger did he blink to stop it and to hurry people to help. And so 1,300 years old villages were destroyed, and the inhabitants will be driven out of there because they cannot live there. Now it's just a trial operation, but it stinks like hell. And should people now take houses on their backs like snails or what do you suggest? So, my simple question: Are human rights disrespected or distorted in terms of spatial regulation, the right to clean air, clean water and peace - so what should citizens do, especially when all of this has been caused by behaviour and through the help of state authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Minister, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u121	Thank you very much. A very similar question was raised by Ambassador Maria Possonec to both ministers a few months ago. The answer cannot be the same as it was then. Kind of doesn't hurt me if someone tells me I didn't blink with even the smallest finger. Everything that was possible and within the framework of the procedure in force under the current legislation, we have done in this case. Here we have the investor, we have the municipality, we have the administrative unit, we have the locals, we have our ministry, which is competent under the second stage, and the procedures have been carried out under the current procedure. I must make it clear that I can even quote the response of my colleague, Dr Virant, at the previous meeting, when it was said that the first process of issuing the building permit violated the right of some of the surrounding inhabitants to participate in the process. This is a very important element of the Aarhus Convention itself, which we will now incorporate into the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act, which will be at this particular meeting in the procedure. Therefore, our ministry has decided, under the second stage, and the administrative unit has decided to re-issue the building permit. And the administrative unit decided as it decided - it issued a building permit. Then I must say that it is under this procedure 7. 5. our ministry issued a decision where, in the renewed procedure, it has rejected a complaint by some countries against a building permit, and an administrative dispute is now possible against this decision. Whether it was triggered or not, I don't have that information. I am firmly convinced that, under the current procedure, we have acted properly and legally. On your question - that I will not be able to offer another answer to my colleague, Dr Virant - in what way the right to live in a healthy environment is exercised, I am convinced that the applicable environmental protection law, which regulates environmental protection as a fundamental condition for sustainable development, also lays down the fundamental principles of environmental protection, environmental protection measures, monitoring and environmental information. Citizens can participate already under Article 6 of the Environmental Protection Act in adopting policies, strategies, programmes, plans, plans within the community - especially within the community. If citizens felt or had an argument that some applicable decree on spatial regulatory conditions for the area, in this case the Municipality of Moravske Toplice, had failed to respect or have perverted human rights - that is, this decree was issued by the municipality, which was the basis for the decision of the administrative unit - then - because the municipal spatial act is a general act, they could be challenged in the constitutional and legal process of the Constitutional Court. This option also exists. With regard to the pollution of the environment itself in the device you are talking about that could work like this, but if one of the locals had an argument to claim that it is working for environmental pollution and this is caused by a permit to build or build a facility, then the affected citizens may also report such an installation to the local competent environmental inspection. This will determine in its procedure whether the emissions to air, water and soil from this facility comply with the building permit issued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word from the government representatives? No, no, no. Thank you. We can proceed. Can I help you? Mrs. Maria Possonec is your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u123	So, even though you knew what was going on, you allowed the facility to be completed and also to obtain a valid permit. Now they're asking for your permission to raise 40,000 chickens 20 meters away from the house where people live. Please, I don't live there and it's not my health, but it's people's health. I believe that since I have been asking the question of the Member of Parliament for the third time and absolutely without any success, I think that this institution of the question of the Member is also shameful. I will not say, and I will not ask that we discuss this, because I know we will not, because the coalition will not vote on it. But that picture there is the success of your ministry. I think you deserve one painting from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u125	Yes, Mrs Maria has now turned to me further. I'm not running away from any responsibility. In the framework of the building permit - we are not responsible for this. He's being betrayed by an administrative unit, not by our ministry. Here, however, you must also be correct as a Member and separate these levels. Then you must admit that the municipality in which this village is located and where this facility is set up has, within the framework of the existing spatial plans, created the possibility for such a facility to be set up. This is the theme for your congregation you live in. I have said that if anyone considers that this municipal spatial act is incompatible with certain other constitutional rights - even to a pure environment - then they should challenge the legality and constitutionality of this municipal decree, which was the basis for the issue within the administrative unit in this area. I will not accept responsibility for those areas for which I am not responsible. But for everything else, I accept everything. With regard to the new facility you are talking about, and you say that it will burden people's lives and so on, I am sure that the authorities that will decide on this, if I understand you, the application has been addressed to the Environment Agency will very conscientiously and very properly examine all options if such a facility can obtain, of course, this basic environmental consensus that the procedure within the administrative unit can continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mrs Zalokar Orazem's emissary will ask the Minister of Health, who is absent, but still, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u127	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues! I am truly sorry that Minister of Health Zofija Mazej Kukovic, who knew the contents of my question, has decided that it is more important to participate in the pre-referendum campaign in Slovenj Gradc than to answer this really urgent question. Everyone with impatience is expected to move the Neurological Clinic to new places where better and more effective work of doctors will be made possible and, of course, also to treat patients. However, over the last period, we have been repeatedly alerted and aware of the extremely difficult and worrying situation in one of the two sections of the clinic mentioned, namely, the Department of Vascular Neurology and Intensive Neurological Therapy. It is a department that provides for the entire Ljubljana region to deal with the acute stroke and is also a tertiary department at the level of the whole of Slovenia. After the last restructuring of the Neurological Clinic, the department stayed with only six doctors from the planned and promised nine, and only three doctors from the scheduled six are working on intensive therapy. This ensures, in the opinion of the profession, only barely acceptable and safe treatment of patients. Approximately 1300 patients are treated for more than 600,000 people and according to the incidence of this disease. It is provided by only a handful of doctors who work at the same time in clinics, diagnostics, research, and medical schools. According to the profession and the requirements of pathology, they are at least three times too small. This is not only because of the general lack of doctors but also because of inadequate distribution within the Neurological Clinic. There is a time of rest, at the moment only five doctors and a supervisor are working in this department. There is a reasonable suspicion that patients with a stroke are provided with adequate and professional care within extremely sensitive and important 30 hours after the stroke, since otherwise there is irreparable damage. That is why I am asking the Minister, and at the same time also calling for the immediate preparation of appropriate solutions, immediate, short-term and long-term, with the guidance of the Clinical Centre and Neurological Clinic, to ensure safe treatment of the stroke for almost a third of Slovenian residents. The condition is currently unsustainable, at the edge of fracture for doctors and patients. By what measures will this be done in concrete terms? Why is the planned and agreed relationship between doctors in both departments not realized and, according to the patient ratio, the ratio of bed capacity between the two sections is also adequately planned? In short, that's the problem. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and I hope that the Minister will respond sooner than at the next meeting, because this is what Slovenian patients require. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I'm also personally joining your hope. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, but my colleague just reminded me, does that mean you want to go to the next meeting or in writing before that?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u129	According to the Rules of Procedure, I know that this is possible only at the next meeting, but I expect from morals and ethics that this answer should be received earlier, as well as from the Slovenian public.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u130	It's a deal. Then we will consider this desire of yours to receive an answer in writing earlier. Thank you very much. My colleague Anton Kokalj will raise the question of a letter to the Minister for Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u131	Nice greetings to the ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My question is this: How do we share resources with the user 3.5.5.1 The Ministry of Culture under the main programme - 1.8.0.2 Maintain cultural heritage under headings 8.7.2.6 Implementation of the new law on the protection of cultural heritage; 6.4.1.7 Public institutions in the field of cultural heritage, 4.5.5.2 Cultural tolar - monuments, 6.4.1.9 Programmes and projects in the field of cultural heritage and within the framework of the main programme 1.8.0.3 Programmes in culture under heading 2.3.2.2 of Performing art - programmes and projects of NGOs - here would highlight 4.1.2 Transfers to non-profit organisations and institutions and to whom funds have already been allocated this year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Minister, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for asking. The question raised by the honourable Member concerns the issue of funding programmes. All appropriations in the budget lines of the Ministry of Culture shall be allocated on the basis of direct calls, calls and calls, in accordance with the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest for Culture and Under-Laws. The basic condition for co-financing cultural programmes and projects is already enshrined in the roof law, the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, and more detailed criteria are an integral part of the tender documentation. The budgetary resources shall be paid on the basis of the contract and following the submission of the substantive and financial report following the event. As regards the specific preservation of cultural heritage in item 1.8.0.2, it is item 2.0.0.5 Archive programmes and projects, then 8.7.2.6 Implementation of the new law on the protection of cultural heritage. This includes funds intended to cover the costs of the preparation of all sub-laws and other obligations arising from the new law. Item 6.4.1.7 Public institutions in the field of cultural heritage - here are funds for the operation of public institutions in the field of heritage: museums, galleries, archives, Public Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, Arboretum Volči Potok. Item 4.5.5.2 Cultural tolar - funds are intended to finance the renovation of monuments. 6.4.1.9 Programmes and projects in the field of cultural heritage; these include programmes and projects in the field of cultural heritage, which include national important support activities for the protection of cultural heritage. The programmes co-financed the organisation of content for training in museums, conservation and restoration, international activities and participation in international conferences, the promotion and popularisation of cultural heritage and the publication of publications in the field of cultural heritage. Then to raise visibility, create a positive attitude towards cultural heritage. Therefore, under this heading 6.4.1.9 it is co-financed through public calls and calls for programmes and projects of non-governmental organisations, public institutions and individuals not directly invited to submit the annual programme. As far as artistic programs are concerned, this is item 1.8.0.3 - this is about performing art. Paragraph 2.3.2.2 - these are transfers to non-profit organisations and institutions. The funds are intended to co-finance production, post-production and distribution of stage art, the main body of co-financed content on this item consists of premieres, repetitions, international hosting and festivals and recipients of funds from this item are top NGOs. With regard to exact indications - of course I have with me, I can read them - it is a long matter. So every year we have a financial report published on the website for the previous year showing all the programmes and projects financed from the budget of the Ministry of Culture in the past year, as well as all recipients of funds. However, the description of the planned activity under the budget lines is shown in the explanation of the State budget proposal adopted by the National Assembly. So for the past year, we have all the naming documentation, but for 2008 I can only say what are the overloads, i.e. the funds that are allocated within the individual items and the overloads that they are. Some procedures in this regard have not yet been completed. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u134	Thank you very much. And a supplementary question, my fellow Member, Anton Kokalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u135	Yes, I agree that it is certainly a somewhat time-consuming matter to read the entire list. However, let me ask you another question: Does it cover the annual budget in the field of the Ministry of Culture to co-finance or support the preservation of those fundamental elements that have preserved the Slovenian language of the century? Here I am referring to content such as the Brižin monuments, the texts of Slovenian Protestants and also the texts of spoken art. Here I would point out only the linguistic heritage, for example, the first preserved dramatic text in the Slovenian language - you probably know what this is about. I ask: Where could support this project be found in this budget, say, the Škopheloški Passion? In particular, this is not to be seen in the budget. You know that next year's performance is being prepared, preparations are already under way. As I said, it is also an extremely important milestone in Slovenian history, especially in the language field. It is also the biggest outdoor performance that can take place in Slovenia at any time. I would therefore ask: Which of these items could we find support for this project this year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u136	Thank you, too. Minister, please. The word is yours again.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u137	Thank you very much. So, with regard to the question of the preservation of the linguistic heritage, such as the old texts of Trubar or the Brižin Monuments, in a particular case with the Brižinski Monuments, I don't know, but I know that years ago everything was transcribed, published on the basis of large research, and this text was even aired in a sound form, a defence at the time. So for now, I don't see any problem or I don't know him. With regard to the rest of the heritage, with regard to Trubar's texts, I believe that they are now being published, the collection of Trubar's texts, in fact, individual writings, otherwise this is already relatively well covered. In any event, certain funds are also allocated this year for certain elections to its texts. With regard to the Škopheloški solion. Of course, I am aware of this, I think that even years ago, when there was one performance, the Ministry of Culture, of course, co-financed this. This, however, is more of a part of the Public Fund for Cultural Activities, from which it is assisted. However, I myself agree that this needs to be properly supported. The Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage now allows the Škopheloški solion to receive the correct weight and placement as a monument to an unfathomable heritage. However, since the law entered into force on 1 March 2008, the resources available for this item will only be available in the coming financial year. However, I believe that every minister will support this when he gets it, at least to a certain extent, that this programme will run in 2008. For the time being, no item provides for these funds. We are therefore waiting for him to be placed in the so-called intangible cultural heritage and, of course, get the Škopheloški solion appropriate and justifiable protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mrs Breda Pečan will ask her question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank Minister Jarc on behalf of the isolated, Cypriot and pirated fishermen, for his thanks are certainly due to the fact that they will also receive one-off aid from the decline in sea fishing this year and last year. Otherwise, the reasons are slightly different, but we know that the main reason is the ecological fishing zone of the Republic of Croatia. But at that time, I also learned about one problem that arises with the handover of farmers' farms who want to hand over their farm to their, usually, children, but also to someone else, on the basis of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which gives the possibility to a farmer who, of course, had been previously insured to retire when he gives the farm to a successor and this condition of surrender or surrendering the farm is even postponed until 2014. It is said that this condition can be postponed slightly, allowing some or some of the problems that arise from it to be resolved. Another very favourable measure is measure 113 of the Rural Development Programme from 2007 to 2013, which provides for support for early retirement of farmers in such a way that when they hand over the farm to a younger generation or to another acquirer, they can even receive financial assistance in the form of an annual pension of EUR 5,000 and a variable part depending on the size of the farm transferred. However, the condition is that the farmer is over 57 years of age and pension-disability insurance. However, both documents ignore a fact that may be specific to Slovenia. This is because in Slovenia there are quite a number of large farms, where farmers process land on lease, owned by the country or in the management of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which can place a farm on the basis of the Fund Act on the basis of a priority scale. [[End warning sign]] , in no case shall there be a priority beneficiary for the continuation of the lease of children or a descendant of a farmer. I'm curious here, Mr. Minister: Are you familiar with these problems? And if that's your problem [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Minister, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for asking, too. A few facts first. We are aware that in Slovenia there are quite a few farms, which, as you said, because of their specificity, have in the lease of land and sometimes forests from the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. We are also aware that the problem in Slovenia is the structure of farms, both in size and in age lines, and in this respect we are actually implementing measures, as you mentioned. If only we had mentioned this year's 28 applications for early retirement and 355 applications for young farmers, which can sometimes be combined - these two measures. The fact is that in order to obtain an income in the form of a pension for people wishing to retire under this measure, it is a condition for the ownership of a farm from a farmer who meets the conditions, which is in line with the European acquis, and I do not think that we have any special possibilities here. I've been looking into the Fund about this problem. They say that, in practice, heirs, if they are interested and individually turned to them, usually always get the opportunity to continue to rent. However, I was also reminded that there is an article in the Agricultural Lands Act, which actually makes this possible, Article 29, which states that under this Act, it can be said, the Agricultural Lands Act, the lessee, is, in this case, allowed to change the lease contract if a new tenant enters instead of the tenant. And that can be, I quote from this article, also the descendant of the current tenant. What they say on the Fund is that, taking into account all the criteria set out in this Article, it should be sufficient - and of course, if people turn to the Fund - that they should not have such problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Ambassador Pecan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u143	Thank you. I'd like to ask you the following questions. So, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests has in management, I will say, because it is owned by our country, very many agricultural land that are in complexes. It would be right that those lands that are in complexes and are also in leased complexes and serve some larger farms have been declared a protected farm. I am convinced that one of the methods in which agricultural land owned by a country can be protected is, rather than systematic, but still quite present - fragmentation, by giving it to very different small-scale tenants, so that they can actually achieve that, sooner or later, they can improve the structure of the size of farms by just giving up agricultural land in larger complexes of one farm family - after one farm family. Here I can say, with us in Istria there are only a few hundred hectares of agricultural land in Isola, which could form protected farms from them, but no one in the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests thinks in this way. I think it's a huge damage to the country and also to agricultural land, which is constantly under pressure from various tenants who want to have some there. [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Farms - in the discount box, it is quite right to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u145	Thanks for the extra question. So the issue of protected farms is, of course, defined in specific legislation. I think that was a question at one of the previous meetings. I can say with regard to the Fund's policy that the Fund has recently been purchasing, including forests, on the basis of its work programme, and essentially on the basis of the programmes it has, it wants to contribute to the greater economy of the sector as such. I think that it takes into account, on the one hand, the agreements already reached and, as in this case, as we have discussed before, also the actual relations between families and, on the other hand, the interests of individual companies. I believe that in some specific cases there may also be a deviation from these policies or these orientations. As I have already said, if, in fact, a case in a specific area, I propose that, in fact, that this particular treatment be carried out in the Fund and that it is actually seen where the problem is. It is difficult to give one general answer to a specific problem in a specific area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr Sašo Pece will ask the Minister of Economy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u147	Thank you very much for the word and, above all, thank you very much for the change in leadership. I would like to point out the Maribor-based company Meltal, one of the companies that has been criminalised during the current year in the sense of being led by criminals who are not healthy for our country. This was a basic message to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and this was the basic message that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia transmitted to the Slovenian public. But let me put out the broader, much more human aspect from this place. For 28 years, the company has been working in Maribor, the area and for the last 10 years and several years on the European market. They have never had problems under anyone; not during the "SFRY-to" period of the morning, that is, Yugoslavia, not in the early period of transition, capitalism, as you like to call the previous governments, but errors, criminalisation of society, have emerged now, in the current year, in the year of pre-election, when the so-called sinning goat is needed, created by the ruling policy in the framework of this year. I would like to point out the orientation of this company, employ more than 87 regular employees and over 100 companies or 100 employees in connection with contracts. Their focus on the domestic market gives business to other Styrian companies, namely Talum Inpol, Maribor foundry and their orientation in the 1970s also abroad. Not to mention the state revenues that are generated and, last but not least, the municipal revenues. At the end of February, when the so-called government election campaign was launched, the said company was criminalised by the Government. For 14 days, like any current story, the company and its director, Mr Rado Snezič, filled newspapers in negative form, asking what he allowed, for how much he cheated the country. To this day, none of his claims have been proved or even his transparency procedures have been severely reduced or nearly destroyed. What does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Mr Minister do, I ask you, because you are in charge of a healthy economy - in a specific case, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia makes all their business partners receive an investigation [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that their employees have to report daily on criminal investigations or public authorities. [[...]] Their potential partners are opting for negative further cooperation and existing potential partners are also forced to do the same. Mr. Minister of Economy, I ask you: Is this really the strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which on the one hand is a whale with a success story, is this really the story that is trying to criminalize every good business unless the SDS agree? Thanks for the first part.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Dear President! See, I was a Member in this reference or in the previous reference, and I also know the Rules of Procedure a little bit, Mr Peče announced an oral question, which reads: "Minister of the Economy, I ask why in the field of tax policy there is political repression on companies in northern Slovenia and how is the sale of state property in this region taking place?" This was a question, and therefore I said that, in accordance with Article 40, paragraph 1, Members could ask the Minister questions in his field of work. Neither one nor the other has a field of work and neither has anything to do with what the Member has asked, but I will be happy to answer it. Slovenia and myself, of course, as Minister, want successful companies. I want companies that create good working conditions for people who also create jobs that develop and thus strengthen the well-being of the Republic of Slovenia. This is something that is in the interest of the government, probably in the interest of all Slovenes and Slovenes. Of course, this principled interest, which I share with many economists, must not prevent or limit supervisory institutions from also dealing with certain "deviations". This does not mean that anyone has anything against the business of any company, but at least the government. The government is not involved in the business of this particular economic service. It does not deal with any irregularities in this society. In short, it's not the government's jurisdiction. This is the responsibility of the institutions responsible for the control of legality. Either the police, or any other inspection, tax, possibly the Office for the Protection of Competition, the Securities Market Agency or anyone else. So, in the past, unfortunately, we have often been faced with a lack of this very important pillar of the rule of law. So it's a pillar of corporate control. I also share the view that this monitoring needs to be carried out effectively, but at the same time it must not cause business damage or any other business difficulties. Therefore, there should also be effective and possible irregularities to sanction quickly and effectively. I strongly and most strongly deny that as Minister of Economy, I would have anything, i.e. an insight, the power of direction or any other right in either directing these authorities to control or influencing their decisions. I have repeatedly made public only that there is, of course, control and judicial protection, an important system of functioning of the rule of law in addition to the relevant laws. So it must all work out as a whole, that business is, and this is said to be legal certainty in the country. Nothing more than that is in the interest of the Government and I do not know, indeed, the honourable Member from where you are accused of criminalising the activities of any company or undertaking in the investigation of this or that supervisory institution, which is mainly responsible for professionally independent, but should also work effectively in monitoring.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u150	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr Minister, the goldfish is the one that has a three-second memory, and the citizens are not goldfish, and I believe that most of the citizens remember that we were just in the National Assembly at the so-called anti-Tacuna meeting, and you were one of the main economic actors. And at the time, no one wondered what I had as a minister with some kind of economic society. But that's because it's a good thing for you. And secondly, to say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has never criminalized companies in a direct form, let us remember 'clean shovels', we remember such smaller entrepreneurs, but these smaller entrepreneurs, you know, are the generators of the development of the region. And it hurts me so much more, of course, if this is happening in the city of Maribor, where you destroy economic operators with this selective economic policy. When you talk about deviation, you know, it's precisely the deviation of parliamentaryism that economic operators for whom and when it suits you, they are criticized, they are questioned, in other words - they are criminalized, but when it doesn't suit you, you raise your hands and say - it's in someone else's domain. And let me put it to the end, given that you said that I had asked a different question of the mission -- that's not true. I am talking about political pressure on economic operators and in the second part on fiscal policy. It was you who wanted me not to ask this question in writing this morning, and then today, during my procedural proposal, you changed your mind. However, I would like to read an opinion that comes from a judicial expert on the company in question. On the basis of everything that is written down; this is enough; it is my view that the tax authority in this Decision, the DT and the figure, has not identified all the facts that would have been necessary for the adoption of a legal and correct decision, taking into account, with equal care, the facts which would have been in favour of the undertaking under review and, consequently, Meltal d.o.o. [[..]] Mr Minister, I say once again, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia selectively destroys individual economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u152	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u153	Look, one more time. Of course, I would be happy to answer questions about what the Tax Administration is doing, questions related to fiscal policy, as you mentioned, if I were responsible. I didn't. I'm the Minister of Economy, not the Minister of Finance. And in accordance with Rule 240 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 1, I can answer questions from my field of work, not from another field of work. However, once again - The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not criminalised any business, since usually criminal individuals in the company are responsible. And if it is logical and normal for a Member not to hear from the Government when asked by Members and to turn it into a pre-election story like that, I must say it is not so. The meeting of the National Assembly a few weeks ago was convened on the initiative of Members, not on the initiative of the Government. And this is where we discussed the things you wanted. And it is right that we have debated, because certain "deviations" in this country, especially "deviations", when some individuals who come to the company with a suitcase leave with a billion and a half euros in a few years. This isn't a normal occurrence. And it is right that we debate this, and it is right that we also find appropriate measures to sanction this and that this is no longer repeated. And this was the purpose of the meeting of the National Assembly, and this was the purpose of the conclusions, and I welcome them. However, I cannot understand where you find the information that the Ministry of the Economy or myself personally, because the question addressed to me is a question addressed, however I affect the Tax Administration, which is not even in the working circle of our Ministry. Indeed, you have just read this from some expert opinion on the operation of certain donors somewhere, and of course you are asking me, not the competent minister in the field of finance. That is why I have also informed you in writing that from the announcement of the question of the Member, once again, "I am asking why, in the field of tax policy, there is a political repression against companies in northern Slovenia" and so on, I am not, the honourable Member, responsible for tax policy. And it would be unfair of me, unfair to answer from this area to you in the National Assembly, because that would not be in accordance with Rule 240 of the Rules of Procedure. And that's what I warned you about, not that I didn't want to answer, not at all. The question of correspondence was not raised in accordance with the Rules of Procedure because you did not ask me about things in my field of work. And I'm not avoiding any questions. And once again, I firmly deny that anyone in the government is criminalizing any kind of business. We are pleased with successful societies, but we want them to operate in accordance with the law, economically and also in the interests of people and employees.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u154	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Obviously, given that we have not to say you, maybe I, the problems with writing or you with understanding problems, but I think that is clear from the fact that you are quoting only the first part of the question. About the part that doesn't suit you, you say, "Well, go on." So that present Members and perhaps those who look at us cannot know. But, you know, it's not really a basic problem for you to say, "No, no, it's not mine, it's from another minister." You are an integral part of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Executive Branch of the Authority, Mr Minister. And my procedural proposal is to hold a debate in the National Assembly on this, in particular on the transposition of the individual essential elements of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And no, I told you on purpose, because I know you don't know, I asked you a fiscal question. Otherwise, it is sad that the Minister of Economy does not know the basic financial burdens arising from the tax on Slovenian companies. I would like to point out, you know, Meltal d.o.o., a limited liability company, its definition is in the Economics Act. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u156	Mr. Pece, please, no argument, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u157	Its definition is in the Act on Economic Companies, whose sole and subsidiary is the Ministry of Economy. And guess who runs the Ministry of the Economy. You! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u158	On the proposal by Mr Pečet to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy to his question, the State Assembly will decide in the context of tomorrow's vote on Tuesday, 17 June 2008. The next question will be posed by the Magi. Majda Potratam, Minister for Education and Sport, who is absent. Do you want to ask a question anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u159	I would like to ask Dr. Milan Zver an oral question to the absent Minister for Education and Sport. And since he usually complains, as well as any other minister, that he does not understand the question sent, I will read it at the beginning to make it clear enough: Has the Ministry of Education and Sport prepared an analysis of the human resources movements and needs in public education institutions and institutions with concessions for the next period? Also: With what concrete measures do you intend to increase employment opportunities and job security, especially for young and older people? Why am I asking this other question? Because the minister said he didn't understand what I meant by that question. However, I think precisely that the movement of employees in education is moving in the direction when the job becomes an indefinite period of predominant employment, in particular with the first job seekers. And because of the highly educated staff, this government has set up the task of creating value-added jobs, it is probably interesting to see how the personnel picture appears. In fact, the teacher’s primary school teachers are the most concerned. For 2007, 11,523 jobs were for an indefinite period of time and 5,524 for a fixed period of time. Nearly half of primary school employment is for a certain period of time, which means that they have either a contract concluded or 12 months if they are very lucky from September to September, but most often they have a working relationship between September and July, while they are deprived of all employee rights during summer holidays. Nor is it about the exercise of rights under the Labour Relations Act, because teachers and teachers usually have to look for work in different schools, so it is not a matter of repetition. Every job has to be allowed by the Ministry of Education. So there are a lot of problems. And since the Ministry of Education takes a very large right to determine whether a school can hire a new person or not, this is a question for the Ministry on the ground. I also ask, on behalf of those rural schools, demographically endangered areas where 21 children will have to be in the combined section of the first and second classes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u160	Thank you. You will receive an answer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. My colleague, Janko Weber, will ask the Minister of Transport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u161	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to the Minister of Transport, whom I am asking the next question. In the first half of 2007, Slovenian railways with freight transport generated EUR 3 million of net profit. In the first half of 2007, passenger transport recorded 1.2 million euros in losses. If we are trying to make this comparison for 2008, according to the data available, we find that the system of Slovenian Railways in the first quarter of 2008 created 2.7 million euros in freight losses and 2.86 million euros in passenger transport, and if we are also somehow aware that the entry into the Slovenian track is also a foreign operator, it is an Austrian operator, then we can expect that a large share of freight traffic will also be attempted by a foreign operator. With the fact that Slovenian railways are already extremely indebted, somewhere in the amount of about 300 million euros, we can talk about the fact that, of course, before Slovenia, there is an extremely difficult financial supply in the coming period, how to fix Slovenian railways and, in fact, how to enable the successful development of the economy and also passenger transport in Slovenia. Therefore, Mr Minister, I ask you: How will Slovenian railways face the growing loss of both passenger and freight transport, and do Slovenian railways prepare for the increasingly aggressive competition of freight transport, which comes under European legislation also on Slovenian soil? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Minister Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Thank you very much too, Mr Member, for your question. So, I will answer your question, of course, on the basis of the information provided to me by the President of the Slovenian Railway Administration. In addition to the measures which form an integral part of the 2008 business plan and which are being continuously implemented, they were prepared on the basis of the results achieved in the first quarter and additional short-term measures are already being implemented which will have an impact on improvements in freight and passenger traffic in 2008. We're talking about an action programme to get new cargo. This programme, of course, contains a programme by type of transport and by product groups and customers on the basis of which the current revenue shortfalls and planned annual transport revenues will be replaced. The activities envisaged in the business plan will be carried out. Therefore, ensuring longer-term cooperation with contracting authorities, changing payment conditions and redirecting cash flows to Slovenian railways, concluding direct contracts with end-users. Transport revenues will be increased by introducing new services, here I am referring to additional direct freight trains. In the classic mode of transport, the link Ljubljana-Niš was established, new train connections were offered to users in combined transport, or there was an increased train frequency of 6 trains per week on the route of Luka Koper-Zilina, which is in Slovakia, for the purposes of the Kia factory. A new business was acquired on the route of Luka Koper-Vratimo, which is in the Czech Republic, for the purposes of the Hyundai factory. New goods were also obtained from Germany for Turkey and vice versa. These transports have so far taken place through Hungarian railways. On the Coeln, Istanbul and vice versa. In April this year, Slovenian Railways, in cooperation with the operator Adria Komi, introduced a new direct container train that successfully connects Ljubljana and Istanbul. Longer term measures are the subject of a strategic plan of the Slovenian Railways, which will cover the period until 2015, which is in the final coordination phase. The proposed guidelines and activities to develop capacity in the area of marketing of services, the development of new business models and services and the organisation for accelerated growth in both freight and passenger transport are an essential component. Through the implementation of development projects in these areas, there will be fundamental strategic objectives, including stable income growth and increased profitability. With regard to the strategic plan, I am also aware that it is necessary to implement and penetrate foreign markets and achieve the sales objectives of freight and passenger transport to implement the programme of reconstruction and new construction of railways in the direction of V. and X. Pan-European Corridor in the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the more aggressive performance of Slovenian Railways in foreign markets and the arrival of foreign carriers on our infrastructure, Slovenian Railways have also focused on this new type of competition over the past two years and have taken quite a few steps to prepare for such competition. Slovenian railways have already begun the process of obtaining a safety certificate for the operation of transport in Austria and Italy, interviews with representatives of the Austrian Ministry of Transport and the Italian Infrastructure Manager. They are currently in the process of collecting documentation, the role in Austria will be submitted in the coming month. We expect that Slovenian railways will obtain a certificate in Austria at the beginning of next year and in Italy in the first half of 2009. The procedures and conditions for acquisition for Italy are longer and more substantively difficult. So much for a start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Comrade Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u165	Thank you. I would like to ask a further question so that we can further hear what the President of the Slovenian Railway Administration has written to the Minister. It is a fact that, in accordance with the European Union Directive, Slovenia must also release its railway infrastructure for foreign operators. The fact is that Slovenian railways are paying for rail infrastructure in 2007 at EUR 1.5 million, although this amount should be EUR 9 million and something similar is planned for 2008. Does this mean that foreign operators will have the same benefits as Slovenian railways, i.e. they will pay only 1.5 million euros for our track, instead of 8 million euros? And how Slovenian railways are prepared for this purpose, so that they will be competitive under conditions when they have to pay for the proper use of the tracks, so that we can also maintain them and thus ensure safe access and transport for all operators, not just ours. In fact, the fact is that maintenance in Slovenian railways is already extremely critical today, because it is the load of the track from the direction of Luka Koper that the injuries appear daily. So if there is no proper use, how will we maintain the track, what will actually be the picture of Slovenian railways when a foreign operator starts taking us? That was my second part of the question to which there was no answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Minister, will you grant the wish of Comrade Vebra? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u167	Thank you very much. So, you yourself have rightly found that foreign operators will certainly be driving on our rail tracks in a short time, and I see no reason why there would be any difference between our railways and foreign operators in the usages themselves. Well, of course there won't be a difference here. I estimate that this will be an additional pressure on our Slovenian railways, so that they will also pay much more attention to the field of marketing than they have dedicated to it so far. So that I assess the matter positively, and I hope it will bear fruit. But what happened in the first quarter will have to be made up for in the rest of the year. The business plan is clear and the business plan foresees that Slovenian railways must be positive by the end of this year or must operate with profits.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Colleague Weber, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u169	Thanks again for saying that. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly vote to hold a debate on the Minister's response to my question. Because it is a fact that Slovenian railways are already happy to explain how they make profits and how they are not bad, and yet we need to know that there is more than 300 million Euros in debt to a company that generates profits mainly because it does not pay the utility for the use of railway infrastructure. And if the company is not able to pay the same benefits as a foreign operator, then in Slovenia we will subsidize foreign operators to drive on our routes, while at the same time we will have to maintain and finance our tracks from the budget, so that we can meet the security conditions that will certainly be expected and demanded by all operators on our railway network. So it is a very serious question whether in Slovenia we are actually going to subsidise foreign operators to practically free vehicles on our routes, but we will maintain them from public funds, or whether we will have a serious Slovenian operator who will also be able to deal with others, and we will be able to collect enough funds on the basis of the traffic done, both freight and passenger, to even repay the leased credits of Slovenian railways. This seems to me to be one of the key questions regarding the next development of this extremely important infrastructure concept in Slovenia. And I think the National Assembly should really get a lot more data and information on how it will look at the development of Slovenian railways in Slovenia in the future. So, I propose that the President vote on this issue by the National Assembly and hold a debate on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u170	It's a deal. We will also vote on your proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will raise a question for the Minister of the Interior. Comrade Gulic, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u171	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Minister Dragutin Mate! My question was very simple, and I will repeat it as it is written: On the basis of whose and what information is based on your thanks for the impact of the new road safety law? The emphasis is primarily on your praise. 11. 6. 2008 you had a press conference where you said a number of things that were also a little contradictory. In particular, that security depends on the individual participant and then towards the end that the enforcement of the law was the one that so increased security that May 2008 was the minimum number of traffic accidents. This is the question, if it is true, a similar result was made in 2005. So far, you don't know, because the consequences of the dead can't be accounted for. So, you were in a really, really hurry. I'm sure it doesn't hold. I am also more interested in what is happening in parallel. In view of the fact that this will not happen, at the press conference you said, "With amendments to the law we wanted to achieve results that would yield tangible and effective results for a shorter period of time." Then what? That's a bigger question. This shorter period of time actually means delay. The other thing is that you boasted about things that a normal person would not boast about, a normal institution in a democratic country. With closed patients. You've been hunting patients on the road. People who sit behind a steering wheel with more than 1.1 are patients and cannot be separated by averting methods. During Stalinism, drunkards were beaten to get rid of them. It wasn't any of this. They were just more thirsty. That's what they report. A million Euros of fines recovered. That's not something to brag about either. It's a budget charge. You say this was not your intention, but it certainly is not an undesirable side effect. However, I would like to hear more about those data, especially how you compared them, even for a period of five years ago, of course the matter is comparable. I'm sure it's not enough since last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u172	Thank you, too. Minister Dragutin Mate, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you so much for asking. First of all, I didn't see Mr Gulic at the press conference, but he has an extraordinary gift to interpret what was going on there. The press conference lasted more than an hour and I am not sure that everything has been written down at this press conference. Nevertheless, a few very clear things need to be said. When we presented the Road Traffic Safety Act in this Parliament, together with colleague Žerjavo, and we talked about why we advocated certain starting points, the main guide was to achieve effects that would reduce the number of dead on Slovenian roads. We also made it very clear that the conceptual law must be substantially changed and that preparations have already begun. Now I can say that preparations are already under way for a new law, which will be completely different in design and which will also be able to achieve effects in the long term, not only by law, but also by some other receptions, and the Government has also taken certain measures to work preventively in order to be as few dead, damaged and severely injured as possible on Slovenian roads. The statistics we have are, of course, relatively simple. The answer is simple where we get it. The statistics are from the police. It has been joined together all the years, decades ago, with very clear and accurate daily statistics of how many traffic accidents have happened, how much with material damage, how much with physical injury, how much more serious the wounded, the dead. And this statistics hold for decades. So far, I have never heard of the honourable Member to be disturbed by this statistics and how it is managed. However, if we go back to the statistics, I must first say that the law and questions that have arisen around the law and why this press conference has even occurred are related to the issue of journalists, to public questions. [[...]] The public wanted to know whether or not the law had any effect or whether anything was going on in this area. That is why Minister Žerjav and I decided to make a press conference after a certain period of validity of the law and to present those data that stand at 100% and are recorded in all statistics in the same way as this statistics have been implemented for decades and things are very simple. We have distributed to all journalists, and this has not been published on the website, all indicators since 2002. For a longer period of time, we didn't want to put too much pressure on them. But there is no problem, we can see very clearly that the number of dead in this year has been the lowest since 2002. If we look at the months of May because exactly the same statistics are comparable, we can see that the number of accidents compared to last year, the previous three years had about the same number of accidents by about 50, 100 differences, last year was 2,800 and some after accidents. There were 1,342 traffic accidents on Slovenian roads in the same period this year. So this is more than half the smaller number of traffic accidents, which is of course the data that is absolutely true. The number of deaths, the result in the same month as after the entry into force of the law in 2005, entered into force in 2004 by the new law of ZVCP with worse penalties and had some effects, even better results this month. Even fewer people died on Slovenian roads than in May 2005. Not to talk about the other years. Fifteen people died. It was worth having a marriage that saved one tragedy in our families. Even better data are essentially reflecting the state of traffic accidents and the relationship between these are serious injuries. Last year we had 137 injured, severely injured in May, this year we had 74 of them, and it was easier to get injured last year, 1,533, this year's 644. This is a drastic reduction, and I hope that these trends will, of course, be sustained. Of course, the problem, which is, and in part, I can agree with you, is that some of the people we keep because they drank too much alcohol, that they are also patients and that they need to be treated. But not everything. A lot of these people drink on weekends. Very interesting. For weekends in Slovenia, since the law is valid for an average of 100 to 112 people. And during the week, every day there's a number there from 15 to a maximum of 30-36. That's real data. These are real data, numbers on the day of the arrest. With each one we have withdrawn from the road, we have potentially reduced the number of traffic accidents. In fact, a third of traffic accidents are caused by drivers with more than 1.1 promyls in their blood. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u174	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applications. Comrade Gulic, supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u175	Everything I asked you, I got from the public media and, above all, from your website, the website of the Ministry of the Interior, so the resources are clear. I don't mind statistics, I'm more disturbed by interpretation, but when it comes to things that are too simplified. Indeed, in 2005 we had a similar result and a similar weather as in this year, and even then, as I recall, you spoke out or as a criterion for why this happened only in May, you spoke out in time. But it is not essential, it is essential that you, at the same time, also had some other responses in the public, it says, responded, as far as I know the Auto motto of the Association of Slovenia, quite critical of this use of statistics, and also some individuals. About who or not the patient, I mean, I'm not competent to argue with you, nor you, to be with me, but it's just that it's known that those who are marked drunk for the weekend also belong in the category of those who can't resist this charm and just wait for the weekend. I would like to know: what will you draw from the organization which Slovenia has now joined CIECA. We have already discussed licenses for drivers in the context of the questions sent, or are there, of course, such things that confirm the correctness of these decisions or not? That would be an additional question. It is connected to this international association for the issue of driving licences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u176	Thank you, too. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is only one side of how we can influence drivers and their behavior. It is essential that all in society find that driving and drinking alcohol are incompatible, that is unacceptable. Unfortunately, too many people here think it's compatible and it tolerates it. And that's why I was talking at that press conference about inviting all the people, all the citizens, not to ride with those who are guilty, and that even the guests don't pour alcohol to those who already show signs of guilt, whether they're sick or not and you're right, not you, not me, that we're not competent to discuss it. Not here, not anywhere else, because we have no knowledge of this area. However, it is unacceptable, even if someone is sick or is dependent on alcohol, that such a person is driving a vehicle. It is not acceptable, unfortunately, however you turn, it is unacceptable, socially unacceptable. People die on the roads because of people like that, and that's unacceptable to me. And I hope that this will become completely unacceptable in society as well. During the month, 1344 people were detained in the territory of Slovenia until they were sobered, which is a horrendous figure. During this time we seized more than 103 motor vehicles at this time. It's an incredible number, by not being able to capture him for one offense, it's the worst offenses. If someone drives more than 30 an hour in a settlement, more than 40 an hour from the allowed speed outside the settlement and more than 50 an hour faster on the highway and has to commit two such offences within two years to be legal, only for the third time can we take his vehicle. And we seized 103 vehicles in May. That's terrible what's going on on the roads. And with the marriage, we can somehow begin to calm down. And you can see the results. Traffic has also begun to calm down in part, including this. But it is clear, and you are right, much more needs to be done, you need to make safe driving ranges, everywhere in Slovenia, I agree with you, absolutely this must be done. Some other steps must also be taken. Helping young drivers to learn to drive better, to acquire the skills and skills they need, and it is likely that in Slovenia, some motorists will be able to survive their desire to ride their engines, such as on the Tomb range, where they can also contribute by such measures so that they do not have wild driving or too fast driving by various means of transport on our roads. And at the end of the day, infrastructure must be better. You're right. It's all part of the policy. And we have to work in this direction at all levels. And that's why I called on this press conference to let us all look at ourselves and act in such a way as to prevent the deaths on the roads. And every life we've saved is important. Every single life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u178	Thank you very much. The following question will be raised by Member Rudolf Petan, the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Collective contracts for individual public sector activities were signed days ago. The signature was, of course, carried out by representatives of the Government and trade unions of individual areas in the public sector. This is supposed to somehow bring about a new salary system which is supposed to systematically regulate the salaries of employees in the public sector. This has certainly been a great success for both sides, both for the government and for trade unions. And according to assurances, public sector employees are expected to receive salaries under the new regime in September. In the public opinion, there were doubts from individual representatives of cultural institutions, which is an area where this new pay system would reflect the most positive fact that pay leave in institutions would not be possible to settle after a new one in September. That's why I'm asking the Minister of Public Administration, Dr. Virant: What does the new pay system really mean? And: What is provided for in the adopted and signed documents concerning the entry into force of the new public sector payroll system? And of course in this regard: What obligations do individual institutions have? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Minister Virant has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. True, after six very hard years, we have reached a new wage system in the public sector. The pay system, which, unlike the previous system, will therefore bring order to the public sector, which will be transparent, because it will not be based on 'addictology', but will value a job with a basic salary that will be fairer than before because it will eliminate a number of wage imbalances; and it is true that, as you have found, the highest number of employees in culture will be acquired, many of them will be employed in health, especially in health care, in social protection and other activities, and in particular, which is agreed which represents the result of the social partnership between all representative public sector unions on the one hand and the Government on the other. So, collective contracts for occupations have been signed by all representative public sector unions, but one of the 26 has not signed a general collective agreement, but this does not change because this is the same union, I am talking about SWIZ, and has signed a collective agreement of its activities that implements general collective agreements. It is indeed a major success of the social partnership. This conclusion of the wage reform also brings social peace to the public sector, allowing us to no longer deal with wages in the next term, or to deal in a significantly different way, but in the context of the annual negotiations on the general harmonisation of public sector wages in terms of inflation and productivity, given economic growth, not more with the demands of individual groups after the increase compared to others. That's good. So instead, in the next term, we will be able to deal with quality in the public sector, especially in those segments that this movement for higher quality has not yet achieved, I am thinking mainly of health care, or it has barely beleaguered them and rationalisation. So how to save as much money as possible so that we can get more services for the same money, or that we can save so much money in the public sector that we can continue to reduce taxes, which is also an integral part of our plan, our agenda for the future. The new pay system is anchored by the signing of the general collective contract for the public sector and the signing of 13 collective agreements for public sector activities and professions, last Wednesday, 11 June 2008. It is stated in all collective agreements that the first salaries will be paid after a new payment in September, with a settlement from 1 May onwards. Therefore, the public servants are subject to new salaries from 1 May, and they will be charged from 1 May onwards in September. The responsibility for this is vested in the management of public institutions. Three months ago, good managers started preparing this process some month, two or three years ago, when collective agreements were more or less negotiated and publicly known, so no one can say that the matter surprised him. True, some did not believe that we would succeed in the end. Just a month ago, some talked about the spread of the wage system in the public sector, that everything was falling apart, that everything was falling apart. There has been a great deal of news from the opposition that we have lost control of the public sector's salaries. However, the one counting on it not to succeed has apparently been spared. It has succeeded, and now it will have to be done by all budgetary users, all public institutions, all public sector institutions, because the employees are entitled to it. They can challenge this, they can challenge the new salaries in September with a settlement from 1 May onward. Time's enough. I allow that in some individual case, for example, it might be stuck because of the lack of coordination between the management and the union on the new system of job creation, for example, because the new pay system does not only bring new wages, but it also introduces order in the field of jobs, which it has so far, for example, in health care. Well, it's gonna be a lot of work. Because of this, many may not have a vacation this year, or they will be able to afford it only after they have prepared everything they need for the September payment. I am thinking mainly of human resources services and accounting services; it will be necessary to roll up your sleeves and spit into your hands. Half an hour ago, I spoke to the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, who leads more people than the director of Cankarje's home, who "jamra", so he won't be able to implement the new system, and he said we'll do it. We're gonna do it, we're gonna roll up our sleeves, we're gonna do our best, and we're gonna do it. But those who may not have the will or desire to do so will take responsibility. Employees have the right to receive new salaries in September.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Comrade Rudolf Petan, an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. So, okay, the employees are also entitled to the May-to-May account. But in the event that, as the media has pointed out, they will not be given leave in the individual public sector, what does this mean now? Will they, I don't know, be able to sue - who are they going to sue? The office or the state? Because it doesn't matter if it comes with interest after or without interest, because it's important to the employees. That's what I'd like an answer to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Minister Virant, the word is yours again.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u185	Thank you. [[...]] [[The microphone's not working.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u186	Minister Virant, try the microphone next door.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u187	Bo. Therefore, the answer to this question is crystal clear: those who do not get what is theirs under collective agreements may sue the public institution, and the direct responsibility for this lies with the management of the public institution. So, definitely, after the signed collective agreements, which have already been published in the Official Journal, public servants have the right from September to new salaries and thus to eliminate the first quarter of the difference between the translated salary and the targeted salary, that is to say, a quarter of the elimination of wage imbalances; I am talking about those, of course, who have a higher salary in the new system, and in culture this applies practically to all. Speaking of which, I might just point out that we have been particularly careful to ensure that the new payment system is financially sustainable. The source of funding for the elimination of wage imbalances is, above all, the denial of the public sector of some normal wage growth since 2002 onwards. In recent years, all of us in the public sector have renounced even the normal alignment of wages with inflation and have also made sure that the introduction of the new system is macroeconomicly sustainable, it is said that it will not give rise to additional pressure on inflation. This is mainly achieved through a reasonable agreement with the unions that increases are paid in four meals and not all at the same time, because the general 13% increase in wages this year could jeopardise macroeconomic balance. Thus, these increases are foreseen for 1 September, with a calculation from 1 May of this year, then 1 March of the following year, 1 September of the following year and 1 March 2010. With the fuse that this final payment may also be made, this last increase will be reversed at the end of 2010, if there is otherwise a risk of macroeconomic imbalances. So, I understand the compromise, I understand the conclusion. A story where there's no absolute winner. No union is so satisfied that it would jump to the ceiling, which of course means that we are winners, that the result is balanced and that we are all winners in the end.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of a list of applicants. My colleague, Samo Bevk, will ask the question of the Member State or should ask the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Minister of Culture. The Minister is absent, and the Minister of Culture is here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u189	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. A well-respected choir. Minister, Mrs Mojco Kucler Dolinar and Minister Vasko Simoniti ask: What will they do to solve the very uncertain fate of the Botanical Garden in Ljubljana, which is just before closing the door for visitors and ending the operation. Uncertainly, it is the financing of our oldest higher education institution, which will celebrate the two hundredth anniversary of its operation in 2010. Unregulated relations are established, as the municipality of Ljubljana has stopped co-financing for this very reason. From history, I can tell you that both kings and emperors, both the Senate and parliaments, were involved in the establishment of botanical gardens. Ljubljana was also established by decree of the then authorities of the Illyrian provinces. Today it goes as easily as if it were just a matter of the university. The garden at the site so far needs to be declared a cultural and natural monument or sight. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, and I hope that the procedure in this regard has already expired. Ms Kucler Dolinarova's reply to the STA that she cannot replace the lack of funding for the Botanical Garden’s activities during the year, since the government can provide intervention funds because of the unforeseen situation. Thus, there are only two gardeners in the garden this year instead of four, and they would need twelve. Since 2005, I have already asked three questions and I have pointed out all these problems, which have erupted with all force on the day of this year, and they have been ignored and almost nothing has been done, and the situation has only deteriorated. Dr. Zupan's predecessor then assured us that things would work out. On my third question a month ago, I received a dry official response from the minister and a promise of 20,000 euros that will save his fate just before the 200-year-old garden. Don't you think the ministry loses its reputation by playing with the fate of the oldest university institution in Slovenia? In addition, nothing happens to the new location of the garden. Therefore, I ask for a short-term solution to the problem, or an answer to this question, which mainly points to the financial unsustainable state of the establishment, and to the development prospects of the botanical garden. Is there a minimum desire that this relationship with the Ljubljana municipality, which has co-financed the operation of the garden, is arranged or not? For 200 years the institution has been in spite of all the shocks, many things have happened at that time, never ceased this institution to exist, and now it seems that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Municipality of Ljubljana and the University are literally cancelling the Botanical Garden and they do not care about its fate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u190	Thank you, too. Minister Simonita, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Well, I'll only be able to answer in part, probably more than a colleague of Kucler Dolinar's. The Ministry of Culture is preparing a proposal to declare a monument of State importance and once the Botanical Garden has gained status, the administrator will be able to apply for public tenders and thus obtain or obtain protection funds, not only from this title. For funding, as we know, the founder is the University of Ljubljana. He's getting the money for that. The university itself, as I know, distributes these funds according to its own judgment. With regard to the role of the Municipality of Ljubljana as a part owner of land, I cannot give an explanation in this regard. With regard to the relocation, the location of the Botanical Garden is changed, and this is also within the competence of the University and the Municipality of Ljubljana. More than that, I can't say, so just like I said, the Ministry of Culture is preparing an act to declare the Botanical Garden a monument of state importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. But only Bevk has a supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u193	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Ministry of Culture does not have great powers in this area, but I think it would be good, as the Minister has basically confirmed to me, that they will prepare a decree to protect this historic area of the Botanical Garden, which is considered to be the oldest university institution in Slovenia, and in two years it will celebrate a celebrated 200-year jubilee, even because there may not be any cinema around this land, because today there is so much to be on the ground so quickly and there is no way to think about how to manage such important institutions and natural sights to the future. Regardless of the fact that the Botanical Garden is to expand to a new location in some sense, it is not really a matter of abolishing an old historical location. Therefore, I think that this old historical location should also be protected and declared a cultural monument or a natural landmark by appropriate decree. However, since the red thread of my questions has been mainly a dialogue with each Minister or Minister of Higher Education since 2005 and I expect the Minister to give me an oral answer at the next meeting, and if necessary I will ask a further question. It is high time, however, that the situation is settled and that the issue of the Botanical Garden in Ljubljana is finally resolved in dialogue between the competent ministry, the Ljubljana municipality and the university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u194	Thank you very much. If I understand you correctly, you want the Minister to answer you at the next meeting within the remainder of the time you have left. Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. Milan M. Cwickl will ask the Minister of the Interior a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u195	Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, citizens and citizens! My question to Minister Dragutin Mate is this: How do you assess the involvement of Slovenian police with investigative and other law enforcement authorities in both Slovenia and abroad regarding indications of irregularities and suspected corruption in the purchase of 8 x 8 armoured personnel? I must say, on Friday, when I was preparing this question, I did not know that there would be such a high visit in Slovenia today. I must say that I also did not know that some would try to reduce the importance of this visit with attention. But Mr. Secretary, this is a very serious matter. I have been persecuted for several months by various things so that we cannot do our work in peace. What year is the documentation in the National Assembly? Documentation that clearly proves that there is an important discrepant between what has been chosen to be bought and between what has actually been bought. Otherwise, Mr Erjavec will say many times that nothing has been paid. However, the contracts are signed. Under these contracts, an intermediary will get at least EUR 50 million more from the seller than was actually offered. Now let's leave some details about whether we're even buying the right weapons. But it's a question of prices, it's a question of delivery deadlines, it's a question of guarantees, it's a question of certificates, it's a question of intermediaries. This is what some have, of course, written down today or in Saturday’s work, is about the provision of so-called consultancy services, which are not necessarily included in specific written products. Of course, I will ask you immediately: What about this famous story of cables and cable counselling at the Pediatric Clinic because we handed over all the documentation to the police a year ago? What about this corruption investigation carried out by the Finnish police, I understand today, including in cooperation with the Slovenian police and the Slovenian prosecutor's office? I ask this because two months ago, someone in the National Assembly threatened the National Assembly, the State of Slovenia, that they would sue us for warning us about things. The same one who threatened is in prison in Finland today. I told Finnish journalists if they believed that Finland was still a low corrupt state and I said, "Yes, exactly what you're doing proves it." Minister Dragutin Mate, are you the Minister of the Interior, how do you assess this cooperation, and has the police done everything in her power? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u196	Thank you very much for your question. But the Minister is asking you for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for asking. In many of the statements you have given, unfortunately I am not competent to answer them and explain why someone has entered into any contracts and how. If there's anything wrong with these contracts, the investigation will show. Even if someone puts pressure on you. I'm certainly not responsible for this. If these pressures are such that they are illegal, of course you know how to deal with them and how to turn to the authorities competent to prevent such acts. However, as regards cooperation between different institutions, both within and outside the country, some things need to be said very clearly. Personally, I've already said this once today, and I'll do it again. I was also personally in telephone contact with the Finnish Minister of the Interior, when I, of course, heard from the media about the processes or suspicions of criminal acts of corruption which were suspected by some of Patria's employees and offered her the cooperation of the Slovenian police in every way, with all the means and all the knowledge we have. And she said, roughly, that when there is a need and when there is a need for such cooperation, they will also turn to our authorities. There are contacts between the prosecutions of the two countries, there are operational contacts between the police and certainly not Members, and not all others are invited and entitled by law to know when there will be operational meetings of the police at any level. I am also informed and the law does not allow me to be informed of the operational matters that the police are carrying out. Therefore, of course, you will find details on what is operationally the Slovenian police on this matter and what are the operational contacts with the Finnish police and what are the arrangements, on which persons or cases are acting unfortunately I cannot respond. And you know that I don't have the authority to know about the operational data that happens in the police department. And that's why you're asking me this. If you ask the police, and the law also obliges them that, as long as the matter is operational, alive, they must not proceed with any of their proceedings, they are legally binding, not to endanger any criminal investigation at all. However, with regard to cooperation between different authorities in Slovenia, it is necessary to make it very clear. The Criminal Procedure Act provides that all State authorities and public authorities shall, as soon as they find out that the offence is a crime, as soon as they have evidence, inform the law enforcement authorities thereof, protect this evidence and hand it over to law enforcement authorities if the acts are officially prosecuted. If they do not hand over these evidence, they do not disclose it and if such a crime under our legislation has been threatened by a criminal offence for more than three years, they have also committed the offence themselves. Now those authorities who claim to have such evidence must ask themselves if they have so much time to prove why they have not informed the police. More. When one of these institutes in Slovenia, which was vehemently in the media, told them that they had since January information to know everything that they had evidence that they knew everything, wrote, when they declared it to the media, we wrote them an official letter from the criminal police to give us this evidence that we could start working, we received an answer that I have already quoted earlier today: "We both tell you that the bribery of the employees of the company Patria, which is being investigated by the Finnish security authorities and mentioned in your letter, has not been considered by the Commission." I don't know who's fooling around, or those authorities that talk about it in the media say they have evidence, or those that work in accordance with their legal powers. Slovenian police cooperated with the Finnish police, they cooperated, operational contacts were, I personally had a telephone conversation with the minister, the police director had, I think, a contact, the chief of the criminal police had with the chief of the criminal police. And we also have purely operational contacts. And it's not about any reduction, at least on my part, no, of the visit that was here. It's an operational contact. Do you know how many operational contacts the Slovenian police have daily with the police of other countries? Very much. If I were to give the exact figures, people would be very surprised how many different visits to different police in other countries we have in Slovenia and how many such visits are made by Slovenian police in the territory of other countries. This is normal cooperation. And this cooperation can be [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u198	Thank you very much. My friend Milan M. Squeakle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u199	Look, Mr. Secretary, with all due respect. It's a trick. What you have just read from a letter from Mr Kos and have been provided with all the documentation in particular concerning what is described as a corrupt act of pressure or the action of the official authorities in the selection process. That's what they delivered to you. Of course, they could not deliver to you what the Finnish police had or were supposed to have. I ask you this: You are the Minister of the Slovenian Government, your colleague Minister Erjavec claimed that the story of Patrie is a story that started in Slovenia. It's supposed to come from Slovenia. Yesterday we also heard a statement by the Finnish Chief Investigator, who made it clear that the indictment did not come from Slovenia. But for two months now, we have been under pressure on the commission, on the anti-corruption commission, one way or another, that we have initiated procedures for which it is in our interest to reveal themselves, but the Finnish police, as has been said, have not received and was not indicated. I wonder: If you have not informed the Finnish police, how can a minister, a colleague in your government, claim such a thing? How can Chief Patrie come to Slovenia, he says, Slovenian Parliament, Slovenian Parliamentarians, Slovenian, I don't know, the system technicians have triggered this, and this, in saying, is "observing" the Slovenian public [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] And I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, next. Patricia was something that started a year ago. What happened in the middle? However, a bad year ago, evidence was also transmitted to the Commission's Public Finance Supervisory Commission that someone had received a quarter of a million euros. What's with the story? Why is it that everything about the story called the Pediatrics Clinic, which went a quarter of a million euros, has no evidence? And what are you going to do? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And what is the content of the agreement that your chief of police and the Finnish investigators have concluded to bring this matter to the bottom? [[...]] At what time do you expect specific answers? I'm asking for exact answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I will try to answer your question or these supplementary questions as accurately as possible. First of all, if I stop at the Pediatrics Clinic. As you know, and you know it, you're asking me such a question as a minister I don't have the right and access to the police's operating data. I have no right under the law. And that's why you're asking me for nothing what's been done operationally. I can ask. And if the case is closed with a criminal complaint or a report, I have the right to know. And you didn't ask me that in the initial question, so I can't answer that. I can't answer that because I have to ask the police. I don't have a miracle button, as you imagine, or as much as any other ministers in previous governments had and had "online" all the data they didn't have the right to. I don't, and it's a good thing I don't. That's the law, and that's the constitution in this country. And I respect it very precisely. But as for the pressures and statements of Minister Erjavac, you must ask him, not me. You have an investigative committee, you have questions, ask him. I cannot comment on why and on the basis of what he said. I didn't talk to him about Patrio, not a word. There's no need. If anything is wrong, if investigative action is required, the police will do it, do it, and conclude without the Minister knowing it. And that's the way it is. I don't have anything to talk to my fellow minister about. I don't have anything to talk to Principal Patrie about either. And what he said, unfortunately you have to ask him, not me. But as for the agreements that took place today between the Police, I have no right to these contents. It's an operational meeting between the two police, between the operatives of the two police. And the press and the public won't get any data. If the investigation runs as soon as it's finished, then the public will be informed. One, two, or no criminal charges, I don't know. I can't answer that, unfortunately. And you know exactly that I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u202	Thank you very much. My friend Milan M. Squeakle, your procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u203	In accordance with Article 246(2), we shall hold a debate on this non-response. See, my question was very clear: How do you assess cooperation? And, of course, one of the indicators of cooperation is the completion of criminal proceedings. I just made a case. You know, everybody's moving in here now. Those who were informed a year ago are being transmitted, and those who should watch the documents are not watching them. Of course, you're only then, you're saying that only then did you call a Finnish colleague when you read that someone was arrested. You know, it's been a year. If the government only looked at the report of the Border Commission and what had been signed, the government should know that something was seriously wrong. However, the Government concluded this on the Administrative Affairs Commission. And there your fellow minister was there, and he even said at a meeting: "No, no, because the President of the Government knew nothing" under quotations. But, Minister, how do you assess the involvement of the Slovenian police in this particular corruption case, which is becoming an international scandal, does not matter to the Slovenian public. As it would probably be good to be told today, for a quarter of a million euros in tax advice for cable laying, someone is already criminally charged. What's he doing with these documents for one year? What's he doing with these documents for a year? Of course, let's not talk about what is a fundamental problem, Mr Minister. We have a bunch of documents here, but they're hiding behind all sorts of secrets. We have a top secret, we have an internal, we have a business secret. And we can't put these documents out, because then we'd be arrested immediately, in a rumor, because we were violating, I don't know, ZGD. But behind these documents is the problem that some story was complete, pure corruption, pure fiction, and then some got the opportunity to do a deal they should never have. I therefore propose that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 260, we discuss this broad debate at the next meeting. I hope that by then something more is known about these stories. It would be good to know, because only a few weeks after the Finns went out with this, they arrested some people. But it'll obviously take a while for us. Or as in the case of the Pediatric Clinic all year long, that a criminal charge will be handed down against someone who has received 51 million tolars at the time, the current quarter of a million euros? That's why I'm not happy with your answer. That's a typical answer - if I don't have to, I can't know or not. But I think it is in the national interest that this problem needs to be clarified. Why? Because Slovenia is here at the defence work of the century probably made a corrupt mistake of the century. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u204	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. My colleague, Aurelio Juri, will refer the question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr. Secretary. I will join you in thanking my colleague Pečanavo for the unique help you have given to Slovenian fishermen. But you know that's not what I'm asking you here. The ecological fishing zone has caused significant damage in particular to the Fish Company, which is one of the few, or only, fishing traditionally on the high seas with its ships, in addition to some private fishermen, because Croatia has established this zone. When the zone became valid, because of the fear of encountering complications, the fishermen of the Isolese Fish stayed at home. It was a fear of capture and capture. The government, while encouraging them to continue their normal activities, normal work, normal fishing, Czech Republic, Slovenia and the European Union are not subject to the ecological fishing zone of Croatia, but did not hope to provide guarantees if the worst happened if the capture of the vessel occurred in order to compensate them for this damage. She gave some assurance, as the Slovenian public also heard through the media, through broadcasts, that only the damage that will result from the ship's restlessness will be repaid to them, i.e. the inaction. And the fishermen of the Isolese Fish expected that for those two and a half months, as much as it cost, about 98 000 euros, the government would also pay. Recently, the government has announced that the damage will not come back because it is their fault if they have not gone fishing. Since the ecological fishing zone did not apply to us, these activities could normally be carried on. You remember, at the time, we also spoke on the phone, when I was involved in ensuring to fishermen that there were some guarantees of the state that they were protected, that someone behind them was behind them, that they would calm them down enough to actually encourage them to continue their work. The answers were that there was no system for no one to give these guarantees. Not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, and so on, which is also responsible for fisheries, not the other Ministry. But they expected at least this cost to be reimbursed. I ask Mr Minister: How is it that a broken word is given and that today the isolation fishermen of the Fish Company must satisfy themselves with the fines assigned are important for each individual fisherman, but do not meet the need.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Minister Jarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u207	Thank you for this issue, which relates mainly to the conditions of management, as far as I understand in our neighbouring sea or fishing sector. The fact is that Vlado is undoubtedly concerned about the situation in the fisheries sector. In this sense, as you yourself said, we have recently adopted a regulation from a package called [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] from State aid to economic fishermen for 2007 to provide aid of around €100,000 due to the deterioration of the economic situation in the sector. [[...]] This has been justified by the negative trend in annual fish catches due to various reasons, increasing production costs, and also partly infrastructure irregularities, although fish and product prices are rising, their consumption in Slovenia is relatively low compared to that of the European Union. Tomorrow we will also have a special meeting with ministers of some EU member states, major members who want us to open up the topic of worsening the economic situation in the fisheries sector at the June meeting of fisheries ministers next week in Luxembourg. We are also continuing the accelerated work on the operational programme so that we can start drawing on funds in this case already this year. As far as Fish is concerned, let me assure you that this company, which is one of the key, has by no means been in the past and will not be affected by the situation of the conditions for economic fisheries. I provide some information which is public and therefore I also provide it. In 2005, the company received more than €100,000 for two different measures, about €25,000 in 2006. So in 2005 and 2006 alone, about 128,000 euros. The company will also undoubtedly receive funding under the regulation I mentioned. As for the various promises you have mentioned, I find them very difficult to comment on. I was alone with Commissioner Borge in charge of fisheries in November 2007 in the Coast, where we discussed, in fact, what the Slovenian Presidency will look like in the area of fisheries. On the press issue after this meeting, what Slovenia will do if the ZERC happens, I said, and it is necessary to take this in that time context, we will examine all the economic consequences that could result from this, in accordance with the European acquis and the Slovenian acquis, and on the basis of measures that are possible, we will also try to remedy this economic situation. I think we've been following what's going on in the sector. Otherwise, I think the position of the Government towards ZERC and all procedures is very clear to you. The government has adopted on this 22nd. 5. also a special position. I think we have answered your question in writing as well, I think already in February and March in this regard. As far as this is concerned, the Government has not broken its promises, since the Government has confirmed or made it very clear that the conservation ecological fishing zone unilaterally declared by the Republic of Croatia has had no legal effects for the EU Member States.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u208	Thank you very much. My colleague Aurelio Yuri's supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u209	Mr. Minister, this is what we've heard, what we've read, what we know is the position of the Slovenian government towards ZERPA. [[?]] . The problem is that fishermen who had already experienced an accident in the past, namely, fishing in Croatian territorial waters, were seized by a ship and were seriously trembling whether they would ever get it back. Well, it happened, they paid some fine, they got the ship back. But you know if there's a relapse and they catch the ship again so those ships can't see again. And these are fishermen in order to fish normally forward, in line with the government's assurance and position that the eco-fishing zone has no legal effects on Slovenia, the government could provide adequate guarantees. The appropriate guarantees in order to ensure that fishermen lose their ship are not caught in order to recover the ship. But these assurances were not provided by the government. No one was in the government to give this guarantee to the Fish Company and thus encouraged them to go hunting normally. They stayed for two and a half months at home until the Croatian assembly canceled or cancelled the nightly famous session. And that is when the situation returned to the previous state or state of the agreement between Croatia, Slovenia, Italy and the EU. During this time, 98,000 euros in damage occurred. We could cover them with a catch that we're counting on to break out the EUR 108,000 circus, but that wasn't the catch. And that's where the damage came in. The whole Slovenian public has heard several times [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] There are broadcasts and so on, and on commercial television, at the hearings, also to make sure the government takes care of the time of default. [[...]] Now this damage is assessed, but the government said no. And that's a mistake, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u211	Thank you. During the period from 1 January to 18 March, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which I have here, the Government has repeatedly provided clear - written and oral assurances to Slovenian fishermen that Slovenian fishing vessels in the Adriatic Sea can fish in the same way as they did by 1 January 2008. These messages stressed that fishermen will be compensated for damage caused by the unlawful or unlawful conduct of a third country. That didn't happen. Now it's hard to say what would have happened if it had happened. And in that sense, we invited the fishermen to inform us of any problems that might arise as a result of the conduct of the Croatian side of the high seas of the Adriatic Sea. What I think is crucial in this case is that we are in our ministry, which is responsible for economic fishing, we do not know this assessment of the damage you have been talking about. But we are in contact all the time and ready to be in contact and solve the economic problem of Slovenian fishing or fishermen. I think that's the key. And according to my assessment, in this case, the Government acted correctly, in accordance with its policy and also in accordance with our ministry, as far as possible by the legal order currently in force in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u212	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions sent. It'll be like the 27th in a sequence of numbers. Majda Potrat asked the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the Minister of Finance. They're both gone. You want to do it anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u213	Thank you. I ask the absent Minister and the absent Minister a question, and I expect you to answer me orally, because the purpose of this question has just drawn attention to something that the National Assembly has adopted when it passed a law on a resolution on a national programme on equal opportunities between women and men for the period 2005 and 2013. Two working bodies have also discussed or have taken note of the first two-year periodic plan for the implementation of this resolution. It is this report that has led me to ask the question of both ministers or ministers and ministers. It is about Slovenia being bound by legal bases and international obligations to integrate the principle of equal opportunities for all policies. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which is the mother ministry for this area, has also found that, in accordance with the law on equal opportunities for women and men, reporting on the implementation of the national programme should also be prepared and the indicative scope of the means for implementing measures and their means of providing them. If we follow the introductory chapter of the resolution, there is also a mechanism called the financial envelope for gender equality policy among those mechanisms that ensure the implementation of the resolution. And it says here that ministries are responsible for gender equality policy in their areas of competence, that this responsibility is most expressed in political programming documents and in the budgets of ministries where gender equality policy objectives and the corresponding expenditure are most explicitly expressed for them. What's this all about? When we read the report, there is not a single actual indication of how much resources have been earmarked to implement the resolution, but how much funds have actually been spent. Right after that, we could find out what was the effectiveness of government policy. I therefore ask if the report does not contain a reply from the Minister and the Minister: How much has been allocated and how much has been spent to implement the periodic plan of the National Programme for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men in 2006 and 2007? How many of these European funds were there, and how effective were we in drawing these funds? These are the questions on which I hope to receive an oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u214	Thank you very much. You'll get the answer. The last question to be asked today is by colleague Samo Bevk, and the question is addressed by the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u215	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food of Mr Iztok Jarc: How does the Forest Administration manage real estate and facilities resulting from its management under the 1993 Forest Act? How many have they sold, how many properties are leased, how many are cared for, and how many are left to the teeth of time and decay? The latter are too many and can be listed in concrete terms. The fact is that the Institute for Forests, since it has been operational, lacks sufficient resources for the current and investment maintenance of these facilities. Thus, 32 such buildings are located in the area of the Tolmine or North Sea Unit of the Institute for Forests of Slovenia. Of these, 10 are used as business facilities to carry out their activities, such as business buildings, hunting lodges and the like. 11 are leased to legal and natural persons, these are former camps, various other ancillary facilities, one is in the process of reselling, this is an auxiliary facility at the hunting lodge in the municipality of Krekovša in Idrija, three are ruins, and for five buildings there is no tenant and they are also poorly maintained and decayed. Such are the cottages of Perelin in Nadrt in the municipality of Ajdovščina and the complex of the forest hut with the related buildings in Krekovšah in the municipality of Idrija. The Forest Office has 14 regional units in the entire country, and I believe it is justified to assume that there are a number of objects, or, in my opinion, a number of objects, which are problematic statistics. The complex of facilities in Krekovša is also mentioned in the area of the Zgornja Idrijca landscape park. The municipality of Idrija is interested in redemption. She prepared an idea project for the information centre, for the future geopark and the existing landscape park of Zgornja Idrijca. However, there has been no response from the Institute of Forests for more than six months. Minister of Agriculture, Mr Iztok Jarc, I ask: How will the situation in this area be improved at the level of the whole country and how will it be listened to in concrete cases to those who wish to return to their lives? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Minister, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u217	Thank you for asking. I'm actually going to start at the end of what you asked, with numbers, very directly. The budget spends around €400,000 annually on investment transfers for investments in this area managed by the Institute for Forests. According to the Institute, the resources available are not in line with the actual needs and allow the essential needs to be met. So the answer to your question of how this situation can be rectified is undoubtedly by optimizing the use of these funds and probably also by additional resources in the budget for these purposes. How many of these buildings and what started with them, I would say that this property was obtained by a forest institution not on the basis of the Agricultural Land Fund Act, but by the Forest Act and the Government Decision in 1993 and beyond until 1997, 1998, where the property was separated from former forestry organisations. On the basis of these contracts, the Republic of Slovenia has become the owner of 288 buildings or parts of buildings on three hundred and ninety-five properties. The book value of this property is estimated to be some less than €10 million. In 2003, the Government adopted a property review with a proposal for management in this area, as well as regulations dealing with the real estate of the country in this area, as well as guidelines for divestment or lease. With regard to these latest data, I would like to tell you that between 2003 and 2006, the institution has been in line with the programme and has sold out a total of 31 facilities on the basis of the Government's conclusions. Currently it rents 92 buildings or parts of buildings, while the rest is used for public, forestry service activities. According to the agency's assurances, they're treating this property with care. They also say that an object, usually a wooden structure that represents a disproportionate cost or that a sale would not be a solution, could leave such a project to fail. That's the information I got from the department. If I can get an answer. The available meeting should be sufficient to meet the urgent investment needs, not all of them. And if there is an interest, even in the local communities that you have indicated to talk to the institution, I can promise that I can also urinate or see what can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Comrade Bevk has a request for an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u219	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In raising the issue, I really made a false reference to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, but I was later warned and today I referred to the 1993 Law on Forests. The fact is that for almost 359 real estates that have been transferred or have been transferred and are now, of course, less than 400,000 euros, there is certainly not enough money for running and direct maintenance, let alone for more demanding investment maintenance. Since I know specific cases, especially this case in the Krekovša municipality of Idrija, this forestry hut, then owned by the so-called forest economy, was very well restored, but it began to fail in those years after 1990. Therefore, we do not care about the municipality here, and we would like to create an information center here for this landscape park or geopark, which is also planned. I think it would be good for the Institute of Forests or, consequently, for the Government to approve the sale of this facility by a special decision, because the municipality and the funds it would receive from the European funds are willing to invest in this project. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Minister Jarc, because the previous question from the previous meeting, when I asked about cultural monuments and the natural sights he has in the management of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, is being successfully resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-16-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Minister, I thank you very much for being with us to the end, both Members of Parliament and both Members of Parliament. We'll call it off. That's not true, two groups of Members. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on Tuesday, 17 June, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, will decide on the proposals for decisions you have put forward by Members on a procedural basis. I'm adjourning the 40th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. Until then, say good-bye.
