ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members. We begin with the continuation of the 37th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed and inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: colleague Anton Anderlič, Marjan Drofenik by 2 p.m., Matjaž Han, Feri Horvat, Victory Jelinčič, Bojan Kontic and Mrs Breda Pecan from 10 a.m. and 50 minutes in advance. And we're moving on to 4. At the end of the day, this is a second defensively proposed law on the property change of the unspecified capital of the insurance undertakings, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. We have 60 minutes or an hour for this point. The draft law was submitted to the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this bill, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly the adoption of a decision that: "The proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration." I give the floor first to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, for further explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I welcome everything, including our young guests on the balcony. At its 38th meeting, on 6.3., the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law on the recasting of undeclared insurance capital. As usual, representatives of the Government or representative and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the work. We have seen that the bill is based on the main objective of the proposed text on the implementation of the finalisation of the property transformation of insurance undertakings. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia is expected to become the legal holder of the shares transferred to the Capital Society as the current beneficiary. The Legislative and Legal Service has raised concerns about Article 90 of the Constitution and Article 25 of the Law, under which the National Assembly may not adopt a law one year after the referendum decision has been declared, which would be substantively contrary to the decision of the electorate. It was not entirely clear whether this law was opposed or whether it really was different from what we considered at the referendum. In addition, the Legislative and Legal Service has made further comments on all articles of the proposed law. The proposed law has also been defined by the Government. The representative of the Government said that he objected to the adoption of this law, but that the Government had already adopted a new law on the property transformation of the insurance undertaking in the process, which was why it was also necessary to say that there was no representative of the proposer at the meeting of the committee, this was the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, and it was also virtually impossible for the proposer to ask a certain question which would clarify the correctness of this law or comply with Article 90 of the Constitution and Article 24 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative. Therefore, after a short discussion, the Committee adopted a proposal that the law was not suitable for further consideration and that such a decision should also be proposed to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the proposer of the bill to present the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Mr Branko Majes, a member of the Council of State, is with us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Members! The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a proposal on the reallocation of undeclared capital in insurance companies and has accepted a request because it initially rejected your proposal for legislation and has adopted a request for re-decision on the law which was subsequently adopted by the National Assembly. Therefore, the Council of State has submitted an application for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Change of Insurance. The marriage at the referendum with a large majority was not confirmed. Thus, the Property Change Act still provides for a commitment following the adoption of a specific law setting out the criteria by which natural persons will be entitled to the shares of an insurance undertaking, pension vouchers or pension insurance policy. Until the entry into force of this special law, a capital company may not have the shares of insurance which it has received under this law. The process of transition from the former social property arrangements to the current private property arrangements for insurance undertakings with regard to the unspecified capital of insurers, in particular in the case of natural persons, is not yet completed and therefore a specific law on the transformation of insurance undertakings in this part is still necessary and necessary. The basic objective of the law prepared by the State Council is to complete the property transformation of insurance companies, to ensure effective management of the ownership of the Triglav Insurance Company, while at the same time ensuring the benefits of managing this capital to the widest possible circle, i.e. individually undetermined insurers, the legal predecessor of the Triglav Insurance Company. The National Council with the proposed law offers the following solutions: The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia becomes the legal holder of the shares transferred to the capital company as the current beneficiary. The capital company shall, on behalf and for the account of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, manage shares or assets arising from the holding of shares. The availability of shares by the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance may also be made on a reasoned proposal from the capital company. Share-holding funds may be allocated for the further management of assets for other investments and for the charging of pension funds. From the date of application of this proposal, the pension and disability insurance institution shall become the owner of the shares issued for the outstanding capital of the Insurance Company Triglav pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 6, of the Property Recast Act, which until the date of entry into force of the law on the benefit of the capital company. The justification for shares has been provided for in Article 20, paragraph 3, of this Law. The securities register shall be drawn up by transfer of securities to the account of the Institute of Pensions in the Central Securities Register, in accordance with the law on non-materialised securities. The Pension and Disability Insurance Office is the legal owner of the shares, so it will be able to dispose of the shares for the purpose of the pension fund, but it will also be able to do so on the basis of a reasoned proposal submitted by the Capital Society. The assets at the disposal of the shares may be allocated to the continued management of the Capital Company with the assets of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office for the purpose of spreading risks and maximising the return on assets, for example, for investments in equity and debt securities, shares of companies and bonds, treasury bills, bank deposits and debt securities of foreign issuers, on behalf of and for the account of the institution or for the transfer of funds to the pension register. No funds are required from the State budget to implement the proposed law and the law will therefore have no financial implications for the state budget or for other public funds. The law will definitively complete the process of the property transformation of insurance undertakings, which will thus create a sound and clear ownership structure, which is important for the smooth functioning of the market. Pensions will be more stable in the long term, as the law allows the management of shares and the nobility of the pension fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The Government, mag. Andrej Šircelj, Secretary of State, will present their definition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The National Council of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up a proposal for a law on the reallocation of undeclared insurance capital, proposing that the ownership of insurance undertakings be completed by establishing the Pension and Disability Insurance Office as the legal holder of the shares issued for the unspecified part of the insurance capital. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia disagrees with the proposal for a law on the recasting of the undeclared capital of insurance undertakings and has prepared a proposal for a law on the realignment of the share of insurance undertakings to which natural persons are entitled. The main reasons why the Government does not agree with the proposed law are as follows. The proposal for a law prepared by the Government, as well as a proposal by the Council of State, proposes the transfer of insurance shares to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. However, unlike the proposal of the Council of State, more precisely and transparently regulates the procedures for the disposal of this property. In order to ensure the widest possible consensus on the availability of assets and on the professional and transparent implementation of these assets, the Government has identified in the proposal that rules governing the management of the state's financial assets apply to all disposal procedures. This means that the Pension and Disability Insurance Office would be bound, in the event of the confiscation of property, to conduct the sale process in accordance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act and the Sales Regulation and other forms of disposal of state and municipality assets. All procedures defined by those rules are carefully developed and in practice well established and thus ensure the principle of transparency and the principle of equal treatment of tenderers. The proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in contrast to the proposal of the State Council, provides for the obligation of the holder of insurance shares, i.e. the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, to maintain an equity share which must not be less than 25% plus one share. This would preserve the Slovenian character of the Triglav Insurance Company, its effective implementation and its long-term development, due to its strategic importance and long-term interest. The proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in contrast to the proposal for a law submitted by the Council of State, also provides that the funds made available to the public may only be used for further management, following the principle of cost-effectiveness and efficiency in the management of public funds. Such additional funds shall be allocated to beneficiaries of pension and disability insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! These are the main reasons why the Government does not agree with the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u7	Thank you, too. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Villa Rezman, a fellow Member of Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good morning, everyone! The Law on Property Conversion of this Unspecified Capital in the Triglav Insurance Company was repeatedly under consideration and the same objectives have always been stressed. If we short-circuit them, it is that the owner was always sought, that the owner could be sought, and that the next goal was to participate as many citizens as possible in the Republic of Slovenia. So far, the proposals have been quite different. Let me remind you that the group has also proposed some specific development funds, which would have formed from the Government's proposal to support this, so to speak, that the proposals, under the terms of reference, would have been given to 700 000 people in Slovenia and none of these proposals actually had a real chance of being adopted. There were also many different and rather turbulent paths. So, apart from the procedures that we have been used to in most cases, we have also had a referendum, and it must be said, at least on behalf of the DeSUS Group, that we are satisfied that we are assessing that this process of owning unspecified capital is now being completed. It concludes in a way that we are in principle inclined to do. The question was indeed whether this might not be in conflict with the referendum will of the people. We've estimated that not. This was also the case with the Legislative and Legal Service, and in fact the referendum question was so asked that it did not ask what capital was involved, but rather asked whether you were in favour of the Government or against it. So this has nothing to do with today's debate. Because that's one part of history that isn't real anymore. But it is very good that those, remember, at the time were the preeminent time for the State Council that those who were the main protagonists and who promised to give were still unsuccessful. They've failed twice. The best way to keep them outside the gates of the State Council is because they wanted to instrumentalize this referendum. DeSUS's goal was clear all the time. We wanted among other objectives, which were listed, in particular sufficient resources to supply funds for the pension fund. We wanted to get out of the country, out of the economy. That is why we landed at the time in the previous law for Kad’s right to have, if that was his property, the right to do so. Otherwise, the government would have a slightly extended arm over it to manage the Triglav Insurance Company and we wanted to disperse these investments into a number of portfolio investments and thus reduce risks and hope for maximum returns. The current law provides for the following. Transfer of property to the SPIZ, which we support. It foresees good governance, in the hands of Kad, which we think is questionable. He has not done well so far, and we doubt that he will be able to manage better in the future. Attitude, this is a third important key element, envisaged as an interference of the institution's world. Which is good because there's no State's involvement in this. At this point, however, it is probably still bad, since we doubt that it is the proper composition of the world and that it is adequately capable of performing these functions. We support the basic intent of the law. However, there are some weaknesses that will prevent us from voting for him, namely that he was also no longer technically prepared, that there was no one who would be willing to confirm or not to accept the proposed amendments and that this law provides that the purchase of the shares sold may also be dealt with in such a way as to account for these purchases. Which, according to our conduct, could even be spent in a year if it were a current pension payment. Of course, this would be opposed because it would be as if a glass of sand were poured into the water, where the water would immediately dissolve. So we will not oppose or support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by colleague Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, government representatives, visitors. I really want people to understand what we're talking about. People, because we make laws as the first and legislative branch of power for people. But lately, I admit personally that I don't really understand anything anymore. As you recall yesterday, I still want Mr Miro Friday to receive an answer that is certainly not there yesterday. But let's just leave it. The Council of State has just proposed a law on the reshaping of undeclared insurance capital. And because it was proposed by the Council of State and because it is probably already part of the opposition or the opposition or anyone who has already assessed that, at the will of the people who decided at the referendum, such a proposal is appropriate, and I am convinced that what I am saying on behalf of the Slovenian National Party is that the Government, the Government with the amendment, could change the piece of legislation proposed and would be positive, so - we are for such a law to be passed. No, no, no. No, no, no. Not to respect the State Council, which we have because we have it. Now, why do we have it? We have him, and we must respect him. No, no, no. Not from "inato." Not at all. According to the Slovenian National Party, the proposal for a law is appropriate. That piece the Government disagrees with, could the Government calmly, calmly, quietly with the amendment, once again - fix. And we'd be in sync for once. But we don't want to be. I really don't understand. I mean, look, the elections are going to be one way or another. and people will win or not get votes, we will, you will, but it looks like the people's will expressed at the referendum, the will of the world that you know that the Slovenian National Party is the one saying whether to get the State Council's actual status as a Senate, with all responsibility and obligation, or whether to abolish it, but at this point we have it and respect it. [[...]] And he made a proposal for a law that carries some funds to the pension and is a good proposal for a law. In that part, when it's not, the government should just get back together and with some amendment and after all, you know what the biggest joke is, as far as I'm reading all these laws, and you know there aren't a few, I see that we all think the same thing, but because we're one red and one green doesn't go. In fact, there is no significant difference between the government law and the law proposed by the State Council in an article that could be harmonized, which is the funniest. And then we go, when I read magnetograms, 6 articles, 6 amendments to the Law and Law Service, 6 different opinions, we're against the law, then a new law comes along that fixes one part of it and we're against that law. I don't know, we make a fool of ourselves, and we make voters and voters, ladies and gentlemen and colleagues. But we are obliged to read the laws and design them for the people who live in this country of the Republic of Slovenia. And I say again, because no law is ideal and now, if it is proposed by the State Council is not good, it must be only the one proposed by the Government and if the Government proposes that this law is not good we must adopt what the Government proposes instead of harmonising and saying "O." K. 5 or 4 your articles are good, but two are bad, and let us correct with the amendment and harmonise the law that will be approved by the Government with amendments." No, that is not. I do not understand this, simply, simply, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, I do not understand. And now on your nose, the bill is not suitable for further consideration. No, in the Slovenian National Party we are convinced that it is appropriate and we warn and say out loud that with one amendment, only one, the Government would make this law suitable for further consideration. Either he doesn't or he doesn't want to, ask the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I'll present the position of the Lip Group myself. Your Honors are here! So, according to the assessment of the Lipa Group, the government's tendency is not in the form of the content of the law, as it is before us today. So, in no way, at least in our firm belief, the Government is not trying to solve limited matter in the form that is now envisaged for consideration signed by the State Council. However, I would like to highlight the positive content of the proposed law in the part that speaks or would allow for the transfer and establishment of a system of easier and better living for the elderly within our country. So, I'm talking about the tendency towards a single cash register or pension fund, and so allowing, not just for today's pensioners, but for those who, if possible, would come into their kind very soon. However, we cannot agree with the part which, of course, speaks of the role of a capital company within the framework of that law. We are people who believe in the credibility of the KAD and we are people who do not believe in the credibility of the KAD, but we do not believe in the ability to actively manage investments by KAD. From this title, it means that we will oppose the proposal for a decision of the parent labour body or, in other words, that we will support the bill at this stage of the legislative procedure, because the actual legislative procedure allows us to continue certain parts with which we do not agree to change, the parts with which we agree are still able to upgrade or leave in existing form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u12	Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u13	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. So in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group we support the basic objective of the law, namely to complete the property transformation of insurance companies or to ensure effective management with the ownership of the insurance company Triglav. Of course, to ensure, at the same time, the eligibility or provision of this capital to the widest possible circle. However, in our view, the draft law before us does not provide, or underly regulates, the procedures for the disposal of this property. In our view, under this law, this management would be imprudent and the cost-effectiveness and efficiency of this investment is also questionable. Otherwise, we support the basic solution to transfer this property to the pension fund, and there are no reservations. However, as far as management and sales are concerned, possible, and of course we have reservations about this share. We wanted some things to be improved with the applicant on the working body, but unfortunately there was none of the applicants. We are also disturbed by the fact that the Law-Legal Service has made comments on all the articles of this Act, but it was not possible to take these comments into account in the home labour body. My colleague told me that we should make arrangements for God's will, but how should we coordinate if those who propose are not present at the place where it is decided? For this reason, we support the decision of the parent working body that the decision is not appropriate for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u14	Thank you, too. Mag. Anton Rop will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, everyone! Dear Members and Members! Today we have before us the proposal for a law on the recasting of undeclared insurance capital proposed by the State Council for adoption. So what are the essential substantive points of this law? This law simply wants to close the property transformation of insurance companies in our country, wants to ensure effective ownership management and at the same time ensure adequate entitlements for those who are entitled to it. The fact is that the proposal for a law on the recasting of undeclared insurance capital, as proposed by the State Council, is based on the results of the legislative referendum on the Property Change Act. The result of a referendum on the law adopted by the National Assembly on 11 September by the Government, in spite of the Council's veto, despite comments and warnings and opposition from members of opposition parliamentary groups, and not by the Government or its coalition in the National Assembly in the adoption of this law, did not then want to include in the law a very simple fuse which would prevent the sale of 35% of the capital of the shares of the Triglav Insurance Company, and would only use shares or entitlements to manage these shares for long-term financing of pension goods. The government didn't want to do that at the time, and the coalition didn't want to do that. That is why we were very clear against the law at the time, and we supported the State Council in its desire to sign a legislative referendum. Nobody listened at the time. If the Government then listened to the comments we made, and if it really wanted what it was saying today and what it had stated and promised in the referendum debate, then the comments and the proposed safeguards would be taken into account at the time of the adoption of the law and it would not be necessary to have a referendum and today's debate on this law. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that. And the results of the referendum are quite clear, the message is clear: 674 thousand voters and voters voted against the government law, or almost 72% of all voters and voters who voted at the time. The Communication is clear: the message is that voters and voters oppose government law as proposed to oppose the sale of state property, as has been the case in Slovenia lately, and that they do not want the availability of capital, with shares, to be left to the Government. We note that, as this law, which is proposed before us, ensures that at least 35% of the share of the Insurance Company Triglav will no longer be in the hands of the current Government, but the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, which is also in the hands of the social partners and pensioners. We believe in the parliamentary group that this has already ensured greater transparency and rationality of governance. While we believe that the proposed solution can still be improved, there is no need to reject the proposed law. Today, when the government opposes this law, it speaks of those guards who could have already been involved in the drafting of the law when it was drafted, before the referendum, when we had the amendments of the State Council, the opposition, did not want to include these guards. She could have included these guards in the debate on the parental committee, she did not want to do so. Today it explains that the law will have to be rejected, that it will prepare these amendments and complete them. While we believe that this law needs to be supplemented in terms of fuses and ensure that the benefits of the management of the shares of the Triglav Insurance Company as well as other shares owned by the When in fact in the long term [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] receive those who are entitled to them and are current and future pensioners. [[...]] Therefore, it would be appropriate to consider fully reorganising the ownership, control and management of the capital company. The Social Democrats' Group will be proposing a law on the reallocation of undeclared insurance capital, as proposed by the State Council, to support and prepare proposals to supplement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Colleague Milan Petek will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Good bye to all of you! Let me start by saying that the LDS does not oppose the bill we are considering today. Clearly, we support the continuation of his treatment, because we believe that the solution is that the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance becomes the legal holder of the shares of the Triglav Insurance Company, which have been transferred to Kad, as the current beneficiary, is the first time to resolve the Gordija knot created by this part of the implementation of the law. Throughout the debate, both on the home committee and on all other activities, the proposed law was found to be significantly different in one part from the referendum law, but it is not a substantive law, i.e. an identical law as rejected at the referendum, and therefore the treatment of this law is not a violation of the referendum will. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support the basic objective of the law, which is mainly to complete the property transformation of insurance companies and to ensure effective management of the ownership stake of the Insurance Office Triglav d.d., while ensuring the entitlement from managing this capital to the widest possible circle through the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, otherwise individually indeterminable insurers of the legal predecessor of the Insurance Office Triglav d.d. The transfer of the share to the Insurance Company Triglav or to the ZPIZ is, in the opinion of the LDS, meaningful because it allows for an investment that will help to maintain the long-term stability of the pension treasury. In the Liberal Democracy, we are aware that the long-term sustainability of public finances is threatened by the ageing of the population. As a result, the solution proposed is appropriate. At the same time, we believe that, of course, the government is also a completely neglected area of the pension system, and this will be one of the obligations of the next government, which must have priority. Unfortunately, in dealing with today's law, we are once again in a classical situation, a standing in this House that the coalition or government rejects it, especially because it has been prepared by someone else, not by government, but in this case by the State Council. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, representatives of the coalition rejected the law for this reason, not because there was no proposer, but because the government had already drafted a law with similar content. Of course, some knew nothing about this, and we did not even know what it was like. So, the reason was in this, not in the absence of the proposer. However, I must say that we, too, were not satisfied that the applicant did not participate in this meeting. We assess and are confident that this law, which we are considering, could be supplemented by amendments if only it were for this will, but the functioning of the coalition in this composition is clear, everything that is not theirs is automatically rejected in advance. Especially now that we see a government law that consists of only three articles, which, in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, does not contain some important content of the law, there are no reservations that this law should therefore not be supplemented, corrected and left for further consideration today. Therefore, because the law of the State Council can be corrected by taking into account the comments of the Legislative Service and because it is substantively appropriate, we will vote against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. However, we advise the government that if it wants to move quickly to a solution to withdraw its marriage and not send it forward, it will support today’s law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mr Ciril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u19	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the vice president, representatives of the government, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposal for a law on the recasting of the undeclared capital of insurance undertakings, which was submitted to the National Council by the National Council, is not suitable for further consideration, especially because the bill does not offer satisfactory solutions and also because of the many uncertainties that accompany the transformation of the Triglav Insurance Company for many years. In the New Slovenia Group, we are committed to privatising the insurance system, but in a way that will ensure an appropriate ownership structure and play the most effective role in the domestic financial area. We believe that the property solution in this proposal is flawed and that it is possible to draw up a better proposal that will carefully regulate asset management procedures with the property of the insurance company Triglav, which will work towards long-term development. Moreover, these proposed solutions can also translate into non-compliance with the Public Finance Act. However, we certainly agree that it is necessary to complete the property transformation of the insurance undertakings as soon as possible while ensuring effective management of the share of the insurance company Triglav, in particular in the part which, following a decision of the Constitutional Court, is intended for individual beneficiaries. We will not support the proposed law in the New Slovenia Group. In fact, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted a proposal for a law that we believe is more appropriate. It will be implemented by the will of the people at the referendum, and will also follow the principle of cost-effectiveness and efficiency in the management of public funds, while additional funds will be allocated to the pension fund, which will provide a stable source of pension payments. Nevertheless, the State will maintain its influence on the management of the insurance undertaking and thus preserve the Slovenian character of the insurance undertaking, its successful performance and its development. In the opinion of our parliamentary group, the bill is even worse than that proposed by the Government in the form of an active owner of the shares of the individual beneficiaries of the Triglav Insurance Company, which would become active ownership of Kad. The proposed solution is not good because, in our view, it creates additional unnecessary costs for the management of shares. Nor does this bill respond to the promises and statements made by the Council of State and the opposition Members that all individual beneficiaries will receive €1300, which has proved to be a fraud from today's perspective, which has contributed to the success of the referendum. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal to conclude that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party, we soon proposed that a law be drawn up to transfer the shares of the Triglav insurance companies to the ZPIZ, which would allow the long-term stability of the pension fund. We also proposed that the possible withdrawal of the share should be secured by a decision in the National Assembly. We now have two draft laws in the procedure, otherwise with a different title, but they regulate the same matter. Today we are talking about a bill prepared by the National Council as soon as citizens and citizens have rejected the law, which tried to regulate this same substance in a way that would transfer the share of the Triglav Insurance Company to Kad, without any guards, and ensure that it remains state-owned. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal of the home working body that this bill is not suitable for further consideration. The procedure is a government proposal which regulates matter in exactly the same way as we have proposed in the Slovenian People's Party that the matter should be settled. The law proposed by the National Council does not contain sufficient fuses that could effectively prevent any further sale of shares, although it also provides for the transfer of the shares of the insurance company to the STIZ. For the Government Act, all the procedures for having access to these shares are subject to the application of the rules governing the possession of the state's financial assets, which means that the basis for having access to these shares is the adoption of the Annual Decree on the Programme for the Sale of Financial Property. The Government's proposal also sets out the minimum share to be maintained by the PIZ, which is 25% plus one share. In view of everything, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will reject the proposed law of the State Council. Let me say in advance that we look forward with great joy and satisfaction to the consideration and adoption of a government proposal for a law that almost accurately sums up our views already expressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u22	Thank you very much. We have ended by presenting the views of the groups. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the draft decision today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda or at the latest at 18:00 and 50 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, the proposal for a regulation restricting the consumption of fuel and greenhouse gas emissions for purchased or leased personal motor vehicles of public authorities in local communities, public bodies, public undertakings, public bodies, public bodies, public agencies and other legal entities which are contracting entities under public procurement regulations, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. We have an hour and five minutes for this point. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members, with the first signed Mrs Cveto Zalokar Orazem. With regard to this regulation of the law or this bill, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly the adoption of a decision that: "The bill is not suitable for further consideration." I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u23	Thank you very much again for your word. Once again, a nice hello to you all. The Finance and Monetary Policy Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has also considered the proposal for a law on the limitation of fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions for the purchase or hire of personal motor vehicles by state authorities, local communities, public institutions, public undertakings, public funds, public agencies and other legal entities which are contracting entities under public procurement rules. The proposal for the adoption of legislation was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members with the first signed Cvetko Zalokar Orazem. The Legislative and Legal Service has expressed the view that the proposed law has no other substance, such as the regulation of certain issues of the award of a public contract, and it would therefore be legal and legally correct for the proposed legal solutions to be regulated as a law on amendments and additions to those laws, namely, the Public Procurement Act and the Public Procurement Act in the water, energy, transport and postal services sector in 2006. This is the only way to avoid inconsistencies between those laws. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was also sent to the competent authorities of the local communities. The call was answered by Municipality of Brežič, Municipality of Velenje and Municipality of Ljubljana and Municipality of Maribor, which in principle support the idea of the adoption of this law. The Committee was also provided with the following additional material: proposals by the proposer and the proposers of the Law for amendments to the Committee on 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and for a new Article 5a, which take into account the specific comments of the Legislative and Legal Service on all the articles of the proposed Law, as well as the proposal of the City Municipality of Ljubljana, and the letter from the Planet Earth Society of 6.3, which was the initiator of the proposed legal solutions. Qualified applicants have not tabled amendments to the law submitted within the time limit. The Committee was attended by a representative of the proposed members of the law, Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment and Space, and a representative of the Law and Legal Service. The proposer said that the law was proposed on the basis of the initiative of the Planet Earth Society, which falls within the field of green public procurement. However, all motor vehicle users should take into account the environmental aspect of public procurement. In addition, according to the proposaler and the drafters of the law, Slovenia has made insufficient concrete moves in this area despite the recommendations of the European Union. The opinion of the Government was also followed, which does not support the proposed law and considers that this issue needs to be addressed in the amendments to other laws. The question was also raised why the Government had not yet issued an appropriate sub-law, despite the possibility or authority it had under Article 39 of the Public Procurement Act. Finally, we have decided that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration. Nevertheless, the representative of the proposers stressed that part of the purpose was achieved by addressing this issue and that an initiative had been taken to ensure that some steps could be taken more quickly, in particular by issuing a sub-legislative act and by continuing certain changes that would affect the protection of our climate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, for presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government! The Council is faced with climate change, to which greenhouse gas emissions in particular contribute. In doing so, transport is one of the key pollutants. Slovenia has placed this issue among the priorities of its Presidency programme, but we can safely claim that our country is not a good example in reducing CO2 emissions. This is particularly true in the area of promoting the use of vehicles which are as low as possible of environmental burden. In this context, the potential of vehicles whose buyers or tenants are consumers of public funds is also high, from the state, ministries, offices, funds, agencies, public institutions, municipalities, hospitals, schools, universities and so on. The law we are considering has been introduced in cooperation with Planet Earth, together with its fellow Members, Aleš Gulič and Dusan Kumro, and with the support of its LDS, SD and Zares. The aim of the law is to encourage and command all consumers of public funds to purchase environmentally friendly cars, i.e. those that consume less fuel, have lower CO2 emissions and have a higher percentage of decomposing materials built in. The law falls within the scope of so-called green public procurement. These are defined as the EU's strategic orientation. However, the legal framework for such procurement has been established in the EU since 2004. Green public procurement therefore includes many things, from promoting the purchase of recycled office paper, organic food production, the purchase of wood furniture, renewable energy resources, energy-efficient computer equipment, the construction of energy-efficient buildings and the introduction of environmentally friendly public transport facilities. It is an active involvement of consumers of public funds, representing around 8% of GDP through public procurement in Slovenia and reducing the negative impact on the environment on the market through appropriate purchases. This is therefore an eco-sustainable and environmentally friendly public procurement. In so doing, the contracting authority shall include environmental criteria in the procurement and, by selecting the best bidder, reduce the environmental impact and burden. However, as Slovenian climatologist Lučka Kaifez Bogataj says, this is not about reducing cost-effectiveness, but mainly about giving good looks and impacts on the sustainable behavioural patterns of its citizens. Although we have made a small proposal, we consider it very important, in terms of appearance and impact on car buyers, the purchase and rental segment. The basic purpose of the law is to upgrade the law on public procurement in such a way that consumers of public funds have legal framework on technical guidelines for the preparation of public contracts that allow and encourage the purchase of cars that pollute the environment among comparable ones. We are convinced that declarations and good intentions, which, although very large in our country, are not enough, which we are also convinced by bad practice, but that a legal framework should be drawn up that will cover all the debtors and actually allow for the prioritisation of such vehicles. Despite the fact that she has had enough time, the Government has still not prepared the act, which is confirmed by the fact that we are not prepared to do much in concrete terms, so all we have left is to propose the legal framework and the time has been sufficient. We have laid down in the law that a type of fuel should not continue to be determined in a public contract, meaning that suppliers will decide for themselves which vehicles to compete with, hybrid, gas, diesel and the like, and in the long term the possibility of immediate inclusion of vehicles to be marketed, such as vehicles powered by hydrogen, electricity, compressed air and the like, is also open. The environmental aspect is expected to represent at least 40% of the final assessment of the selection. This seems to us to be large enough criteria that we can actually choose environmentally more suitable vehicles. We have also incorporated into the law that certain ratings also include those with dust filters installed in vehicles [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It's diesel fuel. [[..]] We certainly believe that the law should be adopted, for unfortunately in this area since 2004 the government has not done what everyone would expect. However, our country must do so also through concrete actions and not merely by declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u26	I give the floor to the representative of the Government to present his position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u27	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The proposal for a law on the limitation of fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions for the purchase or hire of personal motor vehicles by public authorities, local communities, public institutions, public undertakings, public funds, public agencies and other legal entities which are contracting entities under public procurement rules affects an area already properly regulated in the Republic of Slovenia. The Public Procurement Act, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, 2006 and then supplemented by Articles 47 and 48, expressly provides that both environmental and technical specifications and environmental selection criteria may be used in public procurement. Furthermore, Article 39 provides that the Government may provide that for certain types of public procurement and for individual products and services environmental specifications or environmental selection criteria must be established. Given that the Public Procurement Act provides the basis for the Government to define environmental criteria in the area covered by the proposed law, i.e. for the purchase or rental of public motor vehicles, it is unnecessary to regulate this area by means of the proposed law. The proposed law is also inconsistent with the applicable legislation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already foreseen measures in the field of public procurement in the framework of the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan for the period 2008 to 2016, which was adopted on 31 January 2008. It's even wider. Public procurement will also be arranged to take account of environmental requirements in areas such as building and reconstruction of buildings that are an exceptional energy user, buying cars and public transport equipment using alternative fuels, purchasing emission-efficient computers and other electrical and electronic office equipment, buying and renting energy-efficient buildings, purchasing energy from renewable energy sources and so on. Under the Public Procurement Act, the adoption of a Regulation on minimum conditions for energy efficiency of equipment, vehicles and buildings in the execution of public contracts is specifically envisaged, which will be adopted by the end of the year. Guidelines on energy efficiency and energy savings will also be published as an evaluation criterion for calls for proposals. Since the proposed law interferes with an area already adequately regulated in the Republic of Slovenia and since the Government already foresees the necessary measures in this area, the Government does not support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u28	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation of the positions of the parliamentary groups. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u29	Thank you very much again. The environmental problems and threats we face are certainly so widespread and so frightening that it would be difficult to find someone who would never think about it. Probably not even any clients. But there are also some people here in Parliament who have been doing this for a long time, for many years, for several decades, and this is not a very sporadic topic for us. I have to say that I have been meeting with Dr. Brussels for decades at similar meetings, and that is why I believe his words, because I know him as someone who is trying to preserve the environment and that we are doing it as little as possible. However, I think it is right that this topic has again come to the fore, and it is unlikely that it can be fully attracted to the applicants, nor can it be satisfied with everything the Government or the Ministry has done so far. What an acceleration is certainly welcome. It is interesting that it is, by title, seen, mainly to limit fuel consumption, the effects of greenhouse gases emitted, and for purchased and rented passenger vehicles. I stress this in order to make it clear that the ambition of this proposal is rather narrow. Those who are a little more holistic in trying to tackle these issues feel that separate pursuits are not always good. That it is better to see an integrated problem and thus, in an integrated way, also to solve it. It is therefore interesting to refer primarily to public authorities, local communities, public institutions, agencies and all those who spend public money or who are contracting authorities. The proposer is aware of environmental issues, is aware of the importance of the values associated with it, is aware of certain environmental objectives that are also set in the documents. It points out that it is aware of the examples, the examples, the awareness of our lives, and that it is aware of the strong climate problems to which the transport problem really contributes. It's important who they listed. At least it's so important that we remember who's not listed, who's been forgotten. And I don't think it's good to appeal to examples by imposing obligations solely on others, others to solve this problem on some certain smaller segments. It is not to be seen that we, for example, as individuals, as Members, as Directors of Schools, Deans, and I do not know who else, even by personal example, would be prepared to do what others are expected to do. In this way, of course, some credibility such proposals certainly lose out. In fact, the law is more of a call to put as much burden as possible, but it is possible to ask whether it is right - I don't mean by this now personally - to force us to set the example of someone, say, who overburdens this gay with the use of all possible resources, from food to drink, from not being able to walk from the kitchen to the living room, so always using the car, and so on. In short, we would be more pleased if the issue were to be demonstrated in an integrated way, if we were to talk about transport policy and not a few passenger cars to be driven by others and not by us, and if we were to do so in a way that we would be willing to point out that we should [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Sacrifice also some, we call this the unworthiness that we are accustomed to in life, and if we are willing to change our own way of life, which is unfriendly to the environment. [[...]] Yes, they are. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u30	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u31	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u32	Comrade Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the SNS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u33	Once again, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Greetings to the representative of the government! It's true, to be honest, what my temporary interlocutor said is true. That's the content. I would like to remind you, however, that I have been in office for the past eight years, and I am honoured, Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs, that one of the priorities of the State of the Republic of Slovenia is in the Presidency, environmental care. It is our obligation, the content we are talking about, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, because we have very bold plans. Everyone you're members of, you know them. And that is the basic reason why the proposal for a law on the limitation of fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions is relative, but from here on out, it is relative that this is the law that needs to be discussed. The Group of Members with the President-in-Office, Mrs Zalokar Orazem, also made it clear, or said in the talks that I would like this content to be covered, Mr President-in-Office of the Executive Branch, by means of sub-legislative acts. However, since this option is not available, the Group of Members has used the possibility of drafting a proposal for a law. In the Slovenian National Party, we have identified in particular the facts offered by Articles 2, 3 and 4. In particular, Article 4 states that the award of a contract is preferred by a tenderer offering to purchase or rent or continuously use passenger motor vehicles with lower CO2 emissions. Once again, it's true, it's funny to hear that we're talking about a law that only speaks about passenger cars. That's funny. This content should also be fully covered by the principles of the Presidency, as the predecessor said, throughout the transport sector. However, I think that there is nothing wrong with this Article 4 paragraph, and if we look at the following indent, that the selection of tenderers is in the event of a public procurement process involving a tenderer offering to purchase or continuously use personal motor vehicles that do not use fossil fuels and do not cause CO2 emissions, this advantage is conferred on the award of the contract. This is also an element that is positive in all respects, and another element in Articles 2 and 3 would be found, which are not only positive, which are mandatory, legally binding, because we have committed ourselves to be by the year, I do not know now, but I think that in 2010, 2011 CO2 emissions and greenhouse gases have been reduced by 20, 25%. That's how the numbers show up. Therefore, I do not think it appropriate to attach a negative decision. But once again, as my predecessor has said, it is true that this should be the content of a sub-law, and today, not tomorrow, because it is our obligation. You should be. And that wouldn't burden the government with making some laws. The government has a roof law that defines this content in sub-laws and then we know how the rules of the game go. To say that because this proposal is a law and a narrow one that is not suitable for further consideration, the Slovenian National Party considers it to be materially pointless. We must support all the aspirations that go into environmental protection. We must be, we want to be, we must be committed to our obligations as President of the European Union and the European Union and its greenhouse gas policy. And here again we miss the fact that we should coordinate and put this content into submarital acts and adopt it today, I say this year. No, we will, we will, we will. In the Slovenian National [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Therefore, we cannot impose a negative decision on the parties. [[...]] I want and want and ask, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, to bring the Government in line with the applicants and to form an appropriate legal form.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Thank you for your word. What does the proposal of the Group of Members bring? I firmly believe that the proposal of the Group of Members, in the opinion of the Lip Group of Members, and I believe that, in the belief of everyone who has looked at the law, read or perhaps heard anything about it, does not bring anything wrong. Therefore, it is about its content, which is pointed out, although perhaps those who say only in a certain segment, in the protection of the environment, or in that almost used phrase - care for the environment, I do not think we can speak with a negative view. More than that, it is interesting when we, perhaps 10 days ago, did not hold me to the floor, in the framework of the parliamentary group, talked about the law that is before us today, in part about its contents, which we quickly captured and welcomed very quickly. Our votes will go to that law. But what was interesting about the Council of the Lip Group was that in no way did we know how the government and how the ruling parties would destroy the content of the law. What will be the word link that will eventually lead them to vote against a law that is solely responsible for protecting the environment, a law that has no financial implications? What will that terminology or what will be the content that will be at some declaration level, that is, at the voice level, the ruling Members and the Government, be convinced that this law must not be adopted. So far in the debates I have heard two, unfortunately, I cannot say blue, unfortunately I can't say even near the blue reason. First, repeatedly stressed that this is already defined in the second law. Is that true? A woman derived from a definition in this law is a sub-law. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of the Government, we probably all have so much knowledge that we know that it is an autonomous or rather exclusive right to amend sub-laws in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and that acts of law must follow legal acts. If a Member, a Member, a Group of Members or a Group of Members has any possibility of amending the laws, then this is the law. And the marriage is ahead of us today. Because I want to say that the argument of the content of this already defined does not hold, but does not argue that the appropriate act is, of course, a sub-law. Nor is this true, for it is entirely irrelevant that we are engaged in or voting in the National Assembly on proposals that are concrete. It was very interesting, at least after my assessment or better said, according to the opinion of the Lip Group, that someone would not adopt this law because only one area of environmental protection was concerned. Personally, I apologize on behalf of the Group of Members, and this argument does not seem to me to be marked with a blue argument or a substantive argument. Even if this law touches only a fraction, it is the first step towards us to take a step in the National Assembly, and this is the first step, so we will support it in the Lipa Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u37	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Proposals to promote competition between manufacturers and providers of passenger vehicles and to reduce the costs of public finances for fossil fuels are proposed by this law. One of the strategic objectives of our country and the EU is to reduce environmental burdens and greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. Thus, the proposal does not derogate from the principles set out in the Public Procurement Act by providing only fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions and a mandatory element in the preparation of the procurement criteria. The representative of the Government says that this area is exemplaryly regulated in our legislation. But we all know that nothing is so good that it can't be better. I think it's worth dealing with these problems, so there's no way this thing's gonna go to waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Starman has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u39	Your Honor, once again a nice greeting for everyone! Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party have a very positive relationship towards the protection of our planet, towards the protection of our environment and, of course, we will be very active in this area in the future in order to achieve significant positive movements here. In particular, at one of the important meetings in the European Parliament, I drew attention to environmental protection issues and, in the context of the debate on Europe's economic challenges for the next 20 years, I discussed this very subject. I said that, of course, we are all to make progress, to increase economic development, prosperity in Europe and the world, but that we must not take this right within a few generations to destroy this planet Earth. It's important how we live in 10, 20 years. But we must be so selfless that we can ensure the existence and life of this planet in 50 and 100 years. I think we're doing very, very harmful things now, and we're speeding up the destruction of this planet. That is why I said on this occasion that Europe must urgently take the initiative, and although it is not the greatest economic force in the world to produce the most greenhouse gases in the world, it has an important role to play in promoting environmental protection measures. I am pleased that our Presidency has also taken advantage of the opportunity and is also our President and all of us together, our country has taken care of and given great support in particular to the environmental protection measures that are being taken in the European Parliament and are also trying to achieve a major shift at the global level. I think it is here, perhaps also because everyone who decides how we will live, what laws we will adopt, what legislation, most of the time in these services we are elected to governments elected to parliaments, and perhaps this is also one of the reasons why we often do not deal with problems that are of a very long-term nature and are very often such discussions, we do not have enough and we do not take enough effective action. I think and one of the ideas is that we should actually take very effective steps towards environmental protection. I think that all the knowledge we have should be focused on how to live in symbiosis with nature and this is the only way that progress in this world can continue. I think that not only should we reduce greenhouse gas emissions be achieved as quickly as possible, but we should ensure that we no longer use any fossil fuels, no oil, no coal, no nuclear energy. We should prevent the genetic processing of food; we should prevent any interference with nature that is not normal. Only in this way will we ensure long-term coexistence and preservation of our planet. I say that, as well as our party, we strongly support such changes, and I hope that other politicians in the rest of the world will also be aware of the very important roles and responsibilities of our descendants in 50, 100, 000 years to live on this earth. We will therefore take and support all measures that will lead to improved environmental protection. We don't see this marriage as the real one. I think there's other ways to go. We support, of course, that, within the framework of the powers conferred on the State or the Government, it adopts certain sub-legislative acts in the direction of Article 39 of the Public Procurement Act. This would have replaced this proposal somewhere, as it was. Otherwise, I hope that proposals will come to our attention as soon as possible, which will further advance the protection of our planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Comrade Dusan Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, Vice-President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today I understand why so little or too little is done in this area. When I listen to those who have been dealing for a long time only with the comprehensive treatment of these problems, it's just a problem to do a little bit. And the response to the little cynical observation about the example that the applicants are supposed to have is very simple. Those who spend public money and not their own need to set an example from time to time. And in public procurement is one of the small moments, we can do that. In the Social Democrats' Group, we support the proposal of the law and its basic purpose, which is to prevent, in the light of fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, the possible irrational purchase of passenger vehicles for all contracting entities under the Public Procurement Act. We support the proposal that in the case of public procurement of passenger motor vehicles, the law favours cars that are less burdensome to the environment than comparable ones. Therefore, public authorities and local communities and other public procurement undertakings, which also buy more than a thousand cars annually, must implement measures that will reduce or at least limit greenhouse gas emissions and fossil fuel consumption. This measure would reduce air CO2 emissions by about 500 to thousands of tonnes. The current Public Procurement Act only lays down general rules for the preparation of public contracts and in no way prevents the purchase of motor vehicles with a relatively outdated technology to the taxpayers of the Public Procurement Act. Despite the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the draft law interferes with an area already properly regulated in the Republic of Slovenia, it is necessary to make it clear, and once again it is not clear that there is no concrete action that would be binding on those bound by the Public Procurement Act. Finally, this confirms the Government's explanation of why the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration when it says in several places that environmental and technical specifications can be applied, as well as environmental criteria, and that the Government cannot again prescribe that these criteria must be complied with and so on. So it's nothing binding. Which is not binding, and for those who are bound by the Public Procurement Act, it could be, it's a dead letter on paper. The legal framework for eco-sustainable or environmentally friendly public procurement was specifically laid down by the European Union in March 2004 with the adoption of two directives. We have also seen, heard and monitored the praises of the current President of the European Council, Janez Janša, who said how important it is that we have launched an ambitious, concrete and more modern cycle of the Lisbon Strategy for a better balance between people and the environment. We have taken a step forward in adopting this environmental and energy package, with particular emphasis on combating climate change. In Brussels, and at home in Ljubljana, this same government, led by President Janez Janša, has not yet issued an appropriate sub-legislative act which would otherwise be governed by the Public Procurement Act in practice. It can therefore be assessed that there is no genuine will and an excessive desire to regulate this area. And this is also the fundamental reason and purpose of the proposed law, namely to begin to achieve one of the strategic objectives of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union, which lists the reduction of environmental burdens and greenhouse gas emissions, the atmosphere and not only to stay at meetings, press conferences, where we boast about what would be good for people, but to do something concrete. In short, if the majority in the National Assembly supported this proposal, they would set a positive example for all citizens and adopt one of the first concrete measures in this area of so-called green public procurement in Slovenia. Let us at least now, as we preside over the European Union, be credible and correct with regard to the messages we give to all citizens of the Union in Brussels, so that we can do what we say and propose to others in Brussels first in our own backyard.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u42	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group or the Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u43	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! It is clear to you that the Law on the Limitation of Fuel Consumption and Emissions of greenhouse gases for purchased and leased motor vehicles by the state authorities will be further supported. In the Liberal Democracy, we support at all the basic purpose of the law, which we want to prevent, given the increasing fuel consumption and also the increasing quantities of greenhouse gas emissions, this irrational purchase of passenger motor vehicles for all contracting entities under the Public Procurement Act. Here I have to turn to all those who want to talk about an integrated law that is supposed to regulate all orders, and I fully agree with that, but I am also fully convinced that if you came with such a law before the National Assembly, there would certainly be someone who would like to arrange these matters in a partial way or say that they are already partially regulated in various other laws. All that we usually hear, with the Government preparing a better proposal, a more comprehensive proposal, in some way rejecting it, otherwise it would not make sense for us to speak here. However, if you wish, we can also address these issues from this city and this full mouth of words about reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which we are listening to, of course, the most exhilaratingly told right now at the time of the Presidency of the European Community, we are also becoming even less, say, influential projects, but on the other hand much more exemplary. After all, Slovenian experts and environmental experts could build energy-efficient and independent residences for the president of the country and for the Slovenian companies involved, if there is so much talk about it. I'm sure the government has that money. It would also be possible to find sponsors who would like to promote themselves in this way if, of course, I am allowed to talk here also about what is not the subject of this law. I think this idea would definitely run into a positive reception, unless something better is ready again. Well, we're going to this marriage. The draft law does not derogate from the other principles that were taken into account in the drafting of the Public Procurement Act. The law neither affects nor limits quality nor does it take account of the price of motor vehicles purchased or leased in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, but predominates fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, which is one of those mandatory elements to be taken into account in the preparation of the procurement criteria. The proponents say, from a civil initiative to parliamentary parties, which we have proposed, we are of the view that it is those who are bound by the Public Procurement Act who, when purchasing or renting motor vehicles, must enable competition for different suppliers and contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere and reducing the use of fossil fuels, while also encouraging the development of technology in this direction. It is true that this bill is only segmented into a small segment of green public procurement. But in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe in the parliamentary club that the government should also prepare systemic solutions to public green procurement. Some of this has already been done and is to be welcomed. It is covered by the Public Procurement Directives, but if we look at what it is like to be in Europe, we see that we are still going a long way back and that we are not acting in a very cost-effective and, of course, optimal way until these powers, of course, are limited resources. [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We will oppose the proposal of the parental committee that the law is inappropriate because it is considered appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr Ciril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, the representative of the government, the MPs and the Members. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proposed law, which would define additional criteria for the purchase or rental of state authorities' personal vehicles which are contracting entities under public procurement rules, is not acceptable and is not suitable for further consideration. In the New Slovenia Group, we are committed to reducing environmental burdens, sustainable use of natural resources, reducing energy consumption and increasing the use of renewable energy sources, and leaving and replacing unnatural substances. We are therefore also aware of the situation which we are uncontrolled in greenhouse gas production and that something will need to be done for a cleaner environment in this area. Mitigating climate change is the biggest environmental development challenge we are facing. If we do not intrude to the greatest extent on greenhouse gas emissions, it will be difficult to predict how the 21st century for human civilization will end at all. However, the draft law interferes with the area already adequately regulated in Slovenia in the Public Procurement Act, which explicitly stipulates that environmental technical specifications as well as environmental selection criteria can be used in public procurement. A regulation on the promotion of biofuels and other renewable fuels for motor vehicles was also adopted in November 2007. Also under the Public Procurement Act, a regulation on minimum conditions for energy efficiency of equipment, vehicles and buildings in the execution of public contracts is envisaged. For these reasons, we will not support the proposed law in the New Slovenia Group because we do not agree with the fact that this area would be governed by a special law because it is possible to resolve it with the Public Procurement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u47	Once again, hello to everyone. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware of the dangers of climate change and the importance of taking care of the environment. Many times we hear that it may not be too late to resolve the situation that we have accumulated ourselves, but the concern for the environment begins with each individual. As such, society cannot do enough if changes do not begin with each individual article. The draft law lays down more precisely the rules for the preparation of invitations to tender for the purchase or rental of motor vehicles and implements one of Slovenia's strategic objectives in the European Union, which lists the reduction of environmental burdens and greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. In the SLS Group like the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we believe that this area is already properly regulated. In addition, the Government has been given the opportunity to prescribe and publish environmental criteria for the purchase or rental of state authorities’ personal motor vehicles. In our view, it is not appropriate to duplicate the provisions, since the Government has already adopted certain measures in this area, such as the use of biofuels in public road passenger transport and in the public sector, where all indirect and direct users of state or municipal budgets, public institutions, businesses and the like are involved. In addition, in January 2008, the Government adopted provisions on public procurement in the framework of the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan, which will take into account environmental requirements, including public transport. Road motor vehicles are subject to the following energy efficiency measures: energy labelling of passenger vehicles, proportional taxation of road motor vehicles according to the ecological standard and energy efficiency of vehicles, green procurement for the purchase of energy-efficient and environmentally friendly vehicles. The final action target groups are the general public, companies, the public sector, professional and educational institutions and non-governmental organisations. The implementation of these measures is scheduled to take place between 1 January 2008 and 31 December 2016. It is clear that government policy has already set out similar measures as proposed by the drafter of this law, and therefore, in the SLS Group, we do not think it appropriate to lay down the same matter in the new law. We cannot support this bill for the reasons mentioned above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u48	Thank you very much. And in the end, not least the position of the Zalokar Orazem, Ambassador of the Zalokar Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u49	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Zares Group, as co-proposers of this law, we are extremely disappointed that the government and the ruling coalition have decided that the law will be rejected as inappropriate. In doing so, the argument is weak, unreasonable, poor. As you also say, the coalition parties' representatives, the law is supposed to regulate everything and there is no need to settle this matter until the end. We say the law only brought things in half. For there is an easy doctrine in it. And we know what it means to be able and what it means to be. I'm talking about what the contracting authority has to do. And that is the dictates of our law. Unfortunately, we can't let this go. Of course, this is a matter of deceiving, as contracting authorities in the public sector at this time have no tools and have no legal basis for choosing a more environmentally friendly product, for example, if it is more expensive. Therefore, they need clear technical guidance and criteria. This was also discussed by a government representative and, of course, we have heard again today that something is going to be done or that something is going to be done. We are happy to do so, and of course we hope that this is true. But unfortunately, we also wanted to warn by this law that it had not been done so far. These criteria and these technical instructions are not available in Slovenia. We have arranged this in the law for the area of passenger vehicles. Although the representative of the government has publicly acknowledged that they are unfortunately preparing this and we fear that the promise that will be made by the end of 2008 will be very difficult to achieve if we know what lies ahead in the coming months. Of course, we can also talk about excessive slowness and, in some ways, ignorance. We are full of mouths, vows, promises, even today, all of you have claimed, from all parties, that you support this in principle. We are full of good intentions and promises, empty words, but we are very modest in concrete actions and realistic options. While a number of countries have arranged this a long time ago, the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, the United Kingdom, etc., it is clear that these very countries have found that citizens cannot and must not only be puzzled, but must be set as a prime example as a state, as contracting authorities. With us, we have only done this honestly so far in the field of food. But the rest is still disorderly, easy and left alone to the case and good will of individuals, with few positive exceptions. While it should be fair to say that one such exception is also the Minister of the Environment using the appropriate vehicle. It is funny to hear the obvious that the law governs only a narrow segment with too little environmental effects. Yes, because everyone thinks only of big stories, the world goes where it goes. We have undertaken, we recognize, just one set of green public procurements. In doing so, we can see in practice many bad examples and inappropriate practices. If I mention only EUR 1.8 million worth buying eight luxury vehicles for the highest representatives of the Government, the so-called protected person, who was carried out as a secret procurement procedure for special equipment without environmental criteria and criteria. Today, we are looking at these vehicles in front of Parliament when they are waiting hours with their engines on fire for their users to be properly cooled. How poorly the government representatives understand the problem, the fact they state in their opinion also speaks. The segment should be properly regulated because the Government has adopted a regulation to accelerate the use of biofuels by speeding up the purchase of biofuel-driven vehicles. This is, to say the least, a completely outdated and completely inappropriate solution, respected colleagues and colleagues, because everything shows that the production of biofuels is not yet the most appropriate and dissuasive solution, because it has a whole range of traps and problems that we know so much about today. Green procurement in Slovenia has not yet become an example and a model of how to handle the whole range of public procurements. In doing so, the Government is not active enough, does not give and does not accept relevant sub-legislative acts as a basis for the application of this principle and is not an example for other citizens. It is obvious that they took the national action plan very seriously, which speaks of the need to regulate it by 2016. Obviously we will manage this in Slovenia with very small and very slow steps, and we want more ambition and speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u50	Thank you very much. We have ended by presenting the views of the groups. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is for the third time a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Road Traffic Safety Act, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. I'd like to inform you that we have 4 hours and 20 minutes of time available for this point. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. That's why I'm giving my word to the government's representative. Minister Zerjav, will you? The word is yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members! Recent discussions in the National Assembly have shown that changes in road safety are needed, which will ultimately mean only one small but important part of the measures for greater safety immediately tomorrow. Amendments to the law following the Resolution on the National Road Safety Programme are not just penalties. Changes also provide more safety for cyclists, those crossing the railway, pedestrians and other categories of participants. This week, one of the preventive activities under the parallel Road Safety Programme implementation plan for 2008 and 2009, under the heading "The Moment of Fragility". Fasten your life." Other preventive activities are also being prepared. We are aware that, in addition to the human factor, road safety is also very important in terms of vehicle safety, restricting the Kubatura of vehicles for young people, maintaining and improving road infrastructure, education, education, counselling, warning and so on. These measures, which are already being implemented in the European Union area, contribute to effects, as a rule, over the long term. It's just years from now. I believe that it is also necessary to consider in Slovenia the introduction of some of the above-mentioned measures, which have already been established and tested in the European Union countries. An example of improvements in road safety, France, which managed to reduce the number of dead by 35% between 2001 and 2005, with 1850 new radars and increased penalties. The proposed amendments to the law, which have been discussed since October when we submitted the law to the government procedure, already show an improvement, since the number of dead road users in this period has been decreasing virtually since November, with the exception of February. Dear Members and Members! The proposed law is amended in two articles in the second reading, in 34, where the first paragraph of Article 92 introduces a diction that is harmonised in the Proposal for a Law on Motor Vehicles, in order not to impose any difficulties in the transport of groups of children after the adoption of this Act, and in Article 106, the application for individual provisions of the Law on New Driving Licences is transferred to 1.10.2009. Of course, we cannot support the amendment of the SD Group of Members concerning the two-year suspension of the implementation of the provisions on the powers and use of the technical resources of the municipal editors, since the competent local community will decide on the use of these funds for its area. As for the other tasks of the municipal editors, traffic control, these are already recorded in the Law on Civil Society. And municipal officials are already training for these tasks. At the conclusion of the esteemed assembly, I propose that, due to the effects that we expect from amendments to the law, it accept this. I also propose that the esteemed assembly should adopt a decision to draw up and adopt, as a result of the amendments to date, an officially consolidated text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u52	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Mr Srečko Friend. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u53	Nice greetings, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The introduction of new repression will certainly not reduce the number of road deaths and will not address the transport problem as it is, but is reflected in poor infrastructure. Everyone who uses these roads knows that. Especially on state roads, the situation is catastrophic. If we were to speak in a technical language, we could say that we do not have administrative and technical conditions, in particular the emphasis on technical conditions, to carry out safe traffic. Of course, it is also difficult for the police to find in the parts of the municipal roads, although some of them drive between 7 and 8 thousand vehicles every day in 24 hours. It is true that the short-term effects that this law now foresees will be possible. A substantial increase in penalties for users or road users will bring some short-term results, not to say results. It's bad to talk about the number of dead, the results of less dead. Yeah, but that'll be a short-term effect. In the Slovenian National Party, we have pointed out that the situation on state roads is deteriorating, especially in terms of ensuring safe transport, throughout all mandates. But since I don't want to talk about half history, I'm going to focus on this mandate. On 16 August, we called on the Government to redirect the heavier transit cargo to the railways, then on 1 June 2005, then again because the response was unsatisfactory on 5 July, 3 October, 7 December 2007. Nothing. What do we suggest? We are proposing a set of solutions to focus the heavier transit cargo on railways and to systematically approach the real reconstruction of state roads. These roads are already a disaster in some regions of Slovenia. In 2003, we proposed to introduce, because we are a very transitive country through which more than 10,000 trucks arrive daily, a simple ecological tax, and this has not been heard. From this source, we could maintain those roads that we neglect the most and at the same time the truckers use them most. These are state roads. If we really wanted to increase safety and orderliness in transport, then the National Assembly would not have adopted an amendment in this law to allow for an increase in basic pressure and reduce penalties for truckers. This has been done to the pressure of the truck lobby in this House, despite the fact that many Members and Members have warned that this is not good. And yet you did. Therefore, I ask you, Minister, do not throw sand in the eyes of citizens and citizens when you speak of this law being good, that it will reduce road deaths and that it will contribute to greater road safety. That's not true. If they were intended to be clear and fair, then the state would have to cut into its pocket, as it is called, invest in the reconstruction of state roads, update this road infrastructure, which is destroyed and allowed under normal conditions, by ecologically normal conditions, to transport heavy transit cargo through Slovenia to other users of our road infrastructure. Austria has arranged this exemplaryly. If you go to Austria, you can see that in fact there is a legally heavier transit cargo diverted to the railways. Why can't we do that in Slovenia? That's what I'm wondering. Only an increase in the penalty, the subject and the follow-up of which is in this law, will bring no harm to citizens and citizens. The introduction of new repression also means actually new pressure, and I wonder if this is the primary purpose, whether we know anything else. If this is the basic purpose, then choose ladies and gentlemen, do this, me and the Slovenian National Party will not give consent, it is simply too cheap to buy a few radars, some new devices, send the police to the roads, of course only when the sun, God don't let anyone get wet when the snow and bad weather conditions are, you won't see any of the police on the road to control the speed and essentially regulate the traffic problem. That's when they're just gone. There are also no borders where we should control the border points and guard what is Slovenian. But when the sun shines, that's when everyone leaves. At all points, they can be seen and properly accounted for. I believe that Mr Transport Minister was right when he said that preventive action could be good. Then why did you end the world of prevention and traffic protection? He was suspended during this term of office. Why did it happen to you who say it's good to have preventative action and to raise awareness of people, but if you did it right here under this government's tactic? This also led to our having what we have today. We actually have better cars and worse roads. And if we look at these parameters that just don't go together, accidents are so much more if we know that countries don't care about bad roads, especially state roads. There's something else I'd like to point out. You are also very irresponsible in new constructions. You don't care about security and regulation when you're spending billions of euros. It's the tunnels. Today no one is responsible for this because it is not interoperable because it is not safe because it is not qualified for normal traffic, even though it is a highway section. Light inscriptions hang there: Drive carefully 60 kilometers per hour when the rain or 80 is the most when the weather is normal. Is that what you think is normal? Although the minister predicted that it would save the heads from flying there, none of this happened. It's still the way it is. Where did these millions go? Where did the billions go when we were talking about the tolars that you blew up so we had the highway scrape we had? Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, we will also destroy what we used to build with loans. Today, new motorways already have dangerous elements in their basic infrastructure base. Since the trucks that drive on the highways are few, we know that we are a transit country, that despite being not diverted to the railways, they work especially in the summer due to poor construction of the track, which are very dangerous in the first rain because they cause the so-called turbulence moment. But of course it's the Minister of Transport that I'm not going to say badly, the Minister of the Interior doesn't care. The punishments are important. All right, if this is the main cause of this law to increase penalties, introduce new additional repression in the country, then accept it. However, ladies and gentlemen, the Slovenian National Party will not give its consent to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u54	Thank you, too. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Lipa Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. Your Honors are here! Very briefly, given that quite a few or even too many words have been said about this marriage. When Members of the Lip Group proposed to increase punishment in certain areas of crime, such as in the area of sexual violence, for example, in what other area in the criminal code, half the government jumped to its head or rose and said, "No, the increase in punishment does not help to reduce a certain number of crimes." The Penal Code is one of the denials of the duality of government. This law is the second denial of the duality of government. I'm pretty sure there's no direct connection to the amount of punishment and death victims on the roads that are unfortunately going on. A man without a sense of steering will be left without a sense of steering even if the punishment is not known how high. An obsessive young driver will be hanged, no matter what the punishment will be. The law, as it is before us, does not take into account the social component, does not take into account the fact that people will simply not be able to pay those penalties, and the state will simply not be able to recover them. If we keep going, I'll say it like this. The same punishment you predicted for a driver, a professional chauffeur, as for an old mother when she went to the bike market. If this is the purpose of the law and if you support it, if you will, you will make so many stranger decisions than the one before us today. As far as the police are concerned, I would like to say that, if we want to achieve their effectiveness, we should first change the Police Act, allow normal working conditions, and possibly better road safety and their presence. I would like to mention one more matter in relation to this law, and these are Slovenian roads. I agree with those who say we work roads where we have a limit of 60 kilometers in tunnels and a highway, say Lendav - Maribor, which is built without a passport. All those who regularly drive on Slovenian highways can see why there are fatalities on Slovenian highways, Minister, and you will have to understand this for once. They're not just drivers. The roads are also guilty, and when we wanted to use certain funds in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to build or improve road infrastructure, this government simply overrun all the well-intentioned amendments of the opposition. Today it comes with one law that will not be enforceable. It's not a problem with the number of radars you're going to get. The important thing is that these radars will work. First thing. And another thing, from every man in this country, given the social situation in this country, you're going to have to get that punishment out of him. And someone who has 300 euros in fines or 300 euros in salary, but you will because they will drive too quickly across their village, they will ask for 1,000 euros, I apologize, or 600 euros, I don't know where you'll take it from. What are you gonna take from him? Even if the purpose of this law is to fill the state budget so that there may once be a real surplus in the budget, not unrealistic as you describe it today, you will not be able to do it on the account of taxpayers or on the shoulders of taxpayers because you have created such a social picture in this country that people simply do not have it. They can no longer pay basic taxes. Some punishments you'll be raising. If I can get back on Slovenian roads. This morning, I spent about 45 hours from Maribor to Ljubljana. This is not exactly the pleasure the highway should offer me, which I am paying to the full, regardless of how much you limit me to every ten kilometers. I don't know. It's written all over the road. What the hell if the roads are so good, we work on the road every day! I believe that all those who drive from the ministerial assembly, from the government assembly with their chauffeurs, are pleased to sit in the back seat and look out and say how well we do, see what's going on. The ones we drive alone, we just don't feel that way when we're standing in a column. Once again, the law, as proposed, does nothing else but raises penalties, nothing else. It does not allow better roads, does not allow better road infrastructure, does not go into prevention, does not raise young drivers, but only raises penalties and will not help to change anything on Slovenian roads. It's just that you just had to do it. But it's true that you didn't drastically impose penalties on professional drivers, I don't know, even for the auto-transport lobby that affected this government. You didn't do anything terrible to them, in some cases you even let them go. As I said before, you've been comparing them to when someone lifts a foot off a pedal - if you look at it, I think it's, don't hold me to the word, Article 133 of the law, which says that someone is punished with 10,000 tolars as a biker if he lifts his legs off a pedal. So if I drive across the meadow and run into a busy and real cop, he'll punish me if I lift my legs off the pedal. You gave the same punishment to the children's carriers. And if these are the things you want to accept, and if these are the things that will help a small number of victims on Slovenian roads, then choose, but without the votes of the Lipa Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u56	Thank you. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Branko Marinič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u57	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Honorable Minister with co-workers! Well, usually when we start out with one of the laws, some colleagues will immediately be circumcised with the fact that there is no minister. Today we could see that both the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Transport are present, because the Government and both ministers are probably aware of how serious the content is when we consider the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act. We have found that we have been doing this for almost half a year, that all the different experts, as well as civil society, are involved, and so are they. Those who today read to the government that she has done nothing in this area, of course, will skillfully wipe out all the good that has been done. For example, the Minister of Transport was replaced in this particular mandate because of the gravity of the transport situation. If we look at security on Slovenian roads today, we can find that this is still not satisfactory and the question is, which government and what will be the legal content that will make the end of the sea on Slovenian roads. Here I would like to share the positive opinion of my fellow Member, who has often advocated the fact that the Government should nevertheless take action and withdraw from the road to the rail freight transport. This is, you know, a process, an infrastructure that requires large financial resources that both the Government and the carriers are not yet able to provide, but I am sure that it is not so far away that this will happen. As far as road safety is concerned, the Republic of Slovenia is not satisfied. Member States are making different progress towards achieving the ambitious objective of the European Action Programme, with a view to halving the number of road fatalities by 2010. Nor can our country, the Republic of Slovenia, be a full member of the European Community. The efforts of all are great and evident on this path. If it was April 1st yesterday and we were able to fool ourselves at the expense of being one of the ministers, or even being alone in the local environment, local media mentioned that I would finally finish the order and cut the string on one of the important roads, which in no way gives satisfactory traffic results. Today is no longer April 1st, the death victims do not choose, just remember that April 1st on Slovenian roads also claimed his tax. And if we follow up with the measures that have followed, and that result in a short period of time, this evidence is more that, however, both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Transport or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are serious about this. On the basis of data on the comparability of transport security of Slovenia with the European Union countries for 2006, the Republic of Slovenia ranks 20th among the 27th members of the European Community, as it managed to reduce the number of deaths by only 8% at the end of 2006 and the average of the European Community is 22%. We are going towards this goal; to reduce the number of deaths and punish those who do this killing on Slovenian roads. The content of this law is not as rigorous in anything else as it is in determining fines, penalty points for those unknown drivers who cause the worst murder on Slovenian roads. These are, we have said many times, we ourselves know, unadapted speed, good cars, perhaps even the reasons in the unregulated Slovenian roads, in some parts, but as much as was taken care of and invested in road infrastructure in this mandate, so far. And it is these bridely drivers, wild and even public roads, who use highways for polygons, who cause the worst tragedies and seas on Slovenian roads, that we need to get on our toes. And this is the content of this law in those articles, when fines or penalties are increased, the number of penalty points increases. There's no other way. In some countries, as the proposer gives us opportunities in the bill, we can see that this is even more rigorous. The proposaler has not only taken care of the worst and we are speaking, but some of you are trying to talk mainly about the increase in fines and the increase in the number of penalty points, but also ignore the fact that in some cases the fines are being reduced. That's right, and this is some normal process in every normal country. The resolution on the national road safety programme for 2007-2011 together sets the goal of maintaining 600 lives by the end of 2011 or on Slovenian roads should not allow more than 124 road users to die. Is there anything more precious in any country than human life? Is it not eloquent enough that we are dealing with specific numbers here, Members and Members? Can you imagine 600 human lives, 600 human lives? It's one long, long passenger train. Or 124 human lives, which is one little train in this composition. And these are the objectives that dictate the pace of amending existing legislation. And what the proposer can do and does immediately on short notice to prevent this killing on Slovenian roads is what he offers us. Those who oppose this are opposed to maintaining the highest human values, or if you have an alternative, say, the government will accept it with open arms and hearts, because it is human life. And then make a real proposal to help the proposer preserve human life. On us Members and Members, however, there is only one fact that we are taking a proposal for a measure that proves, on the basis of expert analyses, that this is the only thing that can be done within a short period of time, which is based on practice, even on comparable and uncomparable European countries. Slovenia was one of the European countries that managed to reduce the number of deaths by 45% in the period 1995 to 2003. Why did I say that? It is also necessary to look back, and it is not true that nothing has been done in the past. I have just given this information on purpose, and I am, of course, trying to highlight the efforts of those who have also in the past to ensure that the number of victims on Slovenian roads is decreasing. Of course, it is true that road safety is also helped by regulated road infrastructure. It is also true that proper signalling helps to regulate road safety when they are on the roads of the site, and these are, as the fellow Member spoke before me, on the whole length of Slovenian roads. Why are there so many? Because, as I said at the outset, the Government has provided a great deal of these additional funds for the rehabilitation of the most dangerous parts of the road sections, which no longer provide some normal, average safety on Slovenian roads. And that's right. Also with regard to road safety at railway crossings. Here too, it must be pointed out that there are many casualties in the past. There have been many, but recently there have been positive trends and indicators in this direction that dictate the pace of accelerating these activities to ensure that road-rail crossings - either adequately secure or break down or shift more smaller road-rail crossings to one that will ensure almost 100% safety. It's either an underpass or an overpass. Nor can we here pass the fact that this very government, the Ministry of Transport in this composition, has taken care of the largest financial resources in the provision of public rail infrastructure, which also has a positive trend in the area of road-rail safety regulation. They disappear, they retreat, they operate for them, and in short, they are provided with greater security. We cannot help but overlook the fact that these concrete investments in public rail infrastructure, which, as a result, also have a positive security regime at the railway and road crossings, are being done at this particular time. On those parts of Slovenian railways that have been characterized in the past as the blackest points on the road-railways. One of these is certainly the largest investment in public rail infrastructure and all that is related to the safety of road-rail traffic through the crossings, namely the Prague-Ormož route. If he pointed out some of the main objectives, the main objective of amending the law is to reduce the number of traffic accidents with the worst consequences and to place in the law such supplements that have immediate, immediate and visible effects on the state of security. I have talked about this quite a bit, and I believe that the real effort in these areas is more than visible. This is not the case, once again, it is not about interfering with and raising penalties, fines, increasing the number of criminal points for those cases that are not so alarming. However, those requiring action, those requiring rigorous action must be punished, even with 200% higher fines than the law in force so far. However, the objectives that follow the proposed amendments to the law, which allow for more effective road safety and adaptation to EU directives, are the following, so that it is not just a matter of punishment and punishment alone. Consistency with Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 on driving licences, compliance with Decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia of 30.6.2005, by which the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found that Article 92, paragraph 8, of the Road Safety Act was repealed. And another indent, alignment with the Constitutional Court's decision concerning the delimitation of jurisdiction over traffic accidents with a minor threat. Well, and what I would like to pay particular attention to is all that we have discussed in this broad debate on the content of this law. Members and Members of Parliament have had the opportunity and opportunity to obtain relevant information, and in these objectives I have discussed, harmonisation with the Constitutional Court's decision in 92nd Article, where the proposaler is new, what we have not yet considered in 92nd Article wants and wants to protect groups of children who, in order to avoid what has happened in the past, are transported by means of means of transport that do not meet all the additional conditions, because we know that there have been some serious accidents in the transport of children. In the draft law in Article 34 or Article 92 of the Road Safety Act in force, the applicant also identified this taxive substance. In short, respectable colleagues and colleagues in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior to achieve those goals that are achievable in the short term and also some of the goals that we achieve over the longer term. The Government's efforts are to improve safety on Slovenian roads, but those responsible for the worst tragedies on Slovenian roads will finally step on their toes, although it is aware of both the proposaler and Members that this is not the final and only solution. I am convinced that in the area of improving road safety, in order to achieve much by improving public road infrastructure, public rail and other transport infrastructure, this is what the proposaler is working towards, and therefore, as I have already said, we are following and supporting the proposaler's efforts in this regard in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u59	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. I also welcome two Slovenian Government ministers in our midst, but I also have to conclude that they are present today in our midst for two reasons, absolutely unnecessary. Because the first reason we don't need them today is because they are not prepared to listen to any comments we make in Parliament regarding the Road Safety Act. The second is because drasticly high penalties will be reflected mainly in the work of municipal editors and in the work of mayors. Mayors and municipal officials will be responsible for the implementation of the extremely high penalties imposed by this law. And these are two reasons for citing or substantiating the conclusion that, in fact, today, the Minister could do another job and not be in Parliament. In fact, if we look at the history of the adoption of this Amendment to the Road Safety Act, we can see that the Transport Committee has rejected our proposal to make a public presentation of opinions on this law. We believe that the public presentation of the opinions was particularly justified for several reasons. It is certainly one of these to meet today with the proposal to impose extremely high penalties and there is absolutely no data on whether these penalties are also in line with the standard of living of most citizens and citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. On the other hand, penalties shall be reduced for legal persons engaged in the transport of cargo. These penalties are substantially reduced, and additional burdens on our public roads are allowed, which also means that the situation on state and local roads will deteriorate further. This issue is extremely broad and certainly requires a broader debate that could be held in public debate. And if we look at the following reasons for public debate. We have recently encountered a warning statement from bus operators who have operated the transport ministry for the sake of the fact that they have very uncomfortable conditions for public passenger transport today. The fact is that rail passenger transport is subsidised far and wide in Slovenia, and there is a great deal of delay in subsidising public bus passenger transport. And if we look at what has the greatest impact on road safety, it is certainly good public passenger traffic. And see if the government is willing to devote EUR 8 million only to printing vineyards during this period, or if this amount would not be significantly more effective if it were allocated to subsidising public bus passenger transport. Security on our roads would be greatly increased, the mobility of the population would be greatly increased and they would not throw 8 million euros away for the effect of two years. Because the impact of high penalties is known from history, so the effect is actually very short-lived, maybe one year, not more than two. This is something similar to the introduction of vinjets in Slovenia. Of course, we would save a lot of money, for from material damage to preservation of life is certainly much more valuable than introduction, for example, vignette. These are the proposals and reasons why the Social Democrats think we should really have a broader debate on this issue before we decide to impose in Slovenia such drastic penalties on drivers of passenger vehicles and also on all other road users. Because if we look at the analysis of the penalty raise, we can find that they range from 20 to 170 percent. And if we just look at the speed of the settlement, and over 20 kilometers up to 30 kilometers per hour is 500 euros plus 5 penalty points; it's a 100% increase in punishment. And if we look at the excess speed in the settlement, especially in those areas that are defined as calm traffic zones, and if that zone is, say, marked at 30 kilometers per hour or 20, it can happen very quickly that you go over 20 kilometers of that limit, you drive 50, you drive 40, the penalty will be 1,000 Euros plus 9 penalty points! However, who will take over the implementation of this penal policy, if I may call it, - it will be taken over by the editors, who will be given the authority under this law to control traffic both in settlements and on state roads. And taking into account the fact that 40% of all state roads go through settlements, it is an enormous burden for municipalities and also for the editors, mayors and all who will be responsible for the implementation of this repressive legislation. If we add to this the following fact that, in fact, each municipality can in its own way draw up the criteria on which it will implement this road safety law, we can talk about having 210 different ways of regulating the road safety law in Slovenia. This, I think, is the topic that deserves a wider discussion once again, whether it would be more appropriate to introduce a local police in Slovenia, which would be prescribed with the same standards for all municipalities, but not that each municipality would specifically negotiate and decide on how many editors, how many of them would be trained, where they would exercise control and when, finally, in some municipalities, they would decide that this supervision would be introduced. This issue is not resolved in this law, and it is possible that there will be no police officer or editor in the settlements, since the congregations simply do not have enough to implement this law, as it is now written down and should be accepted by the National Assembly. Therefore, we also propose an amendment proposing a 24-month delay in the implementation of the editorial service in the control of road traffic in settlements. We believe that a two-year period is the one in which issues of cooperation and action can be resolved, both by police officers and village editors, and that we will also find out what costs are needed to ensure that the municipalities obtain appropriate equipment, since the radars in the settlements are the cost of municipalities, not the state. This law is not guaranteed by the euro, and I wonder how long the municipalities will be truly able to provide equipment that will enable us to effectively monitor traffic in settlements. I stress, but it is also a matter of state roads where this traffic is the most frequent, most demanding and where, of course, the biggest accidents occur. There are no answers to these questions in this law. Perhaps we will go through the debate today, and because both ministers are here, they have also tried to win, but I seriously doubt that, because that was not the case during this period. That is why I can also say that we will not support this law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u60	Thank you very much. My colleague, Aleš Gulič, will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellows and fellows! Both ministers, hello! Well, I, by contrast, think it's useful that ministers are at meetings of the National Assembly when it comes to their laws. Today, I even miss Mr Bajuk, because with a substantial part of this money that will be collected on the roads, he will patch up his holes and his holes at the time of the adoption of the tobacco law, if not the other. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we do not support the proposal of this law, because it seems to us that too many citizens and citizens are solving some of the problems that are very pressing. Such an attempt to increase the penalty has already been made in this mandate. And what happened? Nothing or so, the traffic situation is even worse. When it began to talk about changing the Road Safety Act, I was counting on us to go into something more modern, into what, in particular, will lift this preventive part and preserve already on the verge of an acceptable penal work. Well, we've actually gotten again just some correction or a new tariff rule if I just briefly label what's most noticeable. This law has already been exaggerated in one way or another and has, in fact, become very opaque with all these additions. Now I don't know what letter we're in, but I think it's already a sixth novel of this law, from there, in 2002. And it would be worth considering that this law would break down into at least three laws, such as the Road Traffic Act, the Driver Education Act and the Drivers Act, which would then be much clearer and more transparent to determine all these obligations. At the same time, we have a number of sub-laws that say something else and not even those who should be able to read, take into account and present to interested parties, cannot, say, what kind of sub-legislative act, the National Approval Regulation. It's causing problems all the time. Well, we're going to this marriage. The main changes it brings are stricter punishment for drivers of non-professionals and goods for professionals. Wrong world! It is common for those who are expected to have more knowledge to take more into account the situation in question, so that, of course, they may also take a closer look at it. But no, there's always something in the back of us or a group that then abuses it, or someone is in such a corrupt position that they have to do something or something like that. The additional imposition of foreign sanctions is linked to an increase in the number of criminal points, which can then bring more people in a very complex situation in due course. In particular, the legislature or the bill-maker did not take into account all that is happening on Slovenian roads. I mean not only those who violate road traffic regulations, but all those who are involved in traffic. The number of daily migrations in Slovenia has soared in recent years that traffic density is also significantly higher, and this is likely to lead to a higher number of accidents and the flow rate is not better, but worse. The great hopes brought by the newly built highways have collapsed to nothing, but the slump is not the result of construction rallies. And if the flow of the highway fell below 60 kilometers per hour, then this is certainly not a question that concerns those who, say, are potential road traffic violators, but just anyone who would like to come from point A to point B at some appropriate time. Let's not talk about the big swings in the flow. If we look at the state road that runs along the Sava, then we see that swinging at 50 kilometers is such that the average speed moves from 23 kilometers per hour to 70, which is, of course, completely abnormal and requires a completely different way of driving and reactions to traffic conditions. If I say so at home, you have to get up two hours before you get up, if you go about 6:00 in the morning from point A to point B, or if you go at 8:00 in the morning, it's the right kind of thing. The law will or would have a bright future if, at its reception then, we acted differently after receiving it than we did at the last change. But given how you're always hustling, that the cops are too small, that there might not be enough of them to put on the road, that there is no money for a denser network of radars and so on, then I don't really see any light point at this change of law, maybe a month of little fear, then everything will be old, because obviously the radar will be gone, the police will be on the road, and the problems will be objectively staying the way they were and there and there will be someone so punished that they will be angry with us and the whole world. I would like to know why the proposed law has not embarked on a Finnish model, a model where the penalty is linked to the offender's income. Why didn't this happen, because then in some way we would have a more personalised amount of punishment, because I think it's much smarter and one person doesn't push from one social group to another. These penalties, as are now envisaged, are draconian, that's too much. I know that some of them are compared to fines in other countries, but in other countries these penalties certainly do not mean as much income as in Slovenians, but it must be reckoned that those who are most closely linked to day migration usually deserve the least and may be penalised if they are entrepreneurs, in fact an intervention into the substance, if private individuals are a severe burden on the family budget. I'm sure you can reduce the number of accidents on our roads in a different way. There are many other options for both ministries, and it is not just necessary to serve a third minister who is not here at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u62	Thank you very much. However, colleague Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u63	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished by the Minister with his fellow Members, I welcome you! Tragic and sadder that it can no longer be is the overture of today's third reading of the Road Traffic Safety Act. Yesterday at one road stop, three dead. Cause of inappropriate speed and extortion of advantage. This is how we read on the front pages of Slovenian journals today. Dear colleagues, allow me at the outset my personal assessment of the debate, which took place for several hours on the home working body in relation to the law for which we are conducting the third hearing. I view the debate as extremely positive. There wasn't much politics, much less politics. Our common concern was how to limit accidents with the worst, that is, fatal outcomes. This is also the focus of this novel law on how to limit accidents with the worst fatalities. This is certainly a thorny topic and a nightmare for this National Assembly, as we have adopted a resolution in this House on the national road safety programme for the period 2007 to 2011, which we have subtitled together for greater security and put in place on vision 0. But after all, last year we had 293 deaths on our roads. If we look statistically, if we look at this cold statistics, eight tenths of us died every day on our roads or so, every 30 hours last year we had one fatality on our roads. It's a drama. If it weren't, that's my personal claim, this dramatic situation last year, there certainly wouldn't be this novelty of law. I claim that the law is not of a systemic nature, and the law wants to remedy in the shortest possible time what it can or can provide for greater safety on our roads. There's something else I'd like to say. This Government or this coalition has committed a record amount of funds within three years in order to eliminate the most dangerous points in the road rail system and also other points called black points. When we discussed and were familiar with the signalling in road construction sites in Slovenia on the Transport Committee, we had a comparative study which showed that our signalling on Slovenian roads is significantly better than in neighbouring Austria, which we like to compare with many times. I would like to thank the Minister for Transport, my cousin, for giving immediate impetus to the installation and functioning of railway prisons, which have already seemed to never work, immediately after his appearance. I would like to say something else, and this is that this amendment of the law is a qualitative follow-up to the fundamental objective, and this is how to reduce the worst traffic accidents by measures that would have immediate effects. Today we do not have time to talk about how transport culture needs to be improved in Slovenia; we all know that.; how to start with this culture already in kindergarten, primary school and then with education throughout life. This task is yet to be accomplished and will never be carried out. Perhaps I would even attach it to those who say it's a stupid government that comes a few months before the elections with a law that raises penalties. Some of the opposition types have even developed this law further and have derived from this law the slogan "Slovenia - Repressive State". I am sorry that it seems that in Slovenia there is no longer an old Slovenian traditional saying "Shiba New Massa Sings". Of course, we don't mean to kick anybody's ass, but sometimes we have to say, "No! You can't do that, it's forbidden!" Just one example, if you'll excuse me, from my private life, when I was in Canada ten years ago visiting my relatives, my cousin put us in a boat, we drove down Lake Ontario, and we fished. There was a large number of fishing rods in the container, but we were only hunting with two, despite the fact that there were six people in the boat. And I asked him why we don't hunt with more sticks and he said, "No, it's forbidden. For this boat with only two sticks, or they can take my boat, I'll pay up to 20,000 Canadian dollars in fines, and the car I brought this boat to the lake will be able to take me." So, in this case, every Canadian citizen is crystal clear. So this isn't going to work, we're not thinking about the election results this year. It's about actually doing something in a sincere desire for greater road safety. As regards support for this law of the New Slovenia Group. We will implement the final decision in the course of this third hearing, but unfortunately I cannot fully ensure the full support of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished representative of the Government, colleague and colleague! I hope that the Minister of Transport will last until the end of the meeting, according to the instructions and recommendations of some, that they have nothing to look for here and that they probably have some other useful work to do. Another thing I'd like to say. When I listened to the debate that was taking place, I did not know whether I had confused the agenda or whether some of the colleagues representing the views of the groups. I thought that I was at a meeting where we were adopting the budget and a chapter on the maintenance and reconstruction of state roads, then to discuss the highway programme, to discuss the law on municipal registrarship and so on. But then I went to look again, and I found that the 11th item of the agenda is the Bill of Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Safety Act. Next thing you know, I'll tell you what. The majority of those who represented the views said that the law only imposed repression. I've gone a little deeper into this law, and I find that it introduces everything but repression. Some have also mentioned this, we introduce or implement a directive of the European Union into our legal system, by means of this law we take into account two decisions of the Constitutional Court relating to road safety, thirdly, we introduce the translation of tolars into the euro and, lastly, if we have taken a good look, it not only raises the law, but also reduces certain threatened penalties for certain offences. Next thing you know, I'm gonna say. Any law that provides for a measure will be able to live in its full content if it is supervised. Personally, I am somewhat lacking in assurance of this in this law. Third. To not only talk about sentencing, I propose that those who have spoken only of repression should read paragraphs 22, 24, 25, 32 and 34, which also speak of certain conditions, who, what, how must be arranged to enable safe traffic. Next thing you know, I'd like to say about this introduction. To say that accidents cause only bad and poorly maintained roads, dear God! Let's take a look at some statistics, and we'll find that more than 30% of traffic accidents with fatalities are caused by drunk drivers. The next approximately 30% of accidents cause excessive speed. I think the state of the road is only in the fifth or sixth place on the list of these sad statistics, which have resulted, as one of my colleagues said that every 30 hours one life goes out. Unfortunately, there were 46 children in these lives, too, I think, last year. So much for that part. Now to what I wrote down and what I imagined I would say in the third reading only on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group. We all know that the situation in the field of road safety in Slovenia is not improving, so there are many changes that need to be made, and some today we are also witnessing the third reading of this law. This is also confirmed by the increasing number of injured and dead in traffic accidents on our roads. In the Slovenian People's Party, we still insist that problems need to be found in the lack of culture in road transport, which makes us Slovenians careless and nervous drivers. We believe that training for road participation is the one who should teach new drivers the right attitude and responsibilities not only to themselves, but especially to other road users who are usually given these carelessness or nervous driving. When we compare Slovenia with foreign countries, we quickly find that people there have a different, in a sense a more respectful attitude toward other road users. They are more aware of the fact that road transport is largely responsible for other road users. Slovenians also have a completely different attitude towards road transport on foreign roads. Most of us are thus starting to respect the road rules of our neighbours at the border crossing, and there we do not wonder whether we have 450 euros in wages, or 2,500 euros. Where is the reason why we don't do this on our own roads? Whether this is threatened or even enforceable, greater control over compliance with regulations or limitations, let us answer individuals. In our view, we should concentrate much more on new drivers, which also cause a lot of speed-related accidents. Much more needs to be done in the direction of their education and learning of the already mentioned culture in transport, where auto schools at the moment, I am sure, do not give enough. The driver’s license for young people or new drivers is too much equal to the knowledge and well-known problems that may occur when using a passenger vehicle in traffic. However, I know that from exam to experience, many years must pass and many hours on the roads must happen, great unpredictable situations that make us miserable for good drivers. We believe that the bill will contribute to significantly greater safety in traffic, as it increases fines and the number of criminal points, especially for God-awful offences, such as driving across the opposite lane on motorways, excessive speeding, alcohol and the like. These two measures are supposed to have the greatest effect on security, because we are the most vulnerable people when someone hits us hard in the pocket. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group therefore advocate an increase in the fines for these offences in particular. As I mentioned earlier, safety in traffic is not just a matter of drivers, but of all participants, especially children. The draft law lays down strict conditions for the transport of a group of children, including, inter alia, specific preventive checks on vehicles as well as drivers. The bill and all those involved in road transport will have to strive to achieve the same goal, to reduce the number of road fatalities. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group are working primarily to change their attitude towards traffic safety we will have to strive to achieve the same goal of reducing the number of road fatalities. The members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group are working primarily to change their attitude towards transport safety. We want to increase our awareness that each ride is a great responsibility to ourselves, especially to others. Speeds, the real cause of accidents, should all be aware, especially of our young drivers or drivers with short driving skills. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the road safety law is, in our opinion, a good basis and points to solutions in the right direction, so the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support it. However, it will depend on every driver in our country as to how much he will contribute to his or her success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u66	Thank you. Mr Aloise Posedel will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Group of Members, we are deeply aware of the importance of road safety and we are also aware of the fact that this security is inappropriate, unsatisfactory and that we are aware that the number of vehicles is constantly increasing and that this security will be worse in the future. That is why we considered much of our time, energy at the time of the debate in this law, that this law would be better than we will obviously adopt it today in this House. And in this awareness the meaning of every human life is inappropriate and unacceptable for one of the ruling parties to allow himself to ask this speaker if it is even more important than human life and to rule out that those who oppose this important law are against this greatest human value. In the Group of Ambassadors, human life is of great value, especially human life is what we must and must be provided by the Government and the State, and that is why the Government must take measures, laws in all areas relating to human life and therefore, a colleague who wondered whether this debate meant any mix and confusion in the agenda: no. This law on road safety is precisely the law that affects all the areas that have so far been presented in the debate in the presentation of the parliamentary positions of the groups of Members and that many of them have not been exposed, because obviously the Government is not yet aware of how this will affect relations in the family, relations in the environment and how this law will be reflected in general life. We are convinced that this debate, which was so important at the time of the adoption of the law, was too short, we have warned in the debates, we want a broader, public and additional professional debate to take place, but this has always been voted on or assessed that it is not necessary. That is why we believe in the Group of Members that this law is bad and that it is particularly important that the law is respected and that it will be effective if citizens and citizens respect it, but not that they fear it, and that is precisely the greatest weakness of this law, that it bets on this drastic increase in punishment and that it completely or to a very large extent ignores what is most important in the field of transport security, namely, education, transport culture and that we are obviously missing from the Slovenians. Today and in previous discussions, some even boasted about how they drive differently abroad and how they drive differently in this Slovenia. But this only increase in punishment will not change. It would take a lot of training. Additional education would be needed. But it takes a lot of time, a lot of knowledge, and a lot of resources. Indeed, in the Group of Members, we have proposed not to increase the penalty so drastically as to give more weight to that part of the additional penalty with the points and, as a result, the re-examination of the examination, which means one of the forms of education and re-education for these drivers. I am convinced that the relationship that has been set up is inappropriate that in the debate a comparison has often been given as to how the current penalties are comparable to those abroad. And never any comparison of how our average wages in Slovenia are incompatible with wages abroad. And this imbalance - we are sure - will cause additional problems in everyday life. And when we witnessed this truly drastic increase, which sometimes exceeds the multiple of the average Slovenian salary or pension, we witnessed, on the other hand, quietly and inconceivably, the discharges they receive in the field of self-transportation. And this is for owners, less drivers, but employers, and it's unacceptable in the face of a situation that rules in the field, how freight traffic is not controlled in the neighborhoods, how it is not controlled and not controlled by peaceful traffic. Load all this burden in this Law to municipal officials. And if at this point the state is not capable. I almost can't believe I wouldn't want to buy about 250 needed radars, provide a larger number of police officers, then how can this be carried out in all 210 municipalities? The issues that arise are and can be very quickly checked how this will then be carried out in every environment or not. And that we will witness an even greater mess that reigns in this area today, and that this is a very great responsibility imposed by the municipality to local communities again with an old pattern without additional funding or providing them for the future. Also, if additional financial resources are provided, I am sure that there is not enough interest in the field for this service. Experiences in those municipalities or environments where they have already begun implementing this regulation are such that this should be a great signal and a warning to the government that we will face even greater and more difficult problems in this area. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we really believe - with all due respect for the good and fair intentions of the Government, both ministries, to improve transport safety. I am convinced of the great and sincere desire to reduce the number of deaths, not least that we all wish it was unacceptable to mention those who will vote against such a law, that we are against the greatest human value, life. I think there are quite a few Members who have a lot of experience in their family. However, in the event that the law is considered to be bad, it is necessary to vote against it. And in the Group of Members, we will indeed vote against such a law. In doing so, we are very sorry that it has not listened to the calls of other parliamentary groups in order to extend the debate, in order to prepare the law more professionally and in particular in order to be more lively and better than this. So, once again, we will not really support this bill in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u68	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! The primary purpose of the proposed New Road Safety Act is to reduce the number of traffic accidents with the worst consequences or to reduce the number of extinguished lives of road users we are witnessing to today. Statistics are unforgivable. The national road safety programme, which envisions half the fewer road fatalities by 2010, is all the more so than on the road. The data are, we can say, shaking and pointing to an extremely critical situation in this area. Therefore, it is high time to take measures that are supposed to be more effective in preventing the plague on our roads. One of the measures is also a novel that is being considered in the context of the third reading of the legislative procedure today. In the DeSUS Group, we must admit that we were extremely critical at the beginning of the novel. In both the first and the second readings, we have pointed to a number of inconsistencies, ambiguities in the proposed provisions, their inadequacy both from a nominal technical and a substantive point of view. Nevertheless, we considered that the word "suitable" was the basis for further proceedings. Turns out we made the right decision. In view of the anomalies of the proposal, most of the proceedings were duly amended. So now we have clearer and more appropriate solutions. However, as regards the public's most receptive change, this is a more stringent punishment for infringements of road traffic rules, which are the cause of the worst traffic accidents, for example: over speeding in the village, aggressive transportation, stopping and stopping vehicles, driving under the influence of alcohol and drugs, and dangerous overtaking of DeSUS Members is a little skeptical that it will really help to respect road traffic regulations in a more consistent manner and thus increase safety. We also believe that this is confirmed by a number of studies that drivers only adhere to the rules for a short time after the increase in sentences. Then everything goes back to the way it was. We are convinced that more attention must be paid to the appropriate training of drivers, which will affect the improvement of transport culture, responsibility and tolerance in transport. In particular, in order to increase safety and reduce traffic accidents, you have decided on appropriate and sufficient frequency of control and satisfactory punishment and effective recovery. In the DeSUS Group, we will fully support the proposal for amendments and the completion of the Road Safety Act. We also support the amendments of which we are signatories in the hope that these solutions will actually help reduce the number of road accidents and consequently reduce the number of extinguished lives of road users in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u70	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a debate between Members and Members, first of all on the draft law as a whole. Mr. Pavlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members. A man is no longer a wolf man, but a Slovenian is a Slovenian driver. What can we do? The proposal stems from the assumption that higher and stricter penalties will reduce the number of victims and injuries on our roads and contribute to greater security. Oh, what would you have done to hold that claim? But I'm afraid only repression won't stop the deadly mess on our bloody roads. We've heard something about black statistics. But it's only right that we're always stressing this information. Do you know how many people die on world roads every day or every year? A million 260 thousand people die a year on world roads, a day of at least 3450. Injured is about 50 million a year. Five million remain permanently disabled. In the European Union, this number is about 41 000 a year. In 2001, this number was even 50,000, 2 million injured. And here we are: from 1954 to 2007, 22 thousand 513 people died on Slovenian roads. This is for a great congregation called Piran. Of that, over 6 grand at the time of our independence. All of this points to the need that we may appeal to the Council of Europe, to the European institutions and, of course, to the domestic authorities to consider the introduction of the new human right of the 21st century - the human right to safe transport. At the recent assembly of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, we were able to make sure that it is not unusual to introduce new rights. Of course, under the assumption that so far written down, which are part of natural law, we respect. We have proposed the introduction of the right of man to access drinking water and the right of man to access sustainable energy. If I compare the right to safe traffic with the bloody numbers that I have listed, it seems to me that the human right to safe transport is at least as important as those two. Well, even with a bit of legal gymnastics, we could already extract such a right from the Constitution. If we look at Article 72, which defines the right of people to a healthy living environment, we can say that this right also includes, in a broader sense, the right to safe transport. And the other part, which is written in this article, is particularly important. It is the constitutional duty of the State to care for a healthy living environment. And a similar philosophy should also apply in the field of road safety. Maybe a layman doesn't need a trifle, a worry. But a word of concern is more than protection. The word worry includes preventive, curative and repressive measures, which, as a whole, must not only preserve a condition but also improve it. The EU vision is to halve the number of deaths. Even in the logo, the number 25 000 appears, which to me - nicely said - seems immoral. How can we say that our vision in Slovenia is 150 victims per year? Does this mean we're agreeing to 150 victims? I know it doesn't sound utopian. But we always set higher goals so that we can achieve lower goals. So I insist that our vision is still nothing. And that's what we wrote in the Transport Policy proposal in 2004. If we briefly address the three components of concern, we can find that in the early 1990s, better roads reduced blood taxes. Then it stopped. And lately, due to the renewal of roads, due to special technologies, we can see again the poor functioning of infrastructure. Let me mention just a few accidents and, last but not least, the Minister knows the situation in some of our tunnels because of the wrong foundation. I also argue that better public passenger transport could have an impact on better road safety. Several times today, resentment has been expressed over the abolition of the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council or its drowning in the Roads Directive. I believe that this world should be transformed into a special agency because of an extremely sensitive and worrying problem. How many state authorities do we have in areas that are significantly less important than road safety? We didn't shut them down. I think the country here is saving in the wrong way. As an example of a good civil initiative, I would like to mention the Institute's safe path, which introduced, among other things, the World Day of Remembrance of Victims of Traffic Accidents. On November 18th, it was announced for this day and has a positive impact with its preventive action on our youngest participants in particular. I would also suggest, in the context of the prevention, that mandatory work be introduced for perpetrators of worse crimes in rehabilitation centres or hospitals where such perpetrators could be confronted with paraplegics, tetraplegics and other seriously injured persons. I think that such work would have a greater preventive effect than, for example, the images of broken cars or accidents themselves. Well, last but not least, the media can play a bigger role here, not by singing the perpetrators of crimes, which, from 250 kilometers per hour, are on our roads, but by their public condemnation. And also administrative authorities can have a positive impact on our behaviour in a similar way to that of the Ministry of Transport with ads. I think the Ministry of Transport deserves to be commended. For some of these ads, which relate to speeding or slower driving, are fastened to the seat belt and so on. They deserve to be commended. I think they're particularly positive for our youngest. With regard to the curative, let me point out only one problem - I have already talked about this when we had a general discussion - namely, rescue cars. It is too often that ambulances are operated or driven by paramedics, not by highly qualified drivers. It's about saving up. I think it would be just the opposite. A number of accidents, unfortunately, have occurred, especially in Primorska, when rescue vehicles were found in major accidents due to insufficient know-how of rescuers, of course qualified to rescue, not for driving. It would be ideal to drive one and save the other. But if it doesn't work out, then the driver has to be more of a driver than a lifeguard. Well, we could also include all-round assistance to the victims under the curate. To those who survive, and also to their relatives. Both in a spiritual sense and a social one. For these are the people who can be forever marked, who must make a substantial change in their lives and suffer that we cannot yet think how. Well, finally, repression. Here, valued colleagues and colleagues, I once again expose the problem or actual effectiveness of general and special prevention. That's what we were taught in the second year of Law School in the case of Kazen Law, which is one thing, what's another. Each sentence should have a first general preventive effect. Which means that a criminal criminal will have an educational demotivating effect on potential other perpetrators, if we do, we will act more cautiously so that neither will we with a driver's license, so that we don't get too many penalty points so that we don't have to do the exam again. And special prevention is supposed to have a positive impact on the criminal. So, since he was being punished, he won't be violating any more in the future. At least in criminal law, both forms of prevention have proved that they are not as effective as a person would suppose. Thus, a relatively weak correlation is between repression or punishment and efficiency or better behavior of the perpetrators. There is a lot of reference in theory to the case of the public hanging of pickpockets, thieves. In Britain, when the number of robberies increased significantly during the execution. For while they condemned or executed fellow believers, their colleagues took advantage of the crowd and used the pockets of all the viewers for general or special prevention. At the time of the debate, which, after my assessment, was good on the Committee, in black without any special effect, at least as far as the many amendments of the opposition are concerned, we talked about some concrete comments. Let me mention here only my deep disagreement that those who should respond more strictly, such as employers or as Mr Gulic said to professionals, are being reduced. I also cannot agree with the extension of the obligations of the municipal editors, as well as certain specific articles or additions that I will no longer talk about. For example, a balance sheet for some of the worst violations. And I could count it. Allow me to finally read just one thought, which is written in the instruction brochure of the Ministry of Transport, the Council for Road Traffic Prevention and Education, which now exists in the form of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia, shows what we should all place at our own threshold. He says, "The child observes our behavior and tries to imitate it. Let us set a good example for him, not just when we try to teach him the most urgent traffic rules. Still, on the walk, on the way to kindergarten, on a bike or in a car." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u72	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that. Very well greeted, representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. There are many good proposals in the proposed law that we have in the third reading that will certainly affect better road safety. These are, last but not least, the alignment of the requirements with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Preventive Children, child protection and the like. However, a lot of words stopped around the height of the sentence. I think we need to discuss this. First of all, not everyone who commits offences or commits misdemeanors by unconscious drivers. That should be ruled out. But who causes the most terrible disasters, even in the last few days we have had a chance to see? Will these measures, with these amendments, affect young Japs with higher penalties, to which money means nothing? Will we influence them to stop acting that way? The second category of people who are just as angry with us, namely, I do not specifically point out nationality. But these are Roma, because it's simple - punishment cannot be recovered. Have we thought about what instruments we might have to get to them with alternative penalties? What my fellow Member, Mr Pavlich, has said. For those who say they don't have money, that they don't have a registered car, they don't have an exam, they don't have anything, they don't cause accidents to others. Wouldn't such a measure be appropriate for you?Oh, my God! Yeah, what about the road racers? Exactly. Will these measures prevent this from happening among young people? That's actually how you do it when you make a law. Will these measures really prevent the worst things? These accidents that are happening, three fatalities. It's not like someone broke a 20-mile-an-hour speed in a place like this. No, no, no. It's about extremes. It's about extreme behavior. The principle of proportionality must be taken into account. What does that mean? Now, if you claim that a 100% increase in the sentence would reduce 60% of the deaths, I suggest a substantial increase in the sentence. Essentially. Not just as much as you are now. Like, 1,000 euros. But to get them up again. If that's the contagion, if that's the addiction. If you've proved it, if you have evidence, then I'll vote for it. If you don't have this, then I suggest you stay on the same level and recover them. And there's something else about these punishments, about these speeding things. It happens to drivers, purely solid drivers, to overlook such signs. If you look at how these ads grow along the roads like mushrooms in the rain, you can't figure out where the sign is anymore. It happens, I tell you, with perfectly solid drivers, sober ones who don't break, they'll miss it. Well, as far as these officers are concerned, we know that there's a 50-hour-an-hour limit on the four-passenger parts. When you think and adjust your speed and say, this would probably be a suitable speed of 60 to 70. They're putting themselves in those places. Do you find police controls in places where a lot of accidents have happened?Oh, my God! On dangerous sections, on troubled sections?Oh, my God! I haven't figured it out yet. Maybe it's you, because maybe I'm driving too little. But that's one way of finding out. So those penalties that are now entirely proportionate to Europeans. And some other things that are in marriage are quite appropriate. It's a good approach you've taken. That is why I think that these debates are, and it is right that and that such debates should also be heard.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u74	Thank you. Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again a nice greeting to the Minister who insists! Every human life, respected colleagues and colleagues who shut down on Slovenian roads because of the "infringement of the country" because we have such infrastructure as we have, is the reason for us to seek responsibility. Every one. If we're talking about one year in 365 days, one class of kids dying on the road, then something's wrong with our traffic safety. It's just not okay. Children are really not to blame. Before I listened to my colleagues’ stupidity - I will not call them not to say that they have the opportunity to replicate - that it is to shift the heavy transit cargo to railways, which would significantly improve environmental security in Slovenia. Because we know what we're doing on the roads. Slovenia, if we look more closely, is only a water catchment area. She's very beautiful. It is good that it is as intact as it is that it is not more ecologically threatened, given that the transit cargo is increasing and that it would significantly reduce road deaths if they did. It doesn't cost us anything. The previous minister promised us that. The current minister forgot about it a little bit. I would like to see a novelty of this law, this proposal, this order that I would take to the National Assembly, and let it be copied for the Austrians as well, and tomorrow we can bring it into our daily lives. The railway has options, and we've already done this, and later, the pressure of the trucks put it off. And it can introduce regular, so-called training trains that will bring this large number of trucks from point A to point B or to the eastern border, where they can then also go along the road, because of me. But we just don't want to do it. We also allow and watch every day the rush, the truck on the highway. Which, I believe, is what eats up a lot of people's nerves. And there is, in fact, some kind of threat to traffic safety. The police don't act. There's nothing the police do on the highways. On state roads, if it's a good weather, we find a cop. Otherwise, they prefer to place themselves at a buffet or in a transparent resting - place where they can, if they eat good and drink good, simply do their duty there. I would point out once again that if we were to pursue only criminal policy, we have done nothing. You compare this to Europe. You're talking about the penalties in Europe. We Slovenians don't have European salaries! What, though, will we do if we increase our fines, if we increase our penalties, but if we find that some people are unable to pay and take all rights into their own hands? The speaker in front of me was talking about gypsies. That's a better expression for me. This is an absolutely privileged company with us. They don't pay taxes, they don't register cars, so I don't say what else they can afford. And if I compare this talk with the law that deals with the essence of a foreigner, and look at these fines in this law and compare essentially this restrictive criminal policy in the Road Safety Act, yes, gentlemen, because you've actually lost your reality. She's gone. This is where you went to heaven. In foreigners who are "smuggling" people who are involved in prostitution, who can in fact make criminal connections from society, you have minimal penalties. Shame! And there's something else I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary-General. I appreciate your diligence and also your efforts. I have to say, that's something to detect. Let me know what's going on with the so-called gas tolar. One billion and 600 million U.S. dollars. Data is only available until 2002. Then you took that away. I don't know why. Not you, but it was withdrawn. We couldn't get that information anymore, it was collected that money, spent 75%, it says in the record. Where's that money going? But that's a huge amount of money. Why don't you put that money on state roads that are so neglected? And if we're going to divert freight traffic - what's going on now, to highways, some of you are also saying it's a necessity - we're going to destroy these highways too. Because the users of these services can be seen today that highways are already overcrowded. Will we start building a new highway section tomorrow, a new highway cross? And one more thing. Your performance in this mandate spoke of transparency, ensuring legality in the use of funds in the construction of motorways. And I wonder, what will happen to those who have worked in a bad way? Errors only now appear to be coming to the surface. I'm talking about highways. In particular, in the case of the Troyan tunnel, the Slovenian company performed this work. The mayor from Trubovlje was very happy. RGD Trbovlje did this. Then you cancelled this contract, you gave it to SCT, and SCT found a subcontractor named Grassett from Italy who did what he did. And today, everyone's doing a Pilate washes their hands so nobody's to blame. The investment or construction by this Italian company was 1.5 times more expensive. And there's also a critical point. Critical point, traffic, which requires a lot of attention from our users. And of course, when you come in from 130 and you have to cut to 60, you just "primima" to the first glass. This is actually a response to this, this new construction, this transparent and legal process in the use of public finances. Why isn't anyone answering today? Why is it that no one today is responsible for the calamities caused by this causal link? Why do you think Grassetto is? Why Italian, anyway? Why not Slovenian knowledge? And one more thing. Black traffic points. Nobody mentions them. Do you know how many there are in Slovenia? Why does this National Assembly not devote money to eliminating these black traffic points? That's what we can do tomorrow. We're talking about some systemic security regulation by raising penalties. And that's the last thing we can do. First you have to have the conditions for a good job, or you can't do a good job. If this applies to traffic, we must first have model roads so that we can drive safely. Otherwise, everything is at risk. Risk increases when we neglect essentially maintenance and the government is responsible. The government is the custodian of these roads. Government of the Republic of Slovenia, these state roads. Dear Minister! I'd like to ask you nicely if you could tell me what the strategy is to maintain the state roads below your mandate. Are we going to do anything in this term? Is it true that all of you are together just to wait in peace for the fall? For I see that all things go in this direction, that as few waves as possible, as little excitement as possible. The less he gets angry, the sooner we get to the polls. What is happening today will have tragic consequences that will be far greater than what they are. Who will be responsible for what is actually happening at unprotected railway crossings? You haven't solved these problems, Your Honor. You didn't leave. I would like to see that we agree to say here the date, hour and, of course, the last time that is yet acceptable, when we will have road crossings secured in a normal way, as Europe knows today, with electronic prisoners. But that's what he suggested. We don't have the money for that either. Give me some money from that gas tolar! You've collected one billion dollars. In short, please, if you can give me these answers and, of course, don't wrap your answers in a cellophane, but tell Bob Bob exactly. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u76	Thank you. Mr. Mikolitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Well, I believe that we must have a good law in this area, in particular, so that we can make more order on the roads and thus contribute to reducing accidents as much as possible. Mostly road fatalities. And I must also say that with the solutions proposed, you have not convinced me that this objective will be achieved. Because I have to say that, above all, it bothers me that there are severe penalties, high penalties, in this law. I believe that this is not the right way to achieve this objective. At first reading, I talked a lot about how many traffic accidents happen from Friday to Saturday, Saturday to Sunday, how many traffic accidents with fatalities and how many young people are involved in these disasters. That's one thing. The second is that someone who is working all night in the morning while driving home instead of 50 after the accident in the village will drive 70 and not at that day’s expense, even a month’s wages. I would therefore like to reiterate that I do not agree with such high penalties. Now I have no choice but to say that I have a sticker or a picture of St. Christopher in my car, just like a driver on my dashboard. We know St. Christopher is a chauffeur's attorney. I must say that I currently trust him more than the proposed solutions in view of the fact that there will be fewer deaths on Slovenian roads. So I can't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u78	Thank you. Mr. Bones.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u79	Thank you very much. For each law, it is my opinion that it is important that it is adopted at the time and in those matters where without it we cannot in a responsible and spontaneous way establish some orderly state in society. This means that the law must serve to facilitate the regulation of relations. But he can't replace them. Therefore, we also believe that every law must be written and, above all, used for life. It must be used primarily by those operators who are aware and competent for such an approach. This is also the case that the consistent application of criminal sanctions is only applied where we can confidently conclude that they will be brought up and likely to have a positive impact on future behaviour. At the same time, it is very important that they do not cause side effects in areas that one law cannot regulate. I think today's marriage is very much like some kind of drug law. With regard to today’s law, police officers and judges will be some kind of doctor who will prescribe prescriptions and medications in the event of a problem on the road. I myself understand the actual situation in Slovenia in the field of transport safety as some kind of epidemic. The situation is truly worrying. I support the fact that it is beginning to approach problems more systematically. It is said that stronger medicines are prescribed. At the same time, I note that this must also be followed by measures in areas that are particularly preventive in nature. In this context, I would like to know how the competent authorities will strengthen preventive action in the most urgent cases. Here I would point out only a few specific matters of how the authorities will be present in those places where we know when and where road traffic regulations are systematically violated, and there is no presence of authorities. I can be more specific. Then there is a need to provide better signaling in view of the real situation on our roads. Here I would mention only one entry into Ljubljana along the local road, where there are sound barriers. So it's like lying there at home telling the police the low one where the car's just a little busted if you drive across. Systematicly, all drivers drive on their left because they avoid it. It is said that signalling does not actually serve greater security, but puts other drivers in greater danger. Here at this point, I would just like to thank the Ministry of Transport for listening to our initiative and for setting up an additional signal on imports into the motorway regarding the problem of misimporting onto the motorway. And then there's the police presence. Where the causes of the bad consequences are, say, Friday night, Saturday night, the proximity of discotheques or amusements, where young people are mostly held. I think these are some concrete measures that can be taken. Mainly to prevent this killing. I'm in a dilemma myself. I have to say, I don't think only high penalties will solve this problem. As I said, I agree with a systematic approach. And until I see very clearly how the authorities will approach preventive work, it is said to prevent the causes that are now causing the greatest consequences, I cannot support the law for so long. I will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, it is not a system law, as one of the colleagues said when he presented his position on behalf of the Group of Members. Of course, this bill is, in some sense, a tax law for road users. That is why I do not support such a drastic increase in fines in financial terms. Because it is and this proves - and today it has already been said - many empirical data that the tightening of penalties does not significantly affect greater road safety in the longer term. This is a short-term effect that will delay the resolution of some other problems affecting road safety. And let me just count four. I'll put alcohol first. I would personally agree if it were a drastic punishment, one that goes over 0.5, five years of withdrawal of a driver's license immediately on the spot. I support such drastic action. Because, as has been said today, 30% of the worse traffic accidents are due to alcohol. Quality of roads. More and more freight traffic on our roads, especially when we talk about state roads and local roads, we prevent. Education, too, and so on, not to mention it. So, instead of investing more resources and energy in providing safer road infrastructure and more informed drivers, we will make an effort to get some more radars, some additional police vehicles and a nice number of police officers on the road, who will be doing crime orders. And not just that. They will also suffer in dialogues and arguments, both by police officers and by drivers who will be in a misdemeanour. And the police themselves do not have exactly the same opinion as the proponents have in their own explanation. That's why I'm going to read a paragraph from the Police Protection Committee. And it is good that the Slovenian police hear this: "People need the police, and the police need the people to the same extent. However, it is funny to expect that you will deal with the police only when you need them. Unless a service is set up to monitor the observance of road traffic rules and punish violators in their place. Of course, it must be acknowledged that the poor conduct of the police and the desire to fill the state budget has resulted in more penalties for offences that do not actually endanger traffic security. The police are often looking for violations in places where traffic is the most and, as a result, for a number of minor violations, rather than actually carrying out surveillance in places where traffic security is indeed poor. But you must be aware that the police officer who stops you on the road has no influence. He's there because he was so determined. And more when he hears the action, he will be better valued with his superiors." Otherwise, it's a letter that contains five pages of type. So we got a law that doesn't increase the priority, as has already been said today, prevention, but criminal policy, criminal policy. The main changes are in raising monetary fines and this is drastic. I also do not agree with the proposal here, where there is a drastic increase in amateur drivers and discharges for those with motor vehicles. Once again, I will not support this marriage alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I will also not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Traffic Safety Act itself. In my view, only a combination of education, education, preventive, repressive, better public transport and, above all, greater investment both at national and local level in the road network will ensure greater traffic safety and thus reduce the number of dead on Slovenian roads. After this proposal for amendments to the Road Safety Act, we are talking more or less only about repressive measures and, of course, about a drastic increase in penalties in this area. There was a lot of talk in the debate. I agree with some things. Some things need to be answered. We talked about better road-rail crossings, investment in this area. I believe that there is a lot to be done in this area and also more resources to ensure safer railway crossings. But let me tell you a case. On the basis of a recommendation from the Minister of Transport, the former, local communities, we did not pay the costs of maintaining railway crossings because the minister promised to arrange this with the Slovenian railways. During this time, judicial proceedings were under way, and despite all the government's promises, the Ministry lost these lawsuits. Now there have been executions, and in Hrastnik we had to settle this amount, which is not so small for the municipal budget. I think these things should be handled by the state, not by the local community. As far as investing in the state road network is concerned. I miss the National Road Network Program. The national programme has already been adopted in its previous mandate. We have not entered the entire mandate into the parliamentary procedure with a national programme to ensure greater investment in the state road network and to ensure better traffic safety. Why not? I'll tell you why not. Because then the priorities of investing in the state road would be different, as they are now working, on the basis of how strong an individual Member or mayor in the local community is and to provide money in the state budget for the state road network. If not, we, Mr. Minister, answer only one question. Why is the main road of the second class of Hrastnik-Zidani Bridge still a one-way road? That more or less traffic in both directions is not possible in the entire road section. We're talking about a former highway, the main road of the second grade. It is impossible to ensure that there is adequate safety for participants in the transport sector. You haven't even put a tolar in this area in four years. Not even a tolar. Tell me: In what way will you then improve traffic safety only on this important section of the state road network? As far as the powers that you are transferring to local communities and to local officials are concerned, I tell you that the adoption of the law will create major problems. More or less, most local communities do not yet have a local editorial service. In Zasavje we decided to organize local directors together. We are preparing all the necessary instruments for admission to the municipal councils. Then there will be, on the basis of systematisation, the selection of the relevant personnel, to bring them through the appropriate training process in order to be able to carry out these tasks. Who's gonna take care of this in the meantime? For safety on the state road network in the village and on local roads and public roads? I'm afraid no one is. When we give this authority, as far as traffic is concerned, to local editors, police officers are no longer "pulling" or punishing any more in the cities, as far as traffic is concerned. I think it should be a transitional period. We should therefore support the amendments of the Social Democrats in order to establish all these services during this transitional period and then ensure some effective control or better prevention in this area. As far as the police are concerned, I'm afraid that security within the country is getting worse every day. Not just on the state road network. More or less, it's just an emphasis on the Schengen border. Police departments in the municipalities are being staffed and security is being reduced, not only in the field of transport, but also in other areas in my opinion. Once again, only a combination of measures in the field of education, education, prevention, better public transport organisations, greater investment in both the state road network and the local network will lead us to the goal set out in the resolution or in the national programme. We're not going to achieve that by just raising the penalty. Therefore, once again, I will vote against the amendments and amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, the distinguished Minister with his fellow workers! Today or all of this time, more or less, is being discussed, or the greatest emphasis is being placed on this so-called amount of punishment. It's like it's a law that really only increases penalties. That it's some kind of repressive law. No one mentions that there are many other solutions in this law that will facilitate the work of both police officers and all those involved in traffic safety. It is true that for those offences or - we can say - crimes, which are a key reason for the number of deaths in road transport, and a significantly higher penalty for the number of points. Last but not least, statistics say that over 50% of deaths are caused by excessive speed. Similarly, a very high percentage of fatalities are due to reckless overtaking, driving in the wrong direction. These are the key points that we are also sanctioning in this law. I agree that the high penalty is not a long-term measure, which will also have a long-term measure such as that expected by all to reduce these penalties or the number of deaths. I myself was in a dilemma when we first met this law, whether it was the right solutions or not. However, when I read quite a few material, where we also had specific figures from the countries of the European Union, it is explicitly stated that similar measures have significantly reduced the number of deaths in a very short period of time. In five years in France there was - I think - a decrease of about 42 or 43%, in Luxembourg 49%. And there, in a similar way as in this law, they have dealt with this problem, which I call a social problem. Road safety! It's not just a matter of the police. This is a matter for each of us, politics, education, not least for parents. We are parents who need to give this particular emphasis, for children follow our parents ’ example in the first place. I firmly believe that this law will have a very positive effect in a very short time. He's already got it. I recently took part in this debate. I was invited as an MP. However, experts from road safety and police were interlocutors. And they made it quite clear that in this year, in the first two, three months, there are significantly fewer accidents and even fatalities. It means that even when public debate is being held that some penalties will also be increased here, people are being encouraged somewhat more, as I would say, by a safe attitude towards behaviour in road traffic, that this is already known. And I firmly believe that in the coming months this law will have slightly more effect. I agree, however, that this effect will also fade slightly here in a year, two or three, such as the effect of the law adopted in 2004, where the penalties have also increased substantially, in a few years, slightly pale or what was known. Therefore, there will be a great deal of work to be done in addition to this law on prevention, on the culture of each driver of each one of us. In Slovenia, the culture of driving us drivers rises from year to year. Anyone who drives can figure that out. But there's still no comparison. If we look around our neighbouring countries, where this tradition is slightly larger, and also on a higher level. And here are the solutions we all have to pursue. Every single one of us. Not just this law, not just the Minister of Transport, not just the Minister of the Interior. So it is also necessary to build on this in the following way. It is said that we have high penalties that Europe does not even know. That's not true. For example, Switzerland, which also means that someone who exceeds his sentence for more than 30 kilometres per hour, along with a high fine and a number of points, gets a prison. That's exactly what it is in England. It means that even there, to such violations, they are extremely sanctioned. It means that this solution is completely comparable to Europe. We have also received some debates here today. Above all, opposition members with criticism that the country is underinvesting in road infrastructure. I agree that more investment should be made. But let us ask ourselves: How much did we devote to national roads in the time of Slovenia? We've been building highways from the budget for 15 years and we still don't have any built roads. For state roads, however, there was no money to cover the holes that were also produced each year. This was the situation because of the wrong policy of all past mandates. With this government’s appearance, however, it was the state’s roads that were dedicated each year to one or two times or even three times the amount of money. So on state roads we have not only all roads more or less mangled, where this is most necessary, but every year quite a nice number of new sections of new miles of roads. Currently, two or three times the amount of funds allocated to state roads at the time of this term. Last but not least for highways. This year it is designed to build highways more money than any other year in the past. Again, we are witnessing to a number of eyewitnesses how the country is in the wrong way financing the construction of motorways. But when we know that highways are one of the important elements that can also reduce road fatalities. So it must be quite right to say here that this Government has been working on road safety issues for the entire mandate to improve things in this area as well. That's what she's doing. How's it going? As I have already mentioned, there will also be a need to resolve education, education and road links. This year I think there'll be over 40 kilometers of new highways. It means that in two or three years we can expect full connection with these corridors to motorways. This will also result in greater security. Today, we have also been able to hear that the police, with their actions in particular, are hunting people who are driving too quickly by accident. I don't agree with that. I believe there may be such cases. However, in interviews with some of the police commanders, everyone said that the police had the task of strengthening control in the areas where they were most critical. And I can tell you that I followed it every day. Because I drive every day from New City to Ljubljana. And on this road, which is one of the most dangerous roads in Slovenia, it is possible to detect police and traffic control. Especially at those points where there have been the most fatal accidents so far. In this law, there are also solutions that we have not had in the past for those drivers who often think twice or three times if they commit the worst crimes. It will be very easy to take away or confiscate a vehicle. And this is also the answer to that question or criticism that nothing can happen to the Roma. I think here, if not the other way around, they'll be at least by the car if they commit a misdemeanor twice or three times in a row. Many very good solutions are found in this law. I believe it will help to reduce the number of worst accidents. That is why, of course, I will also support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u86	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members and Members of Parliament, Minister of Cooperation! I too have - I must be honest - a great dilemma on how to deal with this law, especially in the light of the high penalties imposed by this law. In fact, if a truly high penalty were to contribute in the long term to fewer deaths on Slovenian roads, I would be happy to support this with both hands. However, I think that, as some others have pointed out, this is not the case, and that the very level of punishment will not affect the fact that the number of dead on our roads would decrease. If this were the case, then we could find that the countries where the death penalty is imposed do not have such crimes as are prescribed for capital punishment. But we can see that this does not actually reduce the worst. There is, therefore, a need for some approach in the comprehensive area. Especially as far as our roads and safety are concerned. One part of this is, of course, being implemented expeditiously. These are major investments in road infrastructure. It's not true that these investments are small. They are extremely large in this mandate. Also thanks to the fact that the National Assembly has accepted certain guarantees for the rental of loans. Because without these funds, the highway programme could not have been completed or would have been significantly extended and would have continued to contribute to the number of dead. I think that more will have to be done, especially in prevention itself, in the area of education. We could probably do a lot of things through family awareness and then through school education. But there's nothing you can do about it for a short time. This needs to be approached gradually and, above all, through training on values, it is necessary to try to change the thinking among young people, among them, in fact, as regards the number of deaths, that is the biggest problem. On weekends, Saturday morning, Sunday morning, we can listen on the news, on what road, for what reason. This is essentially about this population. And one more aspect I'd like to point out. Doesn't mean we don't have enough cops on the road. At least for the northeast of the country, I can tell you that's not true. That's enough. Perhaps I would have the only comment that I feel that some who are put there are too young to have enough experience. I've already stumbled upon the fact that the driver on a motorcycle with a high speed cop on the side of the road just waved. They must have known each other. And if someone does that, it is, of course, an example for others in the young population. It would be right if they were friends if they knew that these young police officers would act, as the law dictates. In the last three years, when I was driving, I had twice or three times experienced such a move by police officers who were standing by the road, and of course I concluded that they obviously knew that they were friends in their spare time. How am I gonna make up my own mind? In fact, as a Member, I would like to contribute to this quest for something real to happen. However, with such high penalties at this time, I do not intend to support the law myself. But I will abstain from voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u88	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u89	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates! Allow me first to say that the Minister's presence for me is the most self-sufficient and normal consideration of the law. That's why I'm not going to give you any special moods while you're still with us. Especially since you are with us at the third reading, when the law has in fact been given the image that the coalition has intended to give to this law. But I miss ministers on all other occasions. Because it's become this general habit that we don't get answers to questions. And this was also an introductory observation by my fellow Member, Janko Vebra, and I think as much as he thinks. Now to the law. I see the Road Traffic Safety Act as a law which, however, should ensure that those implementing all measures also have road safety. But unfortunately, we're facing a very different reality. It is also understandable, therefore, that a good part of our attention to this law is focused primarily on criminal work. Like my fellow Members and colleagues, I cannot say for myself that increased security will be ensured by tightening criminal policy because, for the last time, the Minister of Internal Affairs has assured or confirmed the experience that the increase in punishment has a very short-term effect. I'm not a judge who would be inclined to give priority to punishment. Moreover, in the case of judges, they must also count penalties for the educational effect. But I am an advocate of education, education and, of course, prevention. The famous Slovenian psychologist Anton Trstenjak, as well as another psychologist who dealt with the character characteristics of Slovenians, noted that self-destruction or latent aggression is a fundamental feature of the male part of the population in our country. And it is this quality that comes with the expression of behavior in traffic. And when we weigh between considerateness and presumptuousness, there is regrettably more recklessness and more brazenness than considerateness. Here's the ethics of a severe test. We could therefore see that the culture, the driving culture, is unfortunately not highly developed. What also shows is that compliance with the rules, respect for the road traffic signalling orders and all that is supposed to ensure safe driving is taken first as a weakness rather than an advantage when, at the level of general discussion on how to conduct ourselves in traffic, we move. I have already told my experience in the general debate on how those drivers and drivers are doing, which we take into account consistently the constraints on bad weather in this part between the trojan tunnels. But you see, I'm going back to this because regulation is also very important. And if I look now at how the signalling is arranged on this part around Trojans - I will say that we will be more cost-effective in expressing - and how it is arranged in the tunnels of Fight, then I find that this is completely different in two ways. And when someone earlier talked about how easy it is to see with a number of signals that the drivers are picking up and the drivers are picking up along the road, we can miss one. I'm going to tell you a regulation that tells you about 70 kilometers in bad weather, clear or negates a rule about 100 kilometers there before the fighting. There are also boards that would allow for a flashing light or a light signal that dictates how much speed should be at bad weather and thus further alert drivers to how to behave. Look, I'm really excited about the boards talking about the no rush for trucks. But soon after they installed these boards, the basic traffic sign was given an additional table on when these restrictions apply. The restrictions are linked to traffic spikes. I have to tell you, hours aren't the same on all the extra boards. And now I ask you, I needed some time to check all the additional boards and figure out when trucks can't drive through the emergency lane because they're restricted. And if it is the trucks as a driver of a passenger vehicle that are most often putting me in a particular state of danger, I would say that it is probably not necessary to explain if you take into account when we normally drive on our official obligations as Members of Parliament and Members. So it's some general things that are small, but they can have too little effects. Even because we don't give them enough attention. That's why I don't agree with those who want to prove what was done. Because there was so much and so much budget money I'm just focused on, where the individual points out where the money was directed. More interesting to me: How was this money spent, and what are the effects of this money? And here I have to find that many times money has not been focused on those measures at the end, where there are either dangerous sections or where a person could expect to solve any problem with small funds. So it's rationality. It's about economy. It is all that could be done in transport, because we are a society that appreciates mobility. Mobility intervenes at different levels and different manifestations of human life. I see traffic as just one of the mobility factors. Traffic's gonna get bigger all the time. I must say that I do not see the measures taken by this Government being very considerate and comprehensive. Finally, it would also be possible to find a comment in the case of wines which would suggest that road safety will not be increased by this measure. As for the law we are now talking about, as with my fellow Members and colleagues, I do not intend to support it. Because I don't believe that criminality is the miracle wand with which we're going to have fewer fatalities. I'm thinking the same thing as my colleague Pavlich. The goal should be - no dead on Slovenian roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u90	Thank you. Mr. Steba has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I don't know what's going on like that. No, when he was a colleague of Pavlich's, he was like a echo in a microphone. I don't know. Is it the speakers or what? Yeah. We drivers get to know each other very well and know everything that happens on roads and highways. This is also seen from these discussions in the context of the amendments to the Road Safety Act. And I think that the drivers, who we are on the road a lot, we see a lot of things to do. But if I really focus only on this law that brings, in my opinion, some substantial news. Of course, only the penalties that we take - whether they are smaller or larger - should, of course, be carried out in a consistent manner. And then the penalties can be very relative. But if you take into account what colleague Pavlich said very well, in fact, the right to safety on public roads is almost becoming as fundamental a right as the last one I know - the right to a healthy environment. In fact, this will become human rights. Then there's no punishment if someone violates and threatens us and violates this right, it's not enough. It's not enough. And in that, if you think about what was also very well said by your fellow Member, then the debate on penalties should not be the essence of the debate in this law. Absolutely not. Essentially, implementing these penalties that are going to actually get caught by violators. And that this does not involve or involve too much or too much infrastructure resources of equipment and of the people who detect this control. And in this sense, I think that the transfer of powers or the decommissioning of police at the municipal level to municipal officials is the right approach. The mayors - I know that I have always been the mayor of Slovenia's two mandates - always endeavoured to detect violators for violations of speed limits themselves. Instead of using various means and heavy costs, we prevent someone from parking on the sidewalk, so we also set traffic signs, which is totally irrational. The sidewalk doesn't say it's allowed to park because the sidewalk is designed for other things. To set up and build humps to slow traffic and that over these humps should also be driven by those who drive according to speed limits. But the municipality has to build these ridges and maintain them. Just to prevent, physically prevent wildlings from driving as fast as they would otherwise drive and completely without interference and without disturbance. It is now possible to use appropriate equipment and punishment for violators. To create a source so that, on the other hand, we can once again increase traffic safety. These radars could be implemented in a similar way as the case of Great Britain or England. A few months ago, I traveled across all southern England, and also on very small, purely local roads, you don't have any humps anywhere. Speed limits are with appropriate signalling. And then there's just these little boxes of drugs where there's a video camera and a speed sensor. It's automatic. It's detectable. It's processing. All you get home is a nice greeting with a letter to pay for your sentence, with a photo, with all the relevant information. If you don't pay your fine within a month, you're going to the judge for crimes that punish you for not paying your fine. If you object to finding a license number, it punishes you because you do not have a clean or orderly license plate and you pay more than you would pay for such a penalty. Essential speed overruns of more than 10% shall be measured. However, additional overstatements result in the loss of these penalty points and the loss of a driver’s license in four such penalties. Very simple. Apparently, a lot of English people are about to lose their driver's license. In this case, in fact, the cost is minimal if you compare it with the fact that we now have a habit in Slovenia, that within areas of settlements, by municipalities on local roads, it is not allowed on national roads, we build all kinds of obstacles, humps or put signs that do not have the right effect. Because of such valuable education or education, better said, in Slovenia, in fact, everyone except when faced with direct control is in violation of the rules. This multitude of signs is also one of the things that has already been mentioned. We put signs where they don't need to be. All imports and exports from motorways should not be subject to traffic restrictions of 40 km per hour. It's supposed to be in the law. And it is known that on the highway it is driven with a speed limit of 130 kilometers per hour, unless there are additional restrictions. However, there are slightly different speed limits outside the motorway on exports and imports. We still have signs of a video recording. We also have signs that the speed limit is over. All of this actually brings inflation of traffic signs, which the driver then finds more difficult to notice. America is a typical example of how it looks at these things in a more practical way, and with established rules they reduce the scope of all of this. I'll support this marriage. What I've mentioned is essential. And now, for the first time, the congregations have the opportunity to generate additional revenue, to actually punish only those who, for example, exceed speed limits, and therefore have the cost only by buying and installing these surveillance cameras that cannot be disputed in this case. If we truly believe that the right to safety on public roads is a kind of human right, which may only once become recognized by the United Nations. And then I ask all my colleagues, who, despite this logic, in some way because of the changed and in certain cases even higher penalties, say they will not support the law. There is no real reason why they will not support the marriage for these reasons. I'll back him up. I think that in these three, four years at the time of this Government there has also been a lot of work done on the fact that, I think, for almost three times, it has increased the means to maintain and rebuild state roads, that state roads have for some time also been being renewed much more qualitative and for a longer period, for today and for the future, an appropriate increase in traffic and also for the complexity of this transport. The system itself, which will be established in the course of two, three years or one or two years, will also allow road users, particularly heavy goods vehicles, to contribute proportionately to the resources for the construction and maintenance of state road infrastructure. However, the motorway programme would be so accelerated if it went at such a pace that it would be built before the deadline as foreseen in the National Highway Programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u92	Thank you. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u93	A nice greeting to all present in this hall! This morning at 6:10 p.m., when I was on my way to Ljubljana, I heard a report on the night, traffic safety and other violations that took place in the last day. Among other things, these three dead young lost lives on Slovenian roads. And I found it interesting to conclude this report when the rapporteur said that it might also be necessary to remind those who, with extremely slow driving, are threatening and "nerving" the other players in transport, and have also caused a traffic accident a number of times. Just like that, for an introduction. As far as the law is concerned, I must say that I am convinced that the existing penalties in the law already in force would be fully adequate and appropriate enough to establish a little more order on the roads. Of course, if there was at least a little more control on the roads. Unfortunately, I see that we are people, even when the new law enters into force, a week or maybe a month will be better, but if there is no more control on the road, this will be the same time as it has been so far. Let's unload some of our administration's police and send them on the roads, because with only their presence on the road, I'm sure they can do much to improve safety. In fact, with regard to the high penalties, I would also like to say that a number of people will be able to overlook a restriction board in severe distress, as well as a very solid driver, and will have to pay very large fines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr. Juban has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary! First of all, I will express my disagreement with my colleagues, whom I have been listening to in this Chamber for about fifteen years, about how it is necessary to get the freight on the train and solve all traffic problems. This is a thing that makes no sense to me, not to say, a little stupid. In fact, find me a hero who will take four thousand trucks on a train in one day or in Koper or anywhere in Prekmurje. Even if the technical railway is trained and 4 000 trucks are brought on one track from any location and thus solves the problem of traffic safety and more. I do not want to burden anyone in this Chamber with scientific discussions on road safety. What we're listening to today. However, I would like to express very briefly disagreement with the three segments of this law, which are the reason why this law might have had solid support if all of us who have prepared this text were through the committee and elsewhere listening. Because this law may also have some good solutions. There's one obvious thing I'm just going to mention. On the one hand, the increase in penalties and, on the other hand, the tolerance for professional drivers, which can often be very dangerous in traffic. We don't understand these things. The second is the story, which is also proposed by the amendment slightly different. And it is still for us to consider whether we would not accept the authority of municipal officials who, on the one hand, may cause total confusion and dissatisfaction of citizens within the municipalities or by municipal officials, traffic surveillance and non-action. Man is so little at risk when he hears that it will be an opportunity for the congregations to receive additional funds. I ask you very much that with the fines of thousands of euros for 30 kilometres of overtime per hour of the congregation, we will solve the financing or problems they face. You don't hear that much. Either you smile or you freak out. And that last thing we all repeat in the opposition and coalition, the penalties that are envisaged are too high for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. And the solution to the problem present in Slovenia is present. It is too bad that, for example, in a congregation in a section where the limit is 40, someone will be carrying 70 kilometers an hour, 72 miles an hour, and perhaps only 500 euros a sentence will be paid for it. Not to say again, to see the filling of the municipal budget in this regard, I find it so much more terrifying. These are some areas that are taking no support for the law - so I will say: This law will not be passed for the sake of coalition support, but probably for the sake of opposition's absence, because obviously many coalition Members do not support it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr. Weber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. In this part of the debate, I would like to focus mainly on comparisons with other countries, both members of the European Union and non-members. Today, France has already been exposed as one of those countries that has been extremely successful in reducing the number of casualties or accidents. It's 35%. If we also look at the justification for how they have achieved such success, it is clear that they have achieved this by establishing automated speed control. 1500 mobile and stationary speed meters were installed in France. However, the second such measure, by which they have improved, is more frequent and effective police supervision. And if we look at this law that we are considering today, what are we doing in Slovenia? These devices, stationary meters, will not be purchased by the state, but will have to buy municipalities. So we are charging municipal budgets, not state budgets, to reduce the number of road accidents. Therefore, no one provides the congregations with any means whatsoever. And instead of establishing a more effective system of police action, such as in France, in Slovenia we give this authority to municipal officials, many of whom do not have any municipalities at all. However, traffic controllers will control both state and local roads in settlements where there are also the most accidents. Today I have also told you that, in fact, 40% of all state roads are in settlements. Thus, there is a tremendous increase in the powers and duties of the congregations and congregation officials, who are not fully acquainted at all and are even less prepared for all that awaits them. So why don't we follow France? Just a simple question: And why doesn't the country actually take care of road safety? Why do the congregations have to provide road safety according to the Government’s logic? And even if we look at the penalties. In France, a fine of 68 euros is fined to exceed the allowed speed in settlements and outside the settlements of up to 20 kilometres. In Slovenia, this fine is EUR 500. And I don't know why it makes such a difference. Do we have a better standard in Slovenia than in France? Why can we afford 500 euros in Slovenia for the same offence, while 68 euros in France, however, have achieved a 35% reduction in accidents in France with a substantially lower penalty? If I take Switzerland for comparison. Switzerland prescribes a fine of 20% of monthly income for speeding from one to thirty-five kilometres per hour. Well, look, in Slovenia we prescribe fines of 250 euros, 500 euros, 1000 euros. Yes, someone who has a pension or a salary of 200, 300 euros and will pay 500 euros or 1,000 euros in fines will be very drastic, disastrous. For someone who has two, three, ten. I do not know how much already the highest wages have been published in Slovenia, of course this does not mean much. In Slovenia, however, do we not know how to charge penalties according to the income that someone receives and thus the effect on an individual is comparable? In fact, the poorest will be the ones most affected. Again, these cases will be solved by municipal officials or mayors, when all those who will receive, say, a fine of 500 euros or 1,000 euros will come to the mayor and ask him how he will live for the next two, three months because he accidentally carried a regulation and was accidentally caught by the device and so on. Why are we not acting in the example of Switzerland, or do we have a better standard than Swiss? Do we have better wages to prescribe such penalties? Is it really difficult to calculate 20% of income in Slovenia, say, to exceed the speed of between 30 and 30 kilometers per hour? Then the same goes on. For example, between 60 and 40 kilometers, a fine of 25% of monthly income is prescribed and so on. We have good cases both within the European Union and also in Switzerland, which is not a member. In Slovenia, however, we are obviously deciding on a line of minor resistance. It doesn't matter. We will decide on the punishments that will be as they are. However, they are truly prepared without all analysis, in particular, what will be the impact on citizens and all those involved in transport of such high penalties. We all agree that the number of accidents must certainly be reduced. But let's think about how we're going to do this in practice. The way we hurt some of them. Indeed, by endangering their existence, I find it an inappropriate solution. Even when you're in debt, the bank won't grant you credit if it finds out you're overpriced and finds out you can't pay off the loan you want to rent. They're the criteria we use and we know them. I don't know why we wouldn't use them in this area, but it's already been tested in practice. I think we are the only country in the European Union that will have such high penalties. That people would, of course, be threatened by this. That's not fair. That's why I really don't want to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. Slavinec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll just keep going here, where my colleague finished before me. If the amount of the penalty reflected the economic situation of the state, the salaries of the citizens, then Slovenia would certainly be the most developed country in the world. Relative to this bill, we have the highest penalties. It's a specific case. A week ago, I was returning to Germany from Munich airport and missed a limit of 120 kilometers per hour. I drove 165 kilometers an hour. So you exceeded 45 and paid 70 euros for it. Now compare how much you would pay under this law with us. I say again. Look, we're not going to cut any slack. Not in the long run at all. Because that's our goal. We're not going to reduce the number of casualties on the roads. The number of victims on the roads, we will reduce accidents by all other measures. For I am already saying that the penalties are now high, high enough to be applied to those that contribute to less accidents. There is more to be done in education. There's more to be done in training. There's more to be done to raise drivers. When will the slope in Vransk be completed, where drivers can train, where they get the virtue of avoiding accidents in an unexpected situation? Why has the first field in Slovenia for safe driving school in Murski Sobota suffered and struggled with existing problems and there is no incentive, the government's encouragement that drivers would be able to drive more safely and, of course, also raised to such driving that they would not endanger themselves and would not endanger others? Importantly, it is therefore very important to ensure safety in such a way that all road users are safe. Not with sanctions. Not with the kind of penalties we've seen a lot of cases where we can get a lot of people into existential difficulties. What's the worst, of course, is those with the lowest income. That's why I'm going to say it again. If the bill-maker wants to reduce the number of victims by penalties, then these are too low. I'm a cartoonist. Give 10,000 euros for speeding. Then surely no one will drive too fast or will do so only once. But we all know that's not the point. We all know that's not the way. We all know that, of course, Slovenian citizens and citizens do not deserve such a law. That's why I won't support him either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I must say that when I hear arguments mainly from the Government, I do not understand these arguments. I don't understand why the government has decided to increase the sentence so dramatically. Just as I don't understand why the government thinks on another case of envisaged penalties for disregarding guilt, this will to a large extent encourage people to buy vignettes. Or if I turn around: Why do you think that someone who sits in a car at four in the morning after a party will turn away the amount of punishment from driving in an alcoholic state and causing an accident? I myself estimate that repression is certainly not the right instrument to solve problems and increase road safety. And that's why I miss preventive activities in the marriage in the first place. I understand we're about to end the world too. I think it would be appropriate to continue with what has long been found in the Scandinavian countries when they started promoting the belt attachment action. It is well known that there are 70, 80 kilometers an hour to crash an unattended safety belt into the stake of death. And I would therefore suggest that the Government reconsider whether this will really achieve a goal that should not be the goal of the Government, but the goal of all. This is to reduce the number of accidents. Of course, road risks are also being reduced by other measures, some of which must be the end of the highway on the one hand, on the other hand, the construction of parallel roads. Because, you know, this government has promised to make a better road between Arya and Velenje. First you said you'd fix the state road. Somewhere in 2005, when the minister was not even in this government. Then in 2006 John Janša said, "No problem. We'll have a third development axis taken from Schentrupert to Velenje." None of that. The road stayed just as bad. Traffic's getting more and more. You will now reduce the number of traffic accidents on this road by repressive activities. There are accidents not due to the speed of driving, but because of the high density of traffic. Mostly the cargo and everything that comes with it. It is therefore necessary to act much more responsibly to increase road safety. To fulfill the promises you made. Not with some "criminal repression and activity" trying to influence the consequences of their irresponsible actions. Mr Minister, as would be the case to speed up the solution to the problem of poor transport in Slovenian tunnels, we know which, I suggest you consider other and not only repressive measures in order to improve road safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u102	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u103	Good-bye, everybody! Any solution that will result in fewer victims on our roads is certainly welcome. And this law also brings some such solutions. And even if, due to higher and stricter penalties, the short - term effect may save some life, it is probably worth it and it is right to accept it. It's just that we usually drive too fast and we're only being punished. Then we can also move our foot out of the gas very quickly and go a little slower. And then we probably ask ourselves, ‘ What could happen if a child or something like that ran into the road at a time when we were driving too fast? ’ It is true, however, that only punishments will not solve all the problems we have today on our roads, and many more steps will have to be taken. Some of you have already set an example for France. I think we'd be more successful if we could actually do something like this. A number of radar controls have also alerted some of them. So, drive too fast. How many penalty points is that? For at today's pace of life, many things we do also quite unconcentrated and unconsciously. And such a warning certainly works on the driver, so that when he sees such a warning, he slows down the ride. However, I agree that investing in road infrastructure is also important. But it is true that if the road is bad, usually for us to guard our car more slowly, it does not mean that I advocate that we have to have holes and bad roads. But the fact is that a beautiful straight road is also often the reason that we are faster than we should have been. There is certainly more to be done in the education system, the school system. To tell young people that they are cautious in traffic, first as pedestrians, cyclists, later as drivers. Certain resources must be allocated for prevention and work should be undertaken in this area. True, there are many drivers on the road today who will not be reached by this prevention. There's a lot of us drivers who won't go through any school system anymore, or they won't. This means that all these actions may not be received as children and adolescents will be. Therefore, it is likely that such a law, including the raising of punishment, may be the only remedy for such speedy drivers. Some of you have warned that there will be a problem for congregation officials. The minister has already said that and in these days we can also see on television - municipal officials are already training. Some have already completed this training so that we may not be afraid of it. And I've been judging myself - I've been driving for 15 years - that things are getting better. Perhaps not in statistics, though, because traffic is increasing and as a result there are more victims and more accidents. But also because we are talking more about this because more money is being spent because certain preventive actions are being carried out because civil groups or institutions and society are being organised. And it's probably the punishment that makes things better. That's why I'm going to uphold the law myself. Because I think, as I mentioned earlier, this could also be a cure for some speedy driver. I think he's going to choose to call a cab instead of sitting behind a wheel under the influence of alcohol. And I will support the law as well as any future measures that will contribute to greater safety on our roads.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr Gulic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u105	Mr President, representatives from the Ministry. I will try to tell you very briefly, however, why we are against such a novelty of marriage. Especially because it seems to us that all this effort is too much and that if the increase in the penalty does not change the behaviour of those who control traffic, the police, in particular if the ministry does not determine, change their tasks, their frequency of appearance on the roads, then nothing will happen. In any case, I think that this law should be amended, broken down into several laws, in which it would be very clear that punishment must be strict, clear, unequivocal, quick and consistent. A man who commits frequent misdemeanors must know that he will often be punished. It's not like it's gonna be lottery pitch. And of course, these penalties are just lottery numbers. The other thing that seems even more important to me is prevention. Let's prevent all generations of drivers. This means - not extending driving licences to infinity, up to 80 years or as far as it is now. But every 10 years, the refresher course and the frequency, signing that the course was completed, then extending the driver's license. The third thing is certainly investing in polygons. Because road users can't practice unpredictable situations. That's bullshit. There's Mr. Sušnik from Vranski. I hope you find that money as soon as possible to complete this range that will serve all drivers and drivers. To the new, and also to the old, to those who already think they know everything. Then it's the feeling that causes the accident. At the same time, when deciding on the priorities of which roads should be repaired sooner or later, account should be taken of the frequency data, the changed driving conditions, the changed customs of the people travelling from place to place, not the municipal Februarys and their belongings, where they can be found. The great danger now lies before the elections that this will be taken as the only criterion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! At the previous session at the second reading, I asked myself who was in charge of this law. Last month, Minister Mate sat in government benches and today is Mr. Žerjav, Minister of Transport. That is, when someone has time he comes to Parliament to defend the law. Well, basically, the law is interdisciplinary. It's not just a traffic problem, it's not just a repressive problem. It's also about education. The Minister for Education could also be here, and the Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. And I'll tell you why. I think we should pour ourselves some pure wine and answer the question of who will be responsible for the implementation of this law first in the Government. I can say that the main novelty of this law is punishment. That the main novelty of this law is that citizens and citizens will have to cut significantly deeper into their pockets. We have substantially higher penalties for virtually all types of road traffic offences. The main feature of this government, this coalition: as we get closer to the end of its mandate, there is growing repression. Apparently, with increasingly high such or other penalties, we would like to make order in the country. We've got a Justice Minister who's legitimizing life imprisonment. We have the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Interior to celebrate the highest penalties for road traffic offences, including 1,000 euros and more. And we have the Prime Minister of the Government in this House preaching the persecution of economic crime, and we already have spectacular arrests in front of television cameras. See the penalties in the amendment to the Road Safety Act. They also increased by more than 130%. The average gross earnings in the Republic of Slovenia are between €850 and €900. The penalties for some serious offences are EUR 1000, 1200 and more. These are not small penalties. In addition, add the costs that offenders will have to pay because they will have to take the driving test again, which goes into 2000 and more euros together. The average wage in the Republic of Slovenia is €850, not to mention the minimum or guaranteed wage. That's why I'm wondering where the preventive work is. Where's the education? Where are the refresher courses? Where are the better roads? There are only greater penalties in this law. Nothing about additional measures in the field of education, nothing about additional preventive work, only higher and higher penalties. For example, in this mandate, the Minister of Justice introduced 45 laws into the procedure. Justice will turn to its head and the results will ultimately be only higher penalties. What about preventive work in all areas? What about education to prevent all types of crime, as well as road traffic offences? It turns out that all punishments when they rise are extremely short-term. I remember in the previous term, when we also very, very much increased penalties. Then they all drove from 100 to 130 kilometers an hour for about a month or two, and then everything was the same. I guarantee you, Minister, that after two or three months it will be exactly the same. However, if we were to take training from the beginning, from kindergarten, primary school to all other measures, even refresher courses, after you have a 10, 20 or 30 year driving license, I think it could be significantly different. Not by repressing to solve problems. And with such penalties far above the income of the average citizen or citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to say one more thing when I mentioned earlier that there should also be a Minister for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Dr. Žagar. Look, in our country, we have more than 40% of state roads that drive through settlements. It is said that more than 40% of state roads will be cared for by municipal officials, far from being able to control traffic. For this we have police going to appropriate schools, many years of schooling, but on the other hand we have trained municipal officials, with some courses, and now we will give them a difficult task such as the implementation of the road safety law, on more than 40% of state roads. More than 40% of the state roads in our country are already built, running through settlements. It is said that now, mostly for traffic safety, the police will not worry, but they will worry about municipal officials. I think that this is a completely wrong approach, and I think that this is also a completely flawed approach of this coalition to solving problems. We've all seen problems, how you've managed to solve these problems, and it's completely wrong, and I think that in the next government a lot of laws will also have to be rewritten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr. Marinic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and others! I cannot help but overlook the implementation of those previous speakers who spoke about not saying literally defending those who are the worst violators of road traffic regulations and thereby causing the worst traffic accidents on Slovenian roads. This could be translated in the sense that you said it was too high a penalty. Now tell me who didn't talk about it. You know, if we're a state of law, we have a basic legal order. These laws also set out the criteria and the measures to be taken in the situation where someone commits the most serious offence. I agree with all those who are talking about the fact that there is no expectation of a satisfactory outcome in this respect, even with the increase in the number of criminal points, I agree. But here I would like the answer of all those who claim that the increase in fines and penalty points is too severe. What about the alternative? What do you suggest? Lower your sentence? Nothing? Should we keep it the way it is? Do people die? Don't we care if we do something? We don't have a physical option, but we do have laws. And, of course, in this sense, I would also expect some understanding of those who today may be permanently disabled due to the consequences of traffic accidents, those who have lost relatives in serious traffic accidents and so on. You know, these are serious things. And here I feel like we can't do this anymore, I'm gonna say, blow my soul out to voters and voters. This is about serious things. This is about human life. When I represented the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group today, one of the viewers wrote me a message, "Why were you so serious?" Yes, how else can I imagine, as before, as a serious view of this sensitive issue when we talk about 600 victims per year, 124 human lives and so on. These are serious matters. I also agree with those who say something must be done to get the trucks off Slovenian roads. This is where all the administrative measures are superfluous, and we have been going through this period when we wanted to do something with administrative measures, and this has not proved to be effective. I am sure that there is an entrepreneurial interest here, because it is not so easy to put the truck on the train but to take it from one point to another through small Slovenia. But how much does Slovenia get out of this, that it only transits, is a matter of other countries, not so much Slovenia itself. We cannot follow the example of neighbouring Italy, where they have the opportunity to give the trucks a bonus to put their truck on the ship and ship to take the truck across the sea and avoid this traffic jam on the roads. And we in this small Slovenia are tied to the measures and regulations of other countries, how Hungary has, on the other hand, Italians and so on. I am confident that there will be some entrepreneurial public interest in this area, where some of the associations will organise and try to transport this large number of trucks that are driving on Slovenian roads today, which are often also directly or directly responsible for the worst traffic accidents on Slovenian roads. But we're not talking enough about that part, and it needs to be highlighted. There was little money invested in public roads in the past. Everything was invested in the highway cross, and we're building it today. I hope that it will soon be completed, so that a number of domestic and European resources at the transport sector ministry have been transformed into investment in state roads and also into public rail infrastructure, which is linked, as I have already said today, to better insurance for road and rail crossings, in cooperation with local communities. A colleague from Hrastnik also said his bitter experience, which stemmed from many years ago when these things were not sufficiently regulated by law, and today he is the victim of a municipality that has to settle high financial resources for an obligation that made the legislator who was then not fully defined these powers and also financial obligations. And let me also talk a little bit about the police. We like them best if we don't see them, we love them even less if they stop us. But the best thing to do is to come to Parliament and burn for cops we don't see anywhere. This, you know, this conflict of some dilemma, some views from some other perspective, doesn't give any credibility. Of course, at a certain point, there is a certain time when there is a lack of a specific police patrol at some point. However, the organisation of the Slovenian police is quite satisfactory and I am sure that the police are carrying out their preventive task satisfactorily, which in the end we can also get to know Members and Members of the Slovenian Parliament. What they use in carrying out their preventive tasks, we have spoken many times. It seems very important to me that, especially in recent times, in order to ensure preventive road safety, Slovenian police have also been equipped on some specific segments. This is also evident from the budget lines of the state budget, in which we can see what the budget will be allocated for. Local communities are also involved in this prevention through the introduction of editors. And that's right. However, the provision of financial resources must be regulated by the State, and on this point, the Minister of Local Self-Government and Regional Development, who is here today, has stated what the function is and when they will specifically perform their duties and duties as so-called directors by municipalities. If I pull it all together, I'm sure we don't care what safety tomorrow will be on Slovenian roads. If we do not agree with the content of the proposalr, then let us give our ideas, our alternative proposals in the form of amendments, which was half a year's time to improve the situation on Slovenian roads as regards safety. However, I am sure that we will soon face something when we do not fully satisfy sufficient security on Slovenian roads, but then I expect that we will all contribute constructively and responsibly to the adoption of such a law, which will provide for positive changes, in particular, and this is a fundamental task for fewer fatalities on Slovenian roads, even at the expense of the higher penalties that many of you are exposing as a fundamental change to this law. I have often said that it is not just that there are other changes to this law, but people are much more pleased when we talk about the fact that the penalties are too high, that the number of penalty points is too high, that this must be lower than the opposite. However, I am sure that it is not an area of prevention by public awareness through the media by the competent Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior in the sense that we are aware that when we step on the wheel, we turn on the engine and drive to the public road surface to realize that we are then potential killers. And what we can do ourselves to reduce this sea on the roads is, of course, a moral obligation for us and for all who are involved in road transport in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u110	Thank you. Would the Minister like a word on the general debate? The general debate is closed. Will you then? Now? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Today I have heard many things here that are probably the responsibility of all governments in this Slovenia. I'm sure it's not just this last government that's responsible, not just me, who's only been a minister for six months. Surely the reasons are deeper and, of course, extend to the past. Almost everyone, including those who are somehow against this law, agree, I say to a large extent that the effects, even if they are short-term, will be. And this, I think, is actually the basic purpose of this government, that this law quickly, with rapid effects, achieve that the victim will be less on our roads. With the previous amendment of the law or the previous amendment of the sentence, you may recall that the law was written during the time of Minister Bohinc and then adopted in this mandate, by 2005, compared to those two years, the number of victims fell from 253 to 229. We could go back and take a look and find out the same facts. This means that an increase in punishment also has an effect on the number of dead, whether we want to admit it or not. There must be a lot of options. Many of you have mentioned how to reduce the number of dead on our roads. But there are few options that have an immediate effect. The talk was that there was nothing about prevention, that there was nothing about roads, that there was nothing about education and so on. It is currently very good after my assessment not to say an excellent preventive action, as regards the fastening of the safety belt, which is in line with, by the way, a similar plan for the implementation of the national road safety programme for 2008 and 2009. My personal opinion is that if this was the worst law ever in this House, and that would save one life, it should be supported by all Members. That's my personal opinion. This law definitely does not prescribe that road users have to break, drive faster, drive drunk, force nobody to do so. However, we are trying very, very seriously to warn those involved in transport, only those who do not comply with these road traffic rules and seriously endanger other actors who comply with these rules. Some estimates are that such participants in Slovenia are only 5% or, in other words, that 95% of us are driven along our roads as prescribed. I will also try to touch some of the other perceptions that have been made today. I agree with the poor road infrastructure, but it is certainly not only this government that is responsible. We inherited the matter, not to say, from Yugoslavia. It must be said, however, that this government has increased investment in state roads by 123% in recent years, from 2005 to this year, and we have stopped at 253 million euros for this year. She was mentioned as an old mother and someone who, after an accident or after an embarrassment, takes 50 instead of 50 through the village of 70 and will therefore earn a month’s wages. I'd put a comma here and add: and that's why he kills a ten-year-old child who walks on the edge of a road or who crosses a road. I think that's unacceptable. There have also been numerous mentions of editors and who will be responsible for the implementation of this law. It is responsible for the implementation of this law and will be taken care of by the police, both outside the settlements and within the settlements as it has been so far. But there will also be help from the officials, of course, depending on whether the congregations want it or not. For example, the municipal councils for the education and prevention of road traffic, which many Members have also touched, say, of this world, only at municipal levels act very differently, also depending on the interest of the municipality, not to say, the individual mayor for how these saints work. Surely our vision is nothing dead, surely; otherwise it cannot be. It is not true that the Preventive Council is to be abolished. But I also have to say my own personal opinion that I expect more from him. And certainly more could be done in this area. There was a gas tolar mentioned. See, the gas toll has been gone for several years since the restructuring of the retail price for fuels was changed. Unsecured passageways. And this time, I think, for my time, a lot has been done in this area. And even in this short period that is yet to come, we have yet to do something else in this area. It must be said, however, that the setting up of prisons at the railway crossing costs approximately, depending on some matters, but on average EUR 300,000. But we do. I'm talking about it again. 600 of these passages. It is not just the setting up of prisons; some will certainly need to be abolished. Let me say that we have already appointed a new team a month ago, which has already begun to work on the drafting of a new law, but in a second form, in order to break the road safety law into four laws. The Motor Vehicle Act is already ready, it will be necessary to draft a driver law, a law on rules, powers and penalties, and a fourth law that has taken over all that is in the Roads Act, this is a law on public roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u112	Thank you. We are now moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. 2008 I am putting to the debate Article 34 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate 106th Article and the amendment of the SD Group of Members and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups to this Article. I can only see one hand. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. We have tabled the amendment to Article 106 in order to postpone for 24 months the implementation of the tasks imposed by this law on municipal officials and municipalities. The municipalities are responsible for the provision of speed control equipment in settlements, and no one provides them with additional funds. At the same time, they are also responsible for the supervision of traffic in settlements on state roads. And here, Mr Minister, in view of your words that you have had in the conclusion of the general debate, I must remind you that this law expressly requires that editors regulate and supervise traffic on the roads of the self-governanced local communities and state roads in the settlement, to monitor traffic with automatic measuring devices for traffic control, in which the offences are documented. With our amendment, we want the implementation of these provisions to be decided for 24 months for the municipalities to prepare themselves for the implementation of this. And it's not true what you said that the wardens can exercise control. This law explicitly requires that local and national road traffic be monitored by officials in the settlements. That's what the law says. The word "may" is nowhere. And I am also of the opinion - too bad that there is no Minister of the Interior with us - that this law is a non-trust to the Government to the Minister of the Interior and to the Director-General of the Police. It means that the government does not trust or assess that the police do not control the safety or traffic control of the settlements, and it orders officials and municipalities to do so. And I claim that this law is untrustworthy to Minister Matthew and the Director General of the Police Administration. If it were different, then it would probably not have been written that traffic controllers were in control of the settlements. But maybe we could write down what the minister said was "may be controlled by the editors." However, this law explicitly states that on 40% of state roads, as far as they go through the settlement, the editors and perform all activities related to measuring devices, municipalities provide funds for this, and not least, if the municipalities are already those who will solve the social problems of the people who will pay the fines of EUR 500, 1000 and have the income of EUR 200,300 per month, how will we deal with these social hardships. This too must be defined in the law if this is the task of the congregations. Where will we take the resources to enable people to survive for two, three months, possibly more, according to the income they have. I therefore reiterate, Mr Marinic, that we should follow the example of Switzerland, that we should impose higher penalties, but that this penalty should be applied as a percentage of the income that an individual receives. Why would someone who has 300 euros in income be substantially more punished than someone who has 10 million euros in monthly income? Where do you see logic in such a relationship? And that's what we're warning you about in this amendment. Let us postpone the implementation of this, for the municipalities will not be able to implement this law as it is written down, and also to alleviate these social hardships that will arise due to such high penalties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr Bevk also called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u115	Thank you so much for saying that. In support of the amendment to Article 106 tabled by the Group of Social Democrats in order to postpone the implementation of this Article for 24 months. See, we have 210 different municipalities in Slovenia. It takes some time to set up a truly functioning system in this area. Mayors need to get acquainted with this problem, the municipal councils, and finally the municipal officials. And then there's this. Earlier it was said that someone could be wrong when driving through a village and crossing 50 kilometers an hour, even to 70, for example. That's very possible. Why? I've said before that more than 40% of state roads go through settlements. From Idria to Želen, that is 14 kilometers, we have at least 4 or 5 restrictions where we drive through the village. So, on average every two kilometers I have to pay attention to the new traffic sign and the speed limit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u116	Thank you. Anyone else? Does the minister want to answer anything? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th agenda or at the latest at 18.50. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item, this is on the exploratory proposal for a resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Since the minister's not here yet, but he's on his way, we'll wait a minute. Yes, he's on his way. [[...]] Minister, take a minute to calm down from your breath. We'll wait. I give the floor to the Minister for the supplementary explanation of the motion for a resolution. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u117	A respected choir! The new resolution of the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011 has been issued since December 2006 at the Ministry of Culture. The Ministry’s professional services have first prepared professional bases for a special group of experts, this is for the Committee for the Preparation of the Programme, which I appointed at the end of 2006 from creators, university lecturers and cultural leaders. After months of work, the group drafted a new national programme for culture, taking into account the requirements of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, while writers relied in many ways on the then existing national programme, but from a formal point of view also on the national cultural programme, which was written by the current Minister of Culture, Rudi Sheligo, with the group, also external associates, in 2000. Some of its conceptual elements on the importance and role of culture and the principle of cultural policy have been taken over, but are updated and extended by guidelines, while the second part of the resolution formally follows the structure of the then existing national programme for the period 2004-2007, but with an approach that deals more specifically with longer-term cultural policy tasks and priorities and targets with measures and indicators, as required by the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture and as was the case with its requirements. The new resolution in this sense represents continuity in the design of strategic documents, which seems good, as cultural policy cannot afford arbitrary changes that can sooner harm culture than not. In short, what is the content of the new resolution? The programme introductoryly discusses the importance and role of our culture in the past and present, also highlighting some of the threats posed by globalisation and the European Union's space, and further defines the principles to be followed by cultural policy in its decision-making, mentions the cultural segments to which cultural policy should be particularly careful, namely, Slovenian languages, Slovenians outside Slovenia, minorities, the promotion of Slovenian culture abroad and elsewhere, and highlights the issue that the current gives it in particular new technologies, the market and the new geopolitical space in which we are. Guidelines for decision-making are given here for the work of cultural policy. Chapters 4 and 5 define public interest in 13 areas of culture, indicating in particular long-term tasks, and then lists the priorities and objectives to be achieved in this medium-term period in Chapter 5. The objectives are, as has already been said, equipped with measures and indicators by which they can be measured once they are achieved. As we have said, the new programme does not bring anything revolutionary, but it does predict a series of actions that will not only allow for high cultural creativity but also protect achievements and cultural achievements, while at the same time enriching cultural life with top-notch creations. This is not only about new investments in culture, but also about decisions that need to improve the conditions for creativity, more than ever to support top creativity, more attention to language development and protection, cultural heritage, cultural education, education and training, the promotion of our creativity abroad and projects that we will implement in conjunction with other ministries and draw funds from European funds, and the first steps are also announced to address the problems experienced by people with disabilities at the reception of culture. In the programme we are committed to extending the Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, for at least five years, and we are also laying down some guidelines for the implementation of a very difficult project of the European Capital 2012. This is just a few of the main objectives of the programme, based on the requirement that the already achieved level of culture will not be reduced. The latter also applies in particular to things that will be up-to-date after, or if, the landscapes come to life and many other tasks are longer-term and cannot be carried out without previous analyses and broader arrangements. The draft programme was held in public debate for three months. During this time, the Ministry organized a special discussion with representatives of NGOs, twice discussed the text with the Strategic Council for Culture, Education and Science, the National Council for Culture, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the PEN Club, the Union of Blind and Invisible Associations [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The resolution before us has been given a broad interest in cultural and other circles and represents a comprehensive and quality document proposed by the Ministry of Culture to the National Assembly for approval and acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u118	Thank you. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I'm giving the president a word. Branku Grims for presentation of the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u119	A very nice welcome to all, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, which addressed the motion for a resolution on the national programme for culture for 2008 to 2011, at its 30th meeting, on 6 March 2008. The Committee took note of the views of the Council of State, which stressed the need to take into account the depth and extent of changes in the situation of the Slovenian people after independence. It also took note of the comments made by the Commission on the National Community and the Legal and Legislative Service. The debate focused on the importance of this resolution, on the main objectives to be achieved by cultural policy over the next four years and on how to promote the development of individual and group creativity in the Republic of Slovenia and in the field of culture, to ensure freedom with an independent and dynamic culture and to ensure good protection of Slovenian cultural heritage and tradition and, which is crucial in view of our changing situation, since we are an integral part of the EU international community, how to accelerate the cultural exchange of Slovenia with other EU members and with the world as a whole. Most of the comments were then about individual solutions mainly with regard to the assistance of the book and those involved in publishing. Finally, the Committee discussed the individual chapters and the amendments tabled and also adopted one amendment, namely Mr Bevk, concerning the renovation and maintenance of the Franja Hospital, because it is a monument included in the international lists of the most important cultural and historical monuments. This amendment was adopted and then voted in full and endorsed by the Committee on such an updated text. We propose to the National Assembly that it be accepted today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u120	Thank you. Before we go to the presentation of the views of the groups, let me remind you that the Government has fallen out of the list of discussers due to a misunderstanding. So please record the correction at the end of the debaters "Government - 30 minutes". The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs. Barbara Žgeiner Tavsh. [[She's not here.]] Maria Possonec, on behalf of the National Communitys Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u121	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting to the Minister and the team. Nice greetings to all present. The proposal for a basic strategic document of Slovenian cultural policy between 2008 and 2011 is a combination of previous such programmes. Nevertheless, it creates greater cooperation between ministries, encourages a variety of cultural expressions, where indigenous national communities are also involved. The representatives of the Italian and Hungarian national communities are disappointed that the motion for a resolution deals with both indigenous national communities, as it assigns them the position of the weaker in relation to the majority of Slovenian identities. We therefore call for a clearer policy to emphasise the coexistence of different cultures in Slovenia. Regrettably, during the discussion on the proposal for this document on the Commission for the National Communities of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, it was shown that the Ministry of Culture does not have concrete proposals and programmes for the implementation of the protection of both languages of the national communities. In maintaining and developing the linguistic and cultural identity of indigenous nationalities in our country, in addition to language, the role of education and education and the role of the media to highlight the creativity and functioning of indigenous national communities is very important. Training and employment of appropriate own resources within both national communities is also crucial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u122	Thank you. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u123	Good-bye, everyone. We have before us a resolution on the national programme for culture for the period 2008 to 2011, because the current resolution on the national programme has expired at the end of last year. The legal basis for the preparation of a new resolution on the national programme for culture is Article 10 of the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. It is a strategic document of cultural policy development planning in terms of enabling and promoting cultural creativity, accessibility, protection and preservation. The resolution discusses the role and importance of culture in Slovenians, defines the principles of cultural policy, its guidelines, sets out the area of public interest in culture and sets out in thirteen areas the objectives and priorities that cultural policy will achieve in the next four years. The objectives of the measures to achieve them are equipped with the expected effects and indicators that we will be able to monitor. However, the entire programme shall be financially valued or equipped with the intended financial burden at the time of its implementation. The National Programme for Culture for the period 2008 to 2011 also retains a significant proportion of new content in double links with existing documents defining the main strategic dimensions of cultural policy. The first starting link is the Slovenian national programme Rudija Sheliga, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2000. The second starting link is now the current resolution, the National Programme for Culture 2004-2007. The national programme for the coming years focuses on the main objectives to be achieved in the coming years. The findings of the report on the implementation of the national programme for culture in 2004 to 2007 shall be taken into account. The fragmentation of budgetary resources so far needs to be offset by greater and more weighed selectivity. Different levels of public funding need to be clearly distinguished. Especially because in the period ahead of us, the landscapes are promised to be established. The comments made by the SDS Group on the national cultural programme 2004, 2007 are also taken into account, where we have noted that the programme does not contain the basic principles. The national programme is based on the following principles: the right to culture, culture as creative and combining energy in society, pluralism, freedom of expression and equal opportunities for creators, the care of Slovenians in substitution and around the world, the care of national communities, the Roma community, various minority ethnic groups, immigrants and vulnerable groups, the prudent diversification of culture across Slovenia, the provision of cultural exchange and the promotion of culture abroad, the development of cultural awareness and expression in children and youth, the care of cultural content in the media, nature and the environment as cultural value. The national programme further consists of cultural policy guidelines: Cultural policy and the European Union. The programme also focuses on the European Capital of Culture 2012. One of the key guidelines is the transformation of the public sector, i.e. the creation of a special commission in 2008 under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture, composed of representatives of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. It would also be attended by representatives of executive organisations, culturers and self-employed people in culture. It is expected to develop a reform proposal by 2010 in order to create better conditions or better opportunities for effective creativity, art production and efficient public institutions or better conditions for the production of art and for cultural activities as a whole. The national programme contains 13 areas and in a specific chapter it specifies the objectives that we will pursue. These are the following important areas: Slovenian language, book areas, library activity, art, performing arts, music art, intermedia art, audiovisual culture, cultural heritage and archival activity, development and promotion of cultural education, international exchange and promotion of Slovenian culture around the world, national community, Roma community, various other groups, immigrants and vulnerable groups and areas of amateur activity. In particular, it is worth mentioning the European Capital of Culture 2012 project to be carried out by Slovenia this year. This period, 2008-2011, will be the most important in this part in the design of the programme and the establishment of the necessary infrastructure for that cultural project, which is, in the history of the Slovenian country, the undisputedly largest and also the financial most demanding. Investments in cultural infrastructure must meet the requirements of cost-benefit coordination and take full account of the distribution of financial burdens between the country, the local community and the private sector in such a way that state resources do not exceed the amount set by the municipal funding rules. Investments will start already this year, in 2008, and must be completed by 2011 in order to be available for content in 2011. The launch of preparations for the European Capital of Culture 2012 also coincides with the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, which was launched this year by the European Commission. In particular, the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue will aim to strengthen the awareness of European citizens of the importance of intercultural dialogue, the definition and dissemination of best practices in this dialogue, the strengthening of cooperation between operators at all levels and the promotion of European Neighbourhood Policy. The Presidency of Slovenia in the first half of this year, which also relates to the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, operates under the motto of Synergies for Europe. This is a major challenge facing us and the Union will only be able to succeed if we work together. Thus, the Slovenian Presidency aims at ensuring more synergies in Europe between Member States, between the institutions of the European Union, between the Union and citizens, between different generations and cultures, between different areas of cooperation, objectives and strategies. In our Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we will support the resolution on the national programme for culture for the next four years.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! On the table, we have a third national programme for culture in the last eight years. In 2000 the first programme was prepared by the then Minister for Culture and Writer Rudi Sheligo, but there was no debate in the National Assembly. He was admitted to the government and published in a special book. The second programme was prepared by Minister Andrej Richter, with 61 votes in favour and no objection was adopted in the National Assembly on 27 February 2004. The legal basis for the adoption of the resolution on the national programme for culture was adopted in 2002 by the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture. The law states that the National Programme for Culture is a strategic document of the development planning of cultural policy resulting from the historically achieved status of culture, which identifies the role of culture in the development of Slovenia and the Slovenian people and identifies the areas of culture where cultural goods are provided as public goods, plans investments in public cultural infrastructure, sets the objectives and priorities of cultural policy and sets the time for their implementation and indicators by which they will be measured. The basis for the preparation of the programme at the time was more than 400 pages, a comprehensive publication entitled Analysis of the situation in the fields of culture and a proposal by priority groups. However, there was a wide-ranging debate in the professional public and last but not least in Parliament. At that time, Minister Richter said in the introduction that the national programme for culture was given at a time when the country entered the European Union and that Slovenian culture and culturers would have a good traveller on this path. Slovenian culture deserves such responsible care not only because of its past, but primarily because of its future and its creative involvement in all the seasons of society. He was also accepted by the new government and worked after him for more than three years. The third programme was prepared by Minister Vasko Simoniti and his colleagues. On the Ministry's website, the draft document was first published in the middle of last year and was adopted in the Government in December and sent to the National Assembly. The introduction to the resolution states that most of the objectives set out in the National Programme for Culture 2004-2007 have been achieved. It further wonders whether it is already necessary and whether it is possible to radically reform a cultural policy that will allow for the creation of top creativity and other aspects of culture in the Republic of Slovenia over the next four years. This question is immediately followed by the answer that reform will be more successful if it is gradual, so the national programme does not bring about revolutionary movements, but primarily seeks to enrich, upgrade or rehabilitate certain areas. It is therefore understandable the continuity maintained by the new document with the previous two national cultural programmes. The common feature of both cultural resolutions is that former Minister Andreja Richter and current Minister Dr Vasko Simoniti have prepared it in the last year of their mandates. I would like to present below those parts of the national programme that have been complemented by the Social Democrats' proposal in the framework of the Partnership for Development and Debate on the Home Committee. As a proposal for both laws on the provision of funds for certain urgent cultural programmes of the Republic of Slovenia, I have put forward a parliamentary initiative to extend or prepare a new law for the period 2009/2013. The Cultural Tolar Act, as it is widely referred to, expires this year, so it is right that the obligation to extend the law is also enshrined in the national programme for culture, which we are currently adopting. The law covers five programming structures, firstly, the rehabilitation of the most endangered and most quality cultural heritage objects. Secondly, approximation of international standards for general education libraries. Thirdly, the provision of basic spatial conditions for certain central public institutions in the field of culture. Fourthly, maintaining the attainment of the level of development of amateur culture and equating development standards across local communities. And fifthly, the promotion of cultural networks in the field of publishing, cinematography and modern information technology. The first Cultural Tolar Act was implemented between 1999 and 2003. The second law, however, will be implemented there around 35% in the period from 2004 to 2008, according to the adopted budget for the last year of its validity. For this reason, one of the main aims of complementing and amending the Cultural Tolar Act is to extend its validity for the next five years. Several initiatives to extend the law have also come from some public institutions in the field of culture and individual municipalities. In preparing the law, priority should be given to those programmes and investments that are still necessary and which have already been included in the cultural toll law, in particular those already included in the first version of the law, but have not yet been implemented. The plans for the development programmes of the Republic of Slovenia for the period 2008 to 2012 show that some investments are planned for implementation only after 2008. In particular, it will be in the eyes of individual programming units that it has the worst realisation of the area of reconstruction of cultural and historical monuments. The very poor situation in this area was one of the fundamental reasons for the adoption of the law in 1998. Both marriages were greatly supported in 1998 and 2002. Members and Members from all parliamentary groups, both coalitions and opposition, voted for them, so I am sure that we will be able to implement this commitment from the national programme we will adopt today in this mandate. On our proposal in the area of cultural heritage and archiving activities, we also stated in the fifth objective that it is necessary to ensure the necessary spatial conditions for State institutions in the field of cultural heritage and, together with the founders of public institutions at the provincial level, to ensure the necessary spatial conditions for deposits for national important collections. The sixth objective has also been complemented, which speaks of the greater visibility of the cultural heritage of Slovenia in the international space and as an important measure has been to establish proposals and prepare projects or nominations for the registration of heritage in accordance with the Convention on the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage and the Convention on the Protection of Insubstantial Cultural Heritage, for the entry into the UNESCO List of the World's Memories and for the acquisition of the European Heritage Label. It is unacceptable that during the entire period of the independent and independent State of the Republic of Slovenia, we could not or could not have entered any new cultural or natural attractions into the list of the world heritage at UNESCO, so that we remain only in the description of the Scottish caves more than twenty years ago. I hope that next year we will finally be able to list the old mining city of Idria and its legacy of living silver as part of the first trans-continental nomination with Spain and Mexico. Although I have also proposed this year to the Government the entry of empty customs of ecclesiastical laufaria and ptujski kurentice into the representative list of the intangible cultural heritage of humanity, I am still waiting for an answer, although the draft reply has been on the Government's website for some time now that the Convention is only three months after its adoption in the National Assembly, so it is not possible to draw up these proposals. On my proposal or on the proposal of the Social Democrats, the Home Cultural Committee has also adopted an amendment to the resolution on the immovable cultural heritage for the reconstruction and revitalization of the partisan Franja hospital. The Partizan Hospital of Franja began building at the end of 1943, where nearly a thousand Slovenian partisans were treated by the end of World War II, including many wounded from many countries of the antifascist coalition. Health personnel and locals kept it safe until our homeland was liberated, and immediately after it was protected and presented as one of the most important monuments of the national liberation struggle of the Slovenian people. More than a million and a half visitors from around the world visited it decades after the war, enrolled on the World Heritage List at UNESCO and received a sign of European heritage last year. During all this time, she was repeatedly severely affected by her natural attributes until she almost completely wiped out the face of the earth on 18 September 2007. The Franja Hospital and the Pasica Society are a symbol of humanity and human nobility at the time of the worst conflict in the history of human civilization, so we must bring it back to our future generations to memory and reminder. In the beginning, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia took part in the reconstruction. This is also the position of the special working group with the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, of whom I am also a member, who, on the basis of the alternative conservation solutions for the presentation of the monument, decided to complete the reconstruction. Your Honor! Regrettably, the Home Committee did not adopt the amendment of the Social Democrats to a resolution to adopt a special law in the field of art on the promotion of investment in artistic equipment for new construction and reconstruction, financed or co-financed by public funds. The Law on the Promotion of Investment in Culture would provide for a prescribed share of funds from the budget of the State or municipalities, which would be intended for artistic equipment in the event of new constructions or renovations of public buildings. The adoption of this law would certainly increase the representativeness of public buildings, highlight the modern cultural identity of Slovenian space, support authors of visual arts, especially from the territory of Slovenia and the world Slovenian cultural space, and influence the regulation of the market for services of art in the Republic of Slovenia. With the artistic equipment of public buildings, we mean the installation of services that resemble art in the building, the building and the surrounding building. Services of all types of art of contemporary authors, by choice of investor, architect, idea plan of the building and selected distinguished experts with a public invitation or direct order, would be taken into account. In a variety of ways, they promote the art equipment of public buildings. This is also legally prescribed in some countries. Interestingly, Minister Simoniti responded firmly to my proposal in the framework of the 2005 parliamentary initiatives. On the parental committee, however, this same proposal was voted on in suspicious circumstances. And to conclude. At this point, I would point out another fact that characterises this document. The fact is that the financial framework for half of this period has already been adopted in 2008 and 2009, while for the second half of the period for 2010 and 2011, it is estimated to be more than 13 and 15%. It would be more correct for the Government and the Ministry to cut out a larger piece of cake in the budget of the Ministry of Culture for the years 2007 and 2008 when they had scissors and canvas in their hands. Thus, financial responsibility for the implementation of the national programme for culture is transferred to the new government. The Social Democrats' Group will not oppose the national programme for culture. There will certainly be no vote against it, but there will be no vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues. Today we have heard that this document is, in addition, a major achievement of the Partnership for Development. That's new for me. In some ways, however, it is commendable and encouraging, and I hope that people will later take over all the shortcomings of this document. What I see as the difference between the time when related documents were drawn up in the past and today's debate is that today's debate is accompanied by a great apathy of people involved in culture. When I checked why that was the case, it turned out that they did not believe that any decent proposal that did not have the right political blessing or the blessing of the Partnership for Development could be penetrated at all. This is the step backwards that these documents and the expectations of such documents, when adopted, take the necessary charge, which also leads to the mobilisation of a wide range of local communities and ministers. The next thing I see that is really good for someone - I don't actually have major problems with reading that language - is that this is a document that is written more for civil society in culture than for creators and those who are talking very passionately about things that need to be changed and done. In this regard, this is also a slap in the face of the project adopted by the Government during Mr Bayuk's presidency, when it was said that such a document was written with greater enthusiasm, with greater commitment and passion. In fact, this language may even go back from what we later adopted in the National Assembly on the proposal of the Government of Drnovška. These objectives, which have been written down, cannot really be opposed. Some of the old ones are more or less precisely "precise", but from all of these objectives it is not really clear what is most important at the moment in this field in Slovenia. From this document, which is a set of everything that people can think of, it will not be clear after this meeting what priority the Slovenian State and the Slovenian Parliament will give to the area of culture by 2011. One of the things that is certainly good, but it is not "precise" either, is to extend one of the rare concrete documents, which only directs funds to the field of culture. This is this famous bill on cultural tolar, which, by the way, was passed at a time when the minister, as I see, had no name. All the later ones had it, of course. But what I'm trying to say is that these programs that were made at the time need some kind of extension, at my discretion. Those things that have been classified but have not yet been implemented do not necessarily have to be extended automatically, but it is also necessary to look at how time has changed and what needs are bad 10 years later. The extension alone shows again this powerlessness of judgment, what is most important in 2008. I argue that at the time, in 1998, it was not possible to know very precisely what would be most important in 2008. And from this point of view, the National Assembly and the Ministry should deal more closely with these matters and provide programmes and resources. The next important thing the Ministry has touched and is of its own making, and the torso remains, is the idea that the public sector is being modernised. We have heard a lot about this invigorating words on a competent parent’s working body. The debate that the Minister started there can certainly be the basis for the fundamental steps, but the document does not bring any such binding. Today's performance of minister is also, I will say, a step in that already seen direction, for this area we will set up a commission. This commission will make proposals by, if I remember correctly, 2010. And again, we will miss a lot of time in an area where the necessary steps are set, in fact, quickly and immediately, but above all, it is necessary to discuss - quickly and immediately, that the various solutions are acceptable. The next error, I'll say, from the time of the partnership, is that the provinces are certainly a fact. And part of the solution of this document binds to the formation of landscapes. At this point, I would hope to say that the fact that the landscape will not be, and that all those assumptions on which you are building these solutions, at least for a few years, have been postponed. What then to do with these networks that cover the landscapes? This should be answered by the coalition, this should be answered by the partnership and, of course, by the government and the ministry first. What if this script doesn't work? Then there's a bunch of things under the carpet that aren't talked about. If I link myself to this link again, this axis that we can draw from the SDS back to the SD remains an open question of what is wrong with the deserving pensions. It was blocked by Minister Richter and, in fact, does not want to be distributed, despite the current legislation, by the current ministry. That seems very controversial to me. There are many applications under the current legislation, there are many expectations of creators who have received the highest prizes until Prešernovo and actually receive a minimum pension today. The Ministry is silent on this. The partnership assists in this. Of course, this is linked to some demagogic discussion years ago when pension legislation reform took place. I would like the law to be implemented in this area, too, to show respect for those people who, when they decided to travel alone in the field of culture, did not know about all the changes that would take place in the early 1990s and later. So this document is very general in my opinion. Indeed, he lacks some specific emphasis, even where it would be most necessary. From this point of view, he will allow very much manoeuvre to every next team in the Government and the Ministry. But it will not be binding on anyone to the end because it brings such a range of commitments that all of them, we need to know, cannot really be realized. What I think is almost irresponsible at this point is that there is no operationalisation in the final project, which could take an important step forward, as far as the situation of contemporary art and culture is concerned. Slovenia has received, as has been said here, this project of the European Capital in 2012, the document just states that the funds will come from different parts, that there will be a maximum of 50 million of them, and that no more than 40% will be contributed by the State. Nowhere is there any indication of what the smallest contribution is and what is the minimum extent that this project is, for example, feasible and is not, I will say, these timetables, how the organisers of this important event can plan the infrastructure, plan the promotion and plan the implementation. At the moment, the whole of Slovenia, not only the Styria end, where the centre of this event will be, does not have one exhibition for contemporary art. All events connected with European cultural events, with this term of cultural capitals, are largely built on these spectacular scenes and on the promotion of contemporary art. This is completely impossible in Slovenia, not only in Maribor. There's nothing in this document about it. These things can't be built like on the Hill overnight and locked up in front of the public. These things are built in a different way. Something small can be seen in Graz, bigger things elsewhere. In this regard, the document is absolutely weak and flawed. And it could be done. I'm sure Parliament should say something sharp about this, at least in two areas. Slovenian culture, culturers expect; I will say only two things that are specific; the first is to free the film from this "torture" of the minister and his officials. This, for example, is at this moment absolutely stifling the activity in this area. Slovenian media outlets, which largely generate language and what was said on the committee, low culture, expect assurances of greater media freedom, greater independence of these newspapers and greater guarantee of the autonomy of editors and creators in the media. Two such objectives should also be "promised" by Parliament and only then would we see that Parliament may be thinking with its own head, not with the head of the coalition or with these extended connections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, with fellow Members of Parliament, honourable Members! Let's do it again first. What's culture? Culture is the sum total of achievements of the values of human society as a result of human activity and creation. For today's item of the agenda, this definition seemed most appropriate to me, but you probably already know that I took it through the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language. The key issues today are: where should cultural policy focus in the next four years, whose objectives it should pursue and what are its priorities. The National Programme for Culture 2008 - 2011 shows the clear direction that cultural policy in Slovenia is expected to follow over the next four years. The main task of cultural policy is to create support and favourable conditions that will be a condition for the development of culture and its realization in society. Cultural policy must follow the strategic objectives set by the programme, which include the care of language and communication in the era of globalisation, the preservation of cultural heritage, the provision of media freedom, the development of the cultural and natural environment, and, last but not least, the contribution of culture to development and employment. All these objectives can only be achieved through the implementation objectives also defined in the programme. In terms of the implementation of cultural policy, the State must provide support to creators in terms of increasing funding for quality cultural programmes and projects, encourage institutions to open new challenges for them, take care of the stable functioning of cultural institutions, support cultural networks, and, last but not least, support and promote cooperation between cultural operators. The important goal of the programme is certainly the promotion of Slovenian culture and language, not only in Slovenia, but throughout the world. It is important to promote and develop Slovenian in traditional and new areas, in particular information technology, entrepreneurship, universities and tourism. The fate of the language of the two million community cannot be left to market liberalism; an active language policy is needed. In New Slovenia we are convinced that culture is an area of the creation, assessment and nobility of spiritual capital, values that design the lives of individuals and communities and act as a social bond. In Novi Slovenija we agree that the national programme for culture is a document which is the basis or basis for the development of culture, taking into account the changes that culture is subject to in terms of joining the European Union, the era of globalisation, the development of new technologies and other changes in society. Culture itself is important and it is important to take cultural aspects into account in other parts of national policies, particularly in the area of cultural education. By raising culture we will offer the foundations that will ensure the preservation and development of culture in Slovenia, and Slovenia will only become the focus of culture in the European space. As a basis, not only a written document, but as a basis for the realisation of culture itself in Novi Slovenija would once again emphasize the Slovenian national and linguistic identity that needs to be taken care of. All citizens are responsible for this. And with the realization of national consciousness, we will make it possible for the objectives set out in the national programme for culture to actually be achieved. We are convinced that the cultural policy guidelines and targets set by the National Programme for Culture are well-established and feasible, so we will also support the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc, you have the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We have carefully read the motion for a resolution on the national programme for culture 2008-2011 in the Slovenian People's Party. We are convinced that the resolution provides a good overview of the various areas of culture, despite the extensive subject matter, and that it also gives a good assessment of the situation and indicates guidelines and major measures that would further improve the cultural situation. The concept of culture is firmly linked to the nation. Thus, the concept of Slovenian culture is an inevitable member of the Slovenian people, who identify themselves with their culture, at some time more and in others a little less. There's no culture. And it is precisely because of the strong position of culture in every society that it is necessary to care for it and to ensure its smooth existence. Let us admit that many times we are too stepmotherly to our own cultural achievements that we do not appreciate them enough. This is particularly difficult at a time when we are overcrowded by the various influences of globalisation. That's our challenge. We must not allow as a nation to lose in the crowds of others or our culture to be lost in meaning. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group believe that the resolution highlights certain areas well, as would be the first to point out the Slovenian language. Here I must mention that we find the proposal of the Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sports on the mother tongue very meaningful. He says: "The Commission points out that no system regulation or institution operating in this area is present in the classification of Slovenian culture in the international framework, as is the case abroad. The Commission therefore advocates the establishment of a similar institution, which would cover the promotion of language and culture outside the borders, and the strengthening of international links, including the promotion of film, music, theatres and literature." We feel the same way in the Slovenian People's Party. We do not do enough to promote and do not worry enough about our language, and such an institution would be more than welcome innovation in this area. Although the National Language Policy Programme has already been adopted by the National Assembly, it also sets out a strategy covering the objectives, principles and ways to achieve these objectives. Among all objectives, however, I would highlight the objective of ensuring that language and other relevant material are as accessible as possible, including for disabled persons with adapted techniques. The resolution also highlights the area of the book, art, art, music art and others, including library activities, which are extremely important for the cultural education of young people. The resolution mentions, inter alia, spatial distress and lack of staff. The long-term objective in this area is mainly to increase the share of library users in the entire population. We agree that it is necessary to stimulate reading awareness in children and young people. In addition, in particular increase their interest in Slovenian literature and, of course, especially for Slovenian authors. As regards cultural heritage and archiving activities, we discussed the Slovenian People's Party's Group more extensively already within the framework of the Act on Cultural Heritage, where we made our proposals. The resolution also devotes too much attention to this subject and, as it tells me, that the protection and preservation of cultural heritage must be addressed primarily by its owner, to whom the local community and the country should help, while at the same time pointing out others in our view of the good news: tax reliefs for cultural monuments owners, systematic education, training of conservators and museums and others. The motioner himself acknowledges that, while the resolution does not bring about some revolutionary movements, it wants to upgrade certain areas in particular. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware of the importance of such a document, so we support the motion for a resolution that provides solutions for many cultural areas. The Ministry also took into account a number of comments received on the text, so that this is only now more harmonised. As has already been said, we will support the resolution in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u133	Minister, your colleagues, colleague and colleague. A five-year national programme. Such a document is certainly important because of strategic solutions. Because it plots a path that must remain and survive, whether or not the authorities are replaced in the middle, and it also outlines some of the objectives that the people adopt and agree on in a consensual manner. It is also important because it can point out fundamental changes, not only to cultural people, but also to citizens and citizens to prepare for these changes. Or he says there won't be any major changes. Anyway, he's drawing a path. But when he does, it's only one thing - that he respects that path. Those who prepare such a document and those who accept such a document must be aware that the document will also be respected. Otherwise, this paper is empty — unnecessary and empty work and also an uncreditable document. It is therefore important that, at least in the case of annual reports, when such a document is checked, when it is reported and when it can also be observed that it does not last or that it needs to be amended for such and other reasons, it achieves a sufficiently clear and clear discussion as well as changes if necessary. But for a document whose life span is due this year, which will be replaced by one that is not of much interest today, but whatever we are discussing, such a document must nevertheless respect the principles it has written. And let's look at what has been written in the document that is still in force today, this is said in the national programme for culture, which is valid from 2004 to this year. It was adopted in February, I think, with the majority support of parliamentarians and parliamentarians. In the chapter on audiovisual culture, let's say that it is necessary to quote "to encourage the expansion of the screening and distribution network, which is primarily intended for non-commercial cinematographic offer, that it is necessary to stimulate the distribution of non-commercial film production and to establish an art network of cinematographers." Minister, if you had respected this commitment, you would not have allowed it, but you would certainly not have remained cold about what happened yesterday, when your officials sealed the public infrastructure, which is not even yours, but owned by the Municipality of Ljubljana and closed the doors of the cinema Dvor, intervened even more in property and took away, literally dismantled the film projector and took it away or removed it, we would have wanted those chairs that we had not paid ourselves, so that the budget was not so burdened. You didn't say anything, but you let me. At the same time, you swear to respect the national programme for culture when the art cinema network, which has been put in place with torture, is being destroyed and is being imposed on you by the spirit of the European community, with which you are still meeting so often at the time of the presidency. Art cinema network is not expanding, cinematographers directed at non-commercial production are closing down, financial resources from the so-called cultural tolar are dripping and dripping, but it is unlikely that a cinema projector will be taken from the public audience of a cinematographic network from the cinema room without any explanation being given to why, without people being explained that those announcements that are valid and hanging from the door to watch the movie at six o'clock at eight o'clock at night are not valid. The people were there, Minister, they couldn't go in there because the man you set up is under your boss, who you loyally respect, in the morning, at six o'clock, he switched locks and wouldn't even let the staff enter the cinema. Even April 1st didn't appease those who couldn't believe it was true until tonight. The current national programme for culture, if listed below, also speaks of the production of Slovenian cinematographic works increasing by 30% by 2007. Mr. Minister, you are certainly responsible that in 2007 production of films decreased by 100%, so to speak. She's strangled, divorced, and you're responsible for her. Next, I quote: "On the basis of the introduction of the law on the promotion of audiovisual culture, the current Film Fund of the Republic of Slovenia will be transformed into an Audiovisual Culture Fund and will receive additional extra extra budgetary resources." Mr Minister, every year in your government programme is 2005, 2006, 2007, except in 2008, it is stated that you will adopt a film fund law or an audiovisual culture law or an institute for film, certainly a document that has already been introduced as a general consensus and here a certified consensus into a national culture programme that you have not respected again. The current national programme for culture, which you must respect as Minister, because you did not propose changes when you came with the report, almost every year, since there was no increase in Slovenia's audiovisual works in the media by 20% at the beginning of the report. If the Minister were to respect this, then every year, at the time of the invitations to increase audiovisual works and such production, he would devote as much resources as is stated in the law, in the law you corrected - on the media, it says 400 million tolars, it was still in the time of the SIT, the state will devote to increasing and developing audiovisual production, which will be managed by independent producers. Minister. Your calls, right now, in the media field, are being thrown out by independent producers. Of course, you have now rectified when a question was asked: Why do you not follow the regulation and your own laws, but under the table, the production, television networks, so-called special importance do not give a guarantee and confirm that they will then be able to publish the works to independent producers. In the current national programme for culture - and we have supported this, I repeat, and you are committed to this, Mr Minister - we also read that an integrated media development strategy needs to be prepared, a comprehensive review of the media landscape, and also effective cross-cutting cooperation. Mr. Minister, there is no strategy. It was one you invented yourself, it was a change of the law on RTV and a change of the law on the media, but it's not a strategy, it's a done fact. On April 1st, it was one year after you threw them on the table, if you talk about RTV, give them 14 days or how long to think about it, and then the facts were carried out. But you didn't make a strategy. You have not yet shown us the analyses that the law requires in the National Assembly, or we have obtained them through an attorney. But these are analyses. This is not a strategy. Interestingly, this current national programme for culture does not answer media questions, does not address the media. She's not talking about the new media. Of course, we can say that everything has already been done in this area and that it is not necessary either for other governments or for their own government to impose new obligations. But it is true, I admit, that you are touching yourself with some of the principled phrases of this department, the media field, but only in the context of the presence of cultural content in the media. All right, but such a principled view of the presence of cultural content in the media does not answer the question, for example, why the most productive and free artists, as well as creators in general, Artservis does not even have the euro of assistance, even though it is used by ministry officials themselves, because perhaps Artservis knows more about administrative matters than officials themselves. Why, for example, do you not advocate a magazine that would intellectually enrich the space with the help of cultural content in the media? For example, why don't you ask yourself why national television pushes these cultural content, which you put on your left hand in the national cultural programme, into the nighttime hours. Why we are discussing the national programme for culture now, if it happens by chance, and nothing more than that. It is no wonder, then, that this absence referred to by the previous speaker, Mr Školč, was about the anaemia which was so present in the discussion of this national programme. Come in. If I am talking only about one area of the previous or existing national programme for culture in the light of how it is not respected. In short, the status reshape of the public institute Viba Film Studio is not available. We still have a public agency, Viba Film, although we have an alibi, an imaginary excuse to obstruct the Ministry of Finance, but you are the Minister of Culture, can't Minister Bajuk talk about what they're going to do in a public institution or in any Viba film office. In short, I am not going to list all of what is written in the current national programme for culture and which you have not adhered to or even disputed or changed. Therefore, I say that the national programme for culture can only be printed paper if it is not respected. And in this light, we have, in fact, proposed, on the committee itself, an amendment that talks about this, talking about the responsibility of the person in charge of implementing such a programme. And I was talking about that these strategic goals should be respected. To the extent that they are not respected, the Minister or the Minister must answer for this purpose and, when considering the implementation of the national programme for culture in the National Assembly, the Government must examine and examine and initiate procedures to recall the Minister if it withdraws from the strategic document. Only in this way can the strategic document be credible, only in this way respects the legal order, the codes and everything else that you have sworn by the Minister, among other things, when you have become ministers. The new national programme for culture, which we are currently discussing, cannot challenge the objectives it sets out. In this principled form, as they are, I support them, we support them in Zares. But these goals are principled in nature. They cannot be disputed in the grave. The problem is not in those objectives that are written down, the problem is in those goals that are lacking in what is not written here. Let me just list something that seems absolutely necessary to me, we should face it when we look at a short-term five-year future that awaits us. For the whole chapter, which is supposed to touch on the introduction of provinces or regionalisation, I believe that, contrary to my predecessors, there is certainly not enough but a good solution. You say, only a short chapter you have on the prudent diversification of culture in Slovenia - here we read some principled views, in the sense that it is not good that the over density of Slovenian cultural institutions in central Slovenia is too high. Again, a completely wrong understanding of what regionalisation is, that there are too many institutions in Ljubljana. However, there are no answers to what it means to transfer institutions to other provinces, how they will be established and by what principles. This discussion was more than pretzel when adopting the Cultural Heritage Act. There is no answer to how they will be financed, set up, and what their responsibility will be. The National Programme for Culture is also working as if we will continue to have a cultural tolar; it is mentioned, we are in March, we know what it means to coordinate and extend the promised cultural tolar. All right, we hope that, because there will be a tolar, it is not only a tolar, it is a money issue, but it is also a whole project, from information centres, cultural networks, purchases of the film archive, etc., plus infrastructure that is not available in this NPK and also in the financial cross-section of the ministry. The national programme also very much forgets modern urban culture and preserves this ineligibility or classical division; it is everywhere; it is among the classic and so-called non-elite culture, which it maintains elsewhere. In the National Programme for Culture, we also do not see that one of the priority objectives of the creation of the Museum for Contemporary Art, which has been discussed in Slovenia for years. This document does not define it, nor does it define the basic collection that began in 2000 and we call it 2000 plus, this is a collection whose guardianship is the Modern Gallery, which the state does not unify or internalize and takes as its own. No, it's not. What's going to happen on the Metelk? Will this be a museum of contemporary art where there was once a consensus? We don't know. Although it has already been recorded in previous national programmes. Nor does it raise the key issue of infrastructure: What are we going to build? Where are we going to build? Why are we building? What are we gonna fix? How are we gonna fix this? Are we going to upgrade? But destroyed? Where did they set up? But that's what you're supposed to be doing on the national cultural trail. That's what the law tells him to do. The Blood Culture Act, the Cultural Act, which refers to the need for investment in public cultural infrastructure in a national cultural programme, a cultural programme. NUK isn't even written down. I may have read superficially, but let's not face what a nation might say: "Well, we don't have money for everyone, but in this five-year period we will build a museum of modern art, we may finally fix the drama that has really been planned before. Maybe we'll finally build something else." No, no, no. It's kind of preposterous, it doesn't just make sense that it's wrong for a housewife to do it at home, let alone a country. And this is a lack of this programme, and this is also avoiding the law, the law, the law, the law, which determines what the national programme for culture must have in its lines, principles and texts. Of course, let us now leave the financial resources, which clearly raise very nicely in 2010 and 2011, this is what is said then in the future. Promises have been made, 139% more budget than in 2006, once in 2012. But as I say, the share of the funds is somehow not focused on the path we'd expect to be on. Otherwise, Minister, we've been waiting for you to explain in this document how you're going to introduce incentives for investing in culture, because in your government programme, in your coalition contract, probably even in partnership, in all promises, this law was in the government programme. Now I see you've forgotten what was done. It's not a substitute for what we expected, which is why people probably elected you. In explanation of the national programme for culture, you said that standards would not be reduced. Nice to meet you. But the problem is that in some areas these standards are already so low that they should be written here that they absolutely must not remain so low. And here are the archives, which have been one of the biggest problems since Minister Virant gave them additional tasks and have no room, not people, not to speak in what ruins some live in. And to save the self-employed in culture in 2010 alone, that's a long way to go. Responsibility must be taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Secretary! The National Programme for Culture is a strategic document which predicts for the next four years in 13 points which are those cultural political priorities, objectives and measures to ensure good conditions for the sustainable and integrated existence of the achieved and further development of Slovenian culture. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of the importance of national culture for the expression of the identity of the nation, especially because Slovenian culture has evolved over past periods in situations that have not always been favourable to it. Today, in all European space, there is no longer any fear of subjugating and uniting Slovenian cultural identity, as European cultural dialogue takes place in terms of highlighting national cultural characteristics, all national and ethical groups. Of course, the vitality of all cultural elements and relationships and their application depend on the recognition of domestic cultural characteristics and their place in a wide range of European and global cultural diversity. We believe that the National Programme for Culture has an important role to play in this regard, so in the Group of Members we agree that the documents of this type are necessary, but the guidelines need to be put in place so that the area is sufficiently flexible and responsive to the needs and trends associated with it and, on the other hand, there is a need for strict guidance and clear targets to achieve all the priorities set in the next period of the programme. As we have assessed in the DeSUS Group that the resolution under consideration in the national cultural programme follows these conclusions in its content and as the thread of the current and future cultural political developments continues and builds on it through the past development strategy, we will be pleased to support it. The first of the 13 areas and long-term objectives of cultural policy is certainly a concern for the Slovenian language, which is as a small national language, despite the recognition of officialism in the processes of globalisation and integration. This area, as a national strategic document, is more broadly covered by the resolution on the national language policy programme, so as to understand from the content of the national cultural programme that it is reduced, but we think it will provide satisfactoryly for those segments of language policy that are essential for preserving, further developing and expanding the usefulness and usefulness of our language in both traditional and new areas. I have in mind, in particular, the computer, media and communication role and the operationality of Slovenian. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the emphasis of the programme on education for cultural professions, as it is of utmost importance for the development of culture, the effectiveness of the educational system, which gives rise to good cultural creators and other specific professions in culture and the country's efforts to provide adequate financial, spatial and human resources support, to the educational sphere of the cultural field and how welcome it is to do so. The area of development and promotion of cultural education and education through quality projects and programmes at all educational levels and all geographical areas also deserves their special place and attention in this programme, especially in terms of increasing the popularisation of culture, as values among young people who are unfortunately severely undernourished today. The book and literature programme, the book activities, ensures the achievement of the objectives of the dissemination of reading culture and the popularisation of Slovenian books at home and in the world, the increased promotion and greater accessibility of Slovenian books, the improvement of the position of creators in the field of humanities and beauty, by means of measures that we believe are appropriate and that the expected effects will be realized through their implementation. If I touch on the points of cultural heritage and in the introductory part of that concern of national cultural policy in connection with the participation of the competent ministries for the restoration of cultural heritage and its protection from natural disasters, we cannot go beyond the conclusion that somehow, we are convinced that it has been neglected in the context of measures to achieve the goal of the entire preservation and development of heritage, to include the restoration of one of the most important monuments of semi-existing Slovenian and world history. We are pleased that the catastrophic consequences of the water catch in the partisan hospital of Franji are being eliminated and that there is no doubt that the exceptions to the national programme do not deserve to be eliminated. Given that heritage is now more widely understood than its traditional designation in terms of the cultural institution of national, historical and aesthetic values, we need to give it, in the context of economic, spatial and social roles, a key place in relation to the economic sphere, in particular the tourism sector, because we believe that it can, in the first place, be due to the promotion and recognition of cultural heritage at home and in the European and global scale. In view of the fact that the main tasks of future cultural policy are among the priorities of the programme, the selected projects are the new building of the Ljubljana University Art Academy, the upgrading of the opera house, the establishment of a gallery of contemporary art and the completion of the renovation of the Modern Gallery, the launch of the renovation of the National Gallery, the National and Technical Museum, the Ljubljana Drama, the digitisation of the National University Library and several others, we support such a selection in the DeSUS Group already because the European Union project, the European Capital of Culture, will take place in 2012 and at the same time we expect in future visions of the national programmes to be included in the priority investment and other cultural infrastructures. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that all areas of culture deserve their place in the national programme and a well-established development strategy. And since we assess and believe that the proposals submitted are well thought out, objectives and actions in line with the expectations of both the profession and the general public and the capacity of public finances, we will also support the National Programme for Culture for the period 2008-2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u137	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! When I looked behind me, I saw my two colleagues, a professional coworker and I automatically dropped the thought of Vesna film, which we could see recently on one of our televisions, I remembered the film Don't wait for May, the music that was beautiful from this film, then I remembered the creator Kozino, who made wonderful music also in my country, if I'm not wrong, and then I remembered that I was happy when I recently found both books, the first and the second part, under the free sun, and then I was glad that for my children's birthday I had a collection of DVDs, all of Slovenian films in the past few years. And I remembered that I am very proud that we have our culture and that we are Slovenians and I also remembered that we have actually become Slovenians just because of our proud attitude about culture and language. And then I am proud to know a number of renowned Slovenian art artists who have taught me many things and whom I respect and visit, give them all respect and respect for the whole world. And it is right that this country has no more laws than resolutions, but it is right that we all know that our national consciousness is within us. In this resolution, I read that I would not lie or pretend to be nice, pages 4, 5 and 6. You can open, you will see, on page 4 is culture and Europeanism and Slovenian language, and then on page 5, I think, the chapter on cultural heritage begins. It is true that the Slovenian language has become one of the official languages in the European Union since we are a member of the European Union. On the other hand, it is true that he may lose because of this. On this, respectable colleagues and colleagues and distinguished representatives of the Government, we will think about this together and we will probably put some more into the resolution, which I expect and want. And then, to the best of my ability, I listened attentively to all the speakers who have defined this resolution, read the two-page display, and I heard - because this is what every person uses - countless expressions that do not appear in Slovenian language, production - production, nation - nationality and so on. And I said to myself, how the hell are we talking about the resolution on Slovenian culture, the resolution on the national programme of culture, if we don't even know how to use the language. I would like to say, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and on our behalf, that we respect all the creators, starting with the first creators, with Mr Školč, forward through Mrs Širce, even through the current minister, it is right that resolutions are formed, but the creators are those who are more or less, one more, the other less, giving emphasis to Slovenia, Slovenia's cultural and its importance. Finally, I wonder whether it would be better to call the resolution as follows: a resolution on the Slovenian or national national culture programme, not a resolution on the national programme for culture. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not vote against the resolution because we would deny our being a national being. Will there be any vote for, I don't know, we'll judge by our conscience. Once again, I warn and ask colleagues and colleagues, despite the vast, rich content of the resolution, we remember, as humanity remembers nature, nature is the one that will judge us, with all our CO2s and the destruction of nature. So is the original language, original culture, word, written word, Slovenian, one that will take us somewhere, written Slovenian music, painted Slovenian paintings, creators, writers of Slovenian words, Slovenian books - this should remain. I'm not interested in Europeanisation, I'm not interested in digitization, I'm not interested in anything. I'm interested in a 16-millimeter or 35-millimeter classic film that we're going to watch in black and white, but even if it's signed by Frantisek Chap, which is called Don't wait for May, or Vesna, or Don't cry, Peter, that's what I'm interested in. As well as the latest films made by contemporary Slovenian creators and made a film out of protest because it cannot make a film. Otherwise, I understand that there is no money for all Slovenian culture creators, but I do not understand that money is for all other creators. I don't mind if the music creators of the modern music of other nations come to us. We must change, but that Slovenian music creators, Slovenian art creators, Slovenian theatre artists, Slovenian film makers, do not have money, despite the Ministry's efforts. I don't understand that. First, they're Slovenians. Then there is co-production and then there are foreigners - at least for the Slovenian National Party, I think. As far as the resolutions were concerned, none of them are superfluous and it is important that the provisions laid down in these resolutions concerning Slovenia's Slovenian culture are respected. Not only do we prescribe them from year to year, but we end up having someone from the protest, I say again, make a Slovenian film because he didn't have a chance to make a Slovenian film. This is the essence of the content, not the resolution. And I really suggest that this is called a resolution on the programme, not a national programme for culture, but a resolution on the programme for national culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the resolution. Mr. Anton Kokalj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Nice greetings on my behalf, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, the subject of culture is a somewhat unusual topic for Parliament. Wider horizon, wider dialogue, vocabulary, alerts us to the use of language. Mr. Barovich, thank you very much. Any comment, any warning in this respect, is certainly welcome. We are often in time distress and use strangers to say as much as possible in the shortest possible time. I myself understand culture as that part of human life that goes beyond the normal nature that is not human. So, a way that allows us to act by people who make our lives human. And the very document that is before us, of course, tries in some mechanical way, in my opinion, to sum up mainly what our predecessors lived and what we are now living and to link into living matter at this time. However, he tries to give, at least, a city or a key place to those matters that are born on a more voluntary basis. I think this is a financial aspect, it should be in a different perspective. At least that's how I look at it. One of the key criteria for this document is the criterion of generation ownership and active interference with certain forms of cultural activity or culture, if we say so, by citizens and citizens. Therefore, I do not think the objectives can be intended for some narrow elites or some exotic needs of a narrow population in Slovenia. But here I would point out one thing that I've been trying to identify through this strategy, through different areas. In a way, I couldn't find it completely clear. In fact, I think that one of the most interesting and in the last ten years, in the last ten years important ways of expressing the current ordinary man to the history of 300 years ago, is, for example, the Škopheloški Passion. Here it is not only a replica of a game or language from 300 years ago, but it is interesting that in this text and with this dramatic game it has awakened the extraordinary initiative of amateur theatres in the area, the outstanding creativity of artists both in music, in play, in language and in any other area, and that this project has actually managed to connect not only the past and present generation, but also an extremely wide spectrum of both artists, experts and very different layers or profiles of people. I was looking for where this resolution actually supports such a project. We know that this project happened eight years ago twice without a cent of state aid. I would very much like to see this resolution point to the fact that, hopefully, the next repetition would not have happened again, so that the state would have assessed that this is a project of local importance, in which thousands of people, not for money, but volunteering, but still need some resources for physical execution. That's what I've been looking for. Under performing arts, music art, cultural heritage and archiving activities, international exchange, nowhere Slovenian language under these criteria could not be clearly found, as a matter of fact, by loving activities, how this strategy could certainly otherwise support such projects that live among people and are of exceptional value, not only in Slovenia, but also in the wider European space. Perhaps this is also a kind of question for government representatives. I would like to have an answer to this question myself, and I hope that I can rightly conclude that this resolution nevertheless shows a different attitude of the country towards such projects. This project has at least as much weight between looking at the identification of the current population with a matter of the past as the Franja Hospital which came into this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. A well-known distinguished minister with his associates! Colleagues and colleagues! I will support the resolution because I believe it is well-prepared, good content and what we actually need as a basis for future years by 2011. But I do have one comment. I am not looking anywhere in the resolution, but I must say, even in the previous resolution, there was no speech on the area, if I may say, of the so-called national symbolism. I believe that this area should also be in a resolution as mentioned in a few sentences. You know, our neighbors Croats are all starting with that recognizable chessboard. I think we're weak in this area. Well, Croats have been doing this since 1991. We could have done more in this area since 1991. This is my comment on the resolution. Otherwise, I'd like to hear a comment on this by the minister. We know that this is the field of heraldics, and that there is, I think, especially legislation that somehow covers it. But if we want to be recognized from this area, either at national level or at local level, then it would be right to try to frame these things somehow in the next four years, and to do more than that, so that we do not do it in our own way. Here I think mainly from the point of view of the local level, and what I said before, we are not the strongest, or somehow I think that we are weak at the state level as well as at the state level. I'll support the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State and other colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The resolution on the national programme for culture 2008-2011 is a document that is diverse and multi-layered. It appears that the areas covered by this resolution are probably not all exactly in-depth or to the satisfaction of us who are discussing it. I went to one area alone, this is the area of language, because I wondered what this resolution meant compared to the previous resolution when, however, something important happened between one document and the other. The resolution on the national programme for culture refers to a resolution on the national programme for language policy as well as to a document which deals as much as possible with this area and therefore was expected to have a different language in this document, or to say that some things in this resolution will be missing because the previous resolution had to write things down by filling the void that was represented by the missing or not existing national language policy programme. In this text and in comparison with the reports on the implementation of the national programme for culture, because I am talking about the previous two reports, but I am seeing some slight progress, it seems to me that it is slowly clearing up some kind of resentment or anger over all that it has brought or has not brought about the Public Use Act of Slovenia, because all things have not yet been lost, what else would have been found. But what worries me about the resolution on the national programme for culture for this period is the numbers that can be found in the resolution, and these are the ones that speak about the means to carry out the tasks that this resolution imposes. These are probably the lowest numbers in the entire program. If you look at the budget of the Ministry of Culture, it plans EUR 131.066, 500 more in 2009, and then for almost incredible EUR 400,000 in 2010 and 2011. Whether that is enough or large enough, I leave it to each individual, but the meaning is often attributed by people to real indicators, and these are the most tangible when we talk about money. And I would not be concerned if some reports, either on the implementation of the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian or in the reports on the implementation of the national programme of previous years, did not contain a warning that the Ministry of Culture touched only those areas covered by it as the Ministry of Culture, but others did not, because it was a matter of other ministries. But if you go to look at how the individual tasks are defined in this resolution, these tasks are those which, however, extend to other areas. There's only one small thing I'm going to show you. Although I am pleased that it is so written in the resolution. But they think differently in the department. This resolution states that particular care should be given to textbooks and other didactic tools for Slovenian language and literature. I'm happy. But if you go to see what else is going on in textbooks and work volumes and didactic aids right now, it's a little different. Or, let's say I remind you of some other things. I am very pleased to read in this resolution the knowledge that for culture as a human right, it is very important that we are all the same in accessing culture and, of course, there is a lot of beautiful written about people with disabilities and interesting, and I have also read here that some amendments to the laws and regulations on culture will also be necessary if the special needs of persons with disabilities are to be taken into account. But today we're going to talk about ratifying the disability convention. There, however, I read the comments of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which is the mother of the Ministry for the Management of Disability Issues, and this ministry received from the same Ministry of Culture a guarantee that no laws and regulations need to be amended so that all rights of persons with disabilities can be realized under existing legislation. If I didn't know what I was reading in the interview, the Misa Milk interview, or if I didn't get any letters from the blind and the deaf, then I would think that sensory disabled people are already happy with everything that's been set up in the RTV Public Institute. And they're not happy. Because they cannot monitor the relevant programmes. Their access to information and cultural content is either impossible or very, very limited. So the things that need to be done are still a lot, and I have to say, in some cases, I see a step forward, as I say. This is how I see in this national programme, however, the awareness that Slovenia is a developed language, that it can act equally in the family or in the society of other European and global languages. So there are clearly things that a person has done with everything that has happened in the past, he is happy to read and he hopes that we will rise only from the recording of mistakes, slips and similar things and if I have had doubts about the need to establish a public service as a language consultant or language repairer, and I will correct my opinion a little, because there might be some additional training or education in language culture, as well as what might have been heard here quite well. I will not oppose the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maja Zupan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, representatives of the Government, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The motion for a resolution on the national programme that we have before us is a general strategic document of cultural policy for the period 2008 to 2011, and as such documents deal with the role and importance of culture in Slovenia, defines cultural policies, sets the field of public interest and lists the objectives and priorities, and it seems important to me that the top of this scale is a Slovenian language. There's nothing special about it. However, it means, at least in my behaviour, an upgrade to a certain amount of enrichment and it points out the dangers arising from globalisation and the involvement in the European Union and, on the other hand, it also raises the issue of new technologies and the space in which we are. It seems particularly important to me, as I have already said, that it gives more meaning, so I understand language, cultural heritage, and the needs of people with disabilities. And with regard to language, I would like the document, at least on the basis of the application and development of Slovenian, both at the traditional level and in the new areas, in particular in information technology, in entrepreneurship at the university, in tourism and so on. I do not think that we can just leave the market in such a small nation and that it must be provided to all citizens, that they can talk as citizens and as users about public matters and that they are also informed in Slovenian. In doing so, I think it is important for the country to take care of the quality learning of Slovenian language at all levels, including at the university, and to create adequate funding for scientific research into Slovenian language, culture and history and to ensure the effective withdrawal of funds from European funds, both for the reconstruction and presentation of cultural heritage and for other projects dedicated to this area. It seems important to me that all citizens and citizens have the right to enjoy a quality culture and that the country ensures equal access to culture, to cultural goods both in cities and in rural areas, where I hope that it will continue to help municipalities and other institutions to rebuild and build cultural homes, cultural monuments, so that quality rich amateur culture will still have the opportunity to live in the countryside. Mainly, if I conclude, I think it is a document that provides a good basis for a free, independent and dynamic culture, and I think it is very important that it emphasises exchanges with countries in the European Union and with the whole world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Petek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u147	Thank you very much. My part of this contribution will not be enough to satisfy sweets in this area and specialists, but I believe that the document is as well-intentioned as it is, but it seems to me that in at least one part it is a bit weak or too few answers are given to me, which appears to me that I will not say weak. I have not been involved in the treatment activities of the Committee on Culture or at any other level, but these answers may have already been given, but it is better to ask twice than to not know what the situation is. As I come from Maribor, it is very likely that I will be able to imagine what some Mariborians are burdening us today with the question of where we are in the realisation of the European Cultural Capital Project 2012 or the European Cultural Capital 2012. We are in March 2008 and the cultural capital begins as an activity, the physical one, in the Slovenian space 1.1.2012, in the meantime, I expect, as it is also written, the promotion activities and these preparatory activities, with which Slovenia will not only be Slovenia, but also cities co-organising or participating in the European capital, we know that in addition to Maribor there are five more of them, probably need to step up these activities and recognitions so that the cultural capital as such will be alive in 2012. I am in this text, which I read on page 24 escapes, and I hope that I can get a slightly more precise answer. What does it mean to take into account the distribution of the financial burdens on the country, the self-government local communities and the private sector in such a way that state resources do not exceed the amount determined by the municipal funding rules? So if we stay in this text and actually at the level of funds belonging to such a project at the level of the municipal funding regulation, then this project simply cannot be implemented. A law on the financing of municipalities if, at least in my opinion, someone has been affected by urban environments and they include all these cities, which are organizers and with the means of financing municipalities, where we know that there is a complex, method and formula of how funds are designed, does not appear to be development potentials. Therefore, it does not see any means that will accelerate urgent programming or investment interventions within the cultural capital. And if these are considered to be regular funds, then none of these municipalities are in a position to carry out this project under the regular funding foreseen for municipalities. And so here is the question whether this is really meant because then somewhere in another part it says that cooperation will be necessary between all ministries, culture, the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and so on. But it is not clear here that this cooperation is absolutely necessary. By the way, I am asking whether this cooperation already exists, whether there is already a coordinating committee composed of representatives of these ministries and cities or cultural capital organisers, in order to be able to feel that this link is already in operation, and whether this coordination and this body, whatever, would be grateful for the answer. On page 25, the state will provide up to 40% of the programming costs, with the total amount not exceeding €50 million. If I understand correctly, this is about programming costs and activities since 2009, for example, when they also start promotion activities, preparatory activities and 2012 when they end the cycle within the framework of Whether it is meant to do so, and if so, I just need confirmation and nothing else. [[...]] I personally believe that, even in connection with the cultural capital, there is somehow some definition missing from this programme towards the cultural tolar. The fact is, the cultural tolar is running out. Cultural Tolar has investments in all these areas, and these are all investments that have been planned far back. If it is only meant to extend the cultural tolar for a period of time, for example, by 2011 or 2013, then this means that already existing and already registered investments will be covered in this cultural tolar. If this is the case, then there is no possibility that these cities participating in the organisation of the cultural capital will actually realise these investment intentions and some are not even able to implement the cultural capital project unless certain investments are made. And before that, we have found that regular sources of funding for the municipalities, such as this is supposed to be, are obviously not going to be available. The cultural tolar, which is supposed to allow some acceleration in investing in this area, is not yet the answer whether we remain in this extended and full content or go to some new projects, new programmes. And these are all questions that will require quick answers because, in fact, until 1.1.2012 there is only a three-and-a-half-year period ahead of us, about how investment processes are going, from spatial acts to documents, identification, to investment programmes and implementation itself, of course, there is not much to talk about in this House, we know about this, and we know that it takes time. So, in this regard, whether we can get some clarification that at least those who indirectly, not directly, will be accompanied by developments concerning the European Capital of Culture, will be slightly better informed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Well, what was interesting was this debate so far on the motion for a resolution on the national programme for culture 2008-2011. I have followed with interest the presentation of some representatives of individual parliamentary groups, one I particularly liked, which was, I will say, so relaxed, but here and there also covered some of the content contained in the draft resolution on the national programme. In short, if we were to say what culture is. Culture is all that surrounds us, and we are part of culture, and that is the notion that we can explain culture in the broadest sense of the word. However, I would like to go on practically here, where my fellow Member, who spoke before me, has actually finished. I am also concerned by the fact that this is the European Capital of Culture in 2012, where there are partner cities and among them Ptuj is also one of the partners of this great project. I am sure that the Ministry has many experiences in this area, not because it has already led, but because it has participated in those projects when, I think, the Hungarians had this when the Austrians and probably their colleagues exchanged important experiences at the time. I'm worried about something else. I am concerned about this coherence or rather the lack of coordination at both national and local level. For if we find that by 2012, when complete infrastructure needs to be prepared, very little time is available in terms of the procedures that we have probably too long in the Republic of Slovenia, however, it is likely that planning investments at local and national level is not best coordinated. I note this because of the fact that 19 municipalities and 19 budgets have to follow some coordinated way of planning investment funds to provide infrastructure facilities in the field of culture or to carry out the European Capital of Culture project itself in 2012. It is interesting, in all those areas that my colleagues and colleagues have talked about before me, but I find something. Here I think we are kind of leaning too much on the past, that what was in the past in the field of culture was quite bearable, as it were, the state gave as much as the culture needed, never gave as much as culture needed, but still. We've heard quite a bit about the cultural tolar. You know, it is true that this is the most reliable source if the country has adopted something that gives regular, monthly or I will say another sequence of sources of funding that is defined and that is certainly coming. However, I would remind you here of some important, I will say, aids, if I may call them, do not insult those who are experts in this field, especially in the film, or other things that you are not most commercially or marketly exploited. I have traced some data where some find that these spaces, resources, devices should still be used more marketably than they are used. Maybe it's a hint, some addition to all the things they've been discussing before me. Cultural heritage and archival activities were also exposed today, and the immovable cultural heritage was also exposed. I'm very much in favour of this area. I come from the oldest Slovenian city, and this is particularly interesting to me, and I would also like to make a contribution to this area in the framework of my obligations. I therefore support all those who support this, but this is the content of the amendment to the updated motion for a resolution on the national programme for culture for 2008 to 2011, proposed by the LDS Group and the Zares Group of Members. I do not see any reservations that the content of this amendment would not be supported because there is no such thing as additional burden on the funds already planned. In short, in the area of cultural heritage, both archival activities and immovable cultural heritage, I believe that the resolution is still being considered and that it will also be exemplary for the period for which it is actually written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the context of this general debate, I would just like to say a few more sentences in favour of this supplement, which relates to supporting publishing. This supplement was created on the initiative of a number of small publishers, from Alf, if we start with A to New Magazine at the end and in the meantime I think there are 10 related publications that we can actually consider almost non-profit. All these publications are trying, with all the incentives that the book is supposed to receive, to get special support for infrastructure for these small publications, for example, in the public interest. In such a way that those subsidies received by the authors either for translations or for original works certainly do not cover all the costs that each publisher faces. You need to think, you can compare the work of these publications with other publications that provide culture. On the board, I was talking about cultural homes, more extensive ones, or if you want Cankar's home. They also have the task of mediating a culture and, nevertheless, they are fully financed as public institutions for their work by state or municipal budgets. While publishers receive part of these subsidies, the work of publishers is also connected with the promotion of authors, with their performances and not to speak further. I also see this discussion as a continuation of that discussion, which was recently linked to the book agency. The objectives proposed here by the small publishers are in one part identical to those pursued by the Book Agency, which we have finally managed to reach practically everyone in Parliament. And it would be very good if we tried to agree on that too. This was one of the few additions that came from outside with some force and pointed to some slight flaw in this program that could be opened. And it certainly is also what my colleague said before me that this does not mean some new funding, but it does mean that this is the setting up of one measure that can eventually be carried out by that agency, which we have already agreed on. It shall be without prejudice to the scope of the funds, without prejudice to these main objectives in the field of publishing and language, and shall allow for a more durable position, in particular, of these small publications in this very complex and complicated market. Otherwise, as you know, the situation is quite simple. This landscape, a publishing house, is divided into practically two large publications, which control the main market share and many of these small ones, who hunt these small pearls and maintain some of the key positions of national programmes. By this I do not mean that the Youth Book and others have completely abandoned this activity, but if you look at their annual reports, you will see that they are in fact more interested in investment and other things than just publishing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u153	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the end, I pointed out, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the issue of the level of the State budget for culture. In the budgets adopted, there are essentially relatively low sums, given previous years, while a larger leap is expected for the period of the new government. It is a pity that this jump was not already in the 2008 and 2009 budgets, because these two budgets have already been adopted. In view of all investments, the proposal for a resolution, or the proposal for these draft budgets and the budgets adopted, is only 83 million tolars. Here I draw attention to the implementation of projects within the framework of the European Cultural Capital with Maribor and with almost all neighbouring municipalities, from Velenje, more in the west, to the entry Slovenian border. Then to the world capital of the book, 2010 will be the world capital of the book in Ljubljana. The issue of the realization of cultural tolar, the first law 32%, the next 35%. Then the big investments that we are promised, such as the National and University Library, where it is likely to be necessary to pool more resources from different sources, and the art academy and so on. Without a strong increase in state budgets for culture in the coming period, we will not be able to successfully implement this resolution in the coming period. However, the money we will have at our disposal should be well cashed. It would therefore be necessary to establish a very efficient investment service at the Ministry of Culture to take care of these larger state investments so that we do not have Opera.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. The national programme for culture for 2008-2011 is not a new document that would lay all things on new foundations, but it would like to upgrade with a document what was somehow already included in the national programme for the period 2004-2007. And because, as with all things, there have been certain shortcomings here, what could be improved, we are upgrading this document, trying to correct mistakes and improve the implementation of such a programme. In the previous national programme, priority was 70, which proved to be too much. There are 55 in this new proposal, and measures or indicators that will actually measure whether we have done what we have set ourselves are more appropriate. The document also contains the theoretical part on culture, who we are, where we are, what we are, what this means in these new circumstances, in which Slovenia is, that is, a member of the European Union. The document predicts support for top-notch creation, while at the same time giving importance to the amateur culture that is spoiled. In Slovenia, there are close to 4,000 amateur cultural societies, mostly funded by municipalities, including about 100,000 members, which is a good part of all those who are involved in the cultural culture and contribute to the cultural pulse in their environment, both to the education of the audience, young people and to the promotion of individual projects. This is also taken care of by the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, which co-finances and assists companies in their activities. And this is certainly an important segment, which we must also promote in advance. It also seems important to me that the link between culture and tourism is forecasting or, somehow, one of the priorities. In practice and in the field, practically these things are already going on and on. Particular attention is paid to creators, including the chapter on the need to bring culture closer to young people, that is, to integrate cultural content more into the school system as well, to promote reading habits, access to young people to access cultural goods, more in educational activities and so on. I will therefore support the national programme itself and I think it is an important and good foundation for everything we will do in the area of cultural policy in Slovenia over the next four years.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, there's been a whole series of reflections and comments, and I'm going to try to sum something up. Because Mrs. Pozsonchev's gone, I'm not going to answer. With regard to the Member of Parliament, Mr Bevik, who first spoke about the resolution. First of all, I'm going to answer what was said at the end, so that the Opera wouldn't happen. We keep an eye on her very carefully, and I think everything is going well for now, unless we're being set up on purpose, like they tried, for as long as we didn't knock down that tree. But it's running really well right now. With regard to your comments in the debate on the resolution itself. Cultural tolar, of course, will have to be extended. Here will be the only question, and some of the other ladies and ladies of the House have talked about whether it will have to be complemented or completed by what is left behind. I would advocate that those things that are written in the first and second cultural tolars actually be carried out to the end. Of course, if other things have happened in the meantime that this is no longer real or anything, those who have suggested this should give up themselves. But until today, I've never heard of anything I wanted to remove from the first and second cultural tolar. But I'm sure I'm up for this, but to meet this quota. But it's going to be a big deal, because if it starts to "kibix" and complement it, it's going to be an endless debate. However, for 2009, at least for those things where there are large investments from the cultural tolar, not least Opera, we have provided, in case of a preliminary guarantee, all the necessary funds, i.e. from the cultural tolar. As far as the living heritage is concerned, it's supposed to be on Unesc's list. We have no reservations here to try not to bring this into play, but because we are not yet members of a convention that we have ratified, we cannot yet put it on this introductory list or an official list. In any case, these things are being prepared for us as well as for others. The budget that's down here. Nothing is reduced because it is in line with the rest of the budget. It is better to write, from the beginning we had this desire, a great aspiration as to how much it would cost, but at the government it was said that we had to share the same fate as the others and we tried to prepare the 2009 budget as it is written here. However, I hope that there will be some more appropriate corrections in the coming month. With regard to Mr Školč, who says that they are following, he said that they are following this resolution with a certain apathy, I think it seems a little unfair, especially because this resolution was preparing something, in my opinion, extremely competent people. This resolution was confirmed, as I said in the introduction on the Strategic Council, twice on the National Council, in the State Council, the Assembly of the municipalities of Slovenia confirmed it, the Council of State confirmed it, the Commission for Nationality approved it. If this is accompanied by apathy, it seems to me that it is unlikely that it is correct for all those who have been constructively involved and this resolution has been confirmed preliminaryly before today's last meeting. The reform referred to by the resolution will require a certain shift in the public sector of culture and a certain reform. The obvious that nothing has been done yet and that time has been delayed. I'm not sure. I think that the next period of this resolution is the right thing to say that this reform is necessary, but this will require a long-term debate, including some analysis, which will have to be started immediately after the next mandate. This, in my view, will be the widest debate where public sector reforms, we already know cultures in some other countries that have been integrated into the European Union and are, as far as I know, still quite successful, in at least two, three countries with which I am aware of the results. What's with the well-deserved pensions? We have overturned the decision recently, this regulation, and we will make some proposals for deserving pensions, although this is not a matter of resolution. The capital of 2012 This has been highlighted by several Members. I'll probably say something else. Above all, this needs to be well prepared. Maribor and the other cities are aware of this. As I am aware, they will also go to Brussels to introduce this plan and programme, or to meet with responsible people, but it is necessary to prepare all programmes very clearly, substantively, materially, that is to say, financially, but with the project itself, at least the official one, that it will not be possible to start before 2009, because Brussels will confirm this if it is satisfied, only in October or even more likely in November, to declare two cities, the Portuguese Guimaraes and Maribor, Slovenian Maribor, as the capital of culture. This will need to be carefully considered, measured and, in particular, prepared in the field of investment and in the field of programmes. How far these things are I do not know, but I believe and trust that Maribor and the other cities will make this concretely quality and responsible, and will also depend on financial resources. Perhaps with regard to what Mr Petek has already said, if I only connect, the investment is provided by the state of 20 million euros, which is from the European funds that the Ministry of Culture will also help and 40% of the programming resources from 2009 onwards. And like I said, it's going to have to be very carefully prepared. However, everything is still in the air before the Commission checks and confirms it in Europe. However, it is logical that the country will contribute, the local community must contribute and the private sector must contribute. Everything will probably not be able to go through the country, but it will provide at least as much money as it is typical of other European cities, which were the cultural capitals, and for which we have just asked ourselves exactly how these funds have been distributed, how many cities have been contributed, and how many countries and how many private sectors. As for Mrs Shirca, there was a whole series of things here that did not talk about the resolution, but that prayer mill constantly about the film and cinema of the Court and similar things. We can even talk about the cinema court. I'm well aware of it, I've been taught and looked at. It's not as unilateral as you said in your speech. In this "voluntary" you read in the notes, perhaps the gentleman who did it was also forced to do so, given that many of the people in charge of it will not be polished here, I do not want to name them, but if you want to, you can not, have fulfilled their duties and it has come to this. However, this is constantly in the field of Slovenian Cinematheque, where you, Madam Member, have had direct influence. Last but not least, the Anti-Corruption Commission has also found that you are also likely to recover financially from a highly repulsive act, and that the public should also know this and once be made public. It was a whole series of speculations and probably even now it is a matter of guessing right in the field of film and also in the area of Slovenian Cinematheque, and in this case perhaps even the cinema of Dvora. However, there are also responsibilities at Ljubljana's Dvor cinema on the side of Ljubljana. Art service, as you spoke, has never been funded before. The Ministry of Culture supports SCCA, which is part of Art Service and Art Service has never been funded before. It is good information, but this information is also obtained elsewhere, which has been taken care of by the Ministry of Culture. And often this portal also says, for further information, please contact the Ministry of Culture. About RTV cultural content. Now it's getting mixed up again. I don't know, we're talking about a resolution, but it's always the same thing to say. So I'm not sure you know well the RTV programs of cultural content, because if you're saying that something is moving in time, name what cultural shows, because cultural shows are a lot. There's never been so many cultural shows on TV. If you think in particular that it is moved, fine, but there are others in "prime this" and remember that RTV has two programs. Just click and watch a party at the same time and another cultural show. Well, this is a debate, we could discuss it for a long time. About the film fund. Was it also said that Mr. Skolcz was talking about torture in the film? It's not like that. So the same thing happens all the time. It turned out that the person who had a permanent and proved to be holding back half a year last year to actually adopt the program, that person suddenly became, I don't know, a high political official of a new political association, I don't know, LDS or, I don't know, which customers, because you're switching, you're jumping from one to the other. In fact, the national programme for culture was very much discussed by the Member State about the failure to implement the national programme for culture for the past year. We are actually preparing a report every year and a report on the national programme for culture is being prepared this year. And this one will come to Parliament in about a month and then there will be a debate, and then we will see how much national cultural programme has been or has not been implemented. It must be said that the information on the success of this collection, and we do not deny the importance of this collection, was not as successful as it seems, of the 2000 collection, which the Member was also talking about. After all, if there are no spaces, we could travel across a wide Europe if it is so famous. However, only some of the images were actually taken out or some of the things in this collection and were indeed shown in some places, but the collection in whole or at least part, for example, was never completed or a consistent part presented. However, we think that a new exhibition or what we propose in the national programme should therefore not be some feud, but should be a new exhibition that should be as open as possible, which would, of course, be as experimental and as modern as possible, as it is everywhere in Europe, and I believe that this will happen. Mr Barovich, he's not here, so he was talking about Slovenian. I'm not going to comment on him, he's talking about a resolution, about a programme for national culture, about foreigners and so on. This proposal, which he also said, is just two words from Slovenia, and the rest are foreign. As in the resolution on the national programme for culture, there is only one word of Slovenian origin and all others are foreign. Mr. Kokal about the Škopheloški solion, a living heritage. Under the new law, of course, this living heritage is protected, it offers protection of the new law on cultural heritage and will be recognised as a living masterpiece by the Škopheloški Passion, and from this it can also be considered in the way of obtaining certain funds for the performances themselves or for some other things concerning the Škopheloški Passion. In order to enter the national programme, I think it is not necessary, after all, Trubar's books are a cultural heritage, and Prešeren's Poetry is probably also not mentioned in the national programme. But that doesn't jeopardize it if it's not in the national program. Mr. Mikolitch on folk symbols. If I've heard correctly, we should be. Look, the national symbols are protected, and I think they're stopped. I think we have special laws about the flag, the coat of arms, all those things that are clearly and unequivocally protected, the Heraldic as such that it is, but I don't know if it belongs here. It's a heraldic, you know, helpful historical knowledge. Those who study pure history have a special object of heraldics and chronology also have paleography, these are helpful historical subjects that are scientific subjects and belong to the field of science. And I believe that this is properly evaluated, rewarded or recognised in the field of historical science as such where they report, if they report, of course, certain projects or whatever. I don't think it would have been in here. As far as Mrs. Ambassador is concerned, they're talking about people with disabilities, if I'm not mistaken. So far, ZUIK has mentioned people with disabilities and their cultural needs and the Ministry of Culture has been implementing the necessary programmes and resources, and I think that we have written this responsibility in the national cultural programme itself quite extensively in various places and have rightly stressed this responsibility. With regard to the amendment, I would just like to answer because one of the Members has already highlighted it. I'd like to say the following. How much they really care about those who proposed the amendment, from the LDS party and some new party, they don't give a damn about it, so I don't even know if they actually read the resolution. The amendment, which is intended to be included in the national programme, is in fact included in Chapter 5, between cultural heritage and archiving activities, sub-chapter of the Real Estate Cultural Heritage as part of the third objective, entitled "Implementation of Cultural Heritage", which refers to the restoration of cultural monuments. The only one who wrote correctly was Mrs Tavševa, for example, who really looked and correctly evaluated this amendment. I'm so surprised and I'm expressing that something's not very credible. An amendment, which is then attributed to each other in order to be credible, in fact, this requirement. However, I would like to say this about this proposed amendment. This includes the fifth objective of maintaining and strengthening the most vital sector of Slovenian publishing and so on. The applicants state that, therefore, most publications in the public interest in the field of culture operate in impossible spatial conditions, is constantly faced with complete human resources malnutrition, problems and therefore the content of the fifth objective is intended to cover non-programming costs. As can be seen from the proposaler's explanation, non-programming costs are infrastructure protection costs for publications. In this justification for the amendment, the applicants also say that the content of the amendment is not State aid, but a recognition of the status in the public interest. The status of action in the public interest in the field of culture may be acquired by societies and by other private law entities, where the provisions of the status of society in the public interest laid down in the Social Act and the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture apply mutatis mutandis. It is also in the procedure of adopting the Regulation on the acquisition of status in the public interest in the field of culture, which can also be obtained by publications if they are properly organised and meet the criteria. However, it should be pointed out that the status thus acquired is not the criteria for granting subsidies. For example, the company of Slovenian writers has the status of a society in the public interest in the field of culture, and a number of publications, which is co-financed by programme, do not have this status, although it has the opportunity to acquire it. The book subsidies fall under the State aid scheme. In the area of culture, such assistance is defined to promote culture and can be granted when it comes to projects that are important for the development of Slovenian culture. However, the notifier must prove the cultural content of the projects. The eligible costs are related to the implementation of the project, i.e.: authors' fees, costs of printing, art equipment, books, sentences and the like. That means you can get an author's fee, that it's the same editorial business, that it's a lecturing business, that's the whole kind of thing where you can get the funds. Payments may also be set here, but not literally wages, which we cannot take into account because this would occur because the proposed amendment means that public publishing institutions would be set up. Now we come up with a problem. If you read these amendments, as well as the comments on the resolution, there is talk of an etched culture and an unlabelled culture and the equation of an etched culture with an unlabelled culture or vice versa, unlabelled. Etablished literally means national culture. And these, of course, are the whole species. It therefore wants to make a state culture to a certain extent, which is totally unacceptable and also forbidden by the European Union in this respect to create public institutions in this way. This is not the case anywhere, and this is also shown by the State aid documents that we adopted in 2003 and 2006 again. And these things, of course, cannot go in this context, as proposed here. Many of the things proposed in this amendment, as identified by the proposers, have already been fully implemented by the ministry. Last time I said, the Ministry of Culture in the field of publishing and book - probably no other field is as complex as I would say, so widely subsidized as the area of the book. And also in the area of promotion, as you talked about, are particularly funds provided. Support is given to publishing books, supporting children's and youth's books, supporting the issue of magazines, beauty and humanities, and everything related to it, publishing children's and youth magazines, direct support to creators, work scholarships, library compensation, projects, Rastem with a book, targeted support for demanding book projects, translation of Slovenian authors into foreign languages, support for the development of reading culture, support for literary festivals and events, international promotion of Slovenian literature, support for book networking, training in the field of the book. So a lot of things in this area are supported. I'm not saying enough. Of course, there's more to be done. But that's why we finally set up the Book Agency as the thing that we actually took a big step forward in this year or last year. And also in the field of the Book Agency, which will now be independent, which will have to be fully responsible for it, this issue will also be brought to the fore. At this point in time, I personally believe that we cannot support and do not support this amendment because of the European affairs of this amendment. I think that, with the resources provided for the book area, this would mean, above all, that if this could possibly be accepted, but it could not, that would mean the withdrawal of those funds that are intended for authors, which would actually reduce the author's resources and deprive authors who are actually the authors of creation, both linguistic, substantive and spiritual. It's a reference to authors, and in fact, it's a denial. I don't think that's doing creativity. The Ministry of Culture, which has tried what we have said before, what is being supported in the field of culture, we have done this before, we have added something or increased resources, especially for creativity. I think we are primarily obliged to support creativity. The national programme for culture is so conceived that it follows, in fact, it supports creativity in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u158	Thank you very much. We're done with the debate. We are moving on to a discussion on the chapter and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 1.4.2008. I am putting to the debate the fifth chapter and the amendment of the LDS Group of Members and the substantive amendment of the Zares Group of Members, but at the same time I find that I have already been overtaken by two discussers. Mr Marinič discussed the amendment as well as Mr Minister. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u159	Thank you very much. At the same time, I would say just two small notes, because the Minister has made a great effort to put this amendment into nothing if it has been mistly located, but he has not said that the one who has been correctly located has not been admitted to the procedure. Why this technology came about, I won't waste my time because it's too little. However, the content is a very simple thing, which we did not only point out in the three groups of Members, but also other groups of Members who did not take this into account, and my colleague Marinic then supported it. This solution and this solution are requested by the press. And now be careful, Mr. Minister: Aristej, Beletrina student publishing, Society for Theoretical Psychoanalysis, Sopfia Publishing, Kud Logos, Gog Publishing, Studio Humanitatis, Krtina Publishing, CF Publishing., Litera, Literature and New Magazine. As you can see, only the Slovenian queen is missing here, which is a label with a similar programme, but with good access to the Ministry. All those who have carefully read the discussion claim that it is not in the subsidies they receive for authors' fees, the room for those costs they are asking for. What we are trying to tell you is that it is necessary to establish subsidised networks in specific areas if things change. So to get back to the cultural tolar program, the idea came even for the bookstore network, because certain things had fallen apart and remained, I suggested it, the same thing was for Artie's network, which unfortunately didn't come to life. And at this point, I think that if we want in this terminology to be fully privatised and abandoning large programmes, it is necessary to support a network of small publishers, to recognise activities in the public interest and some means from this title. That's the whole idea. It's not the whim of the opposition, it's not, I'll say, some big redistribution of funds, but it's an attempt to make things better. And here you will not be able to tell all those people who here today, like someone else, that it is not true what you are saying, that you are right in the coming days. Just as it is true to say that this collection 2000 plus was not presented three times with individual parts, but three times abroad in total, countless times with individual parts and the Austrians paid the whole catalogue at least once. You have also advocated three programmes on RTV in this Parliament and we have shown you that this is not possible. Today you said we had two. I'm afraid we have two, Minister. There's no third. And the basis for publishing is also failing and will be even worse if these types of incentives are not available. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? If not, I conclude. Please, Mr Jerovšek. [[....]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Given that it has been said that someone is more privileged with access to the Ministry of Culture, well, that's a very ugly thing to say. That's not true. All have access to the Ministry of Culture and some publications receive EUR 340,000 per year for subsidies. As I said before, these include material costs, travel costs, airline tickets, work, catering services, accommodations, foreign authors' visits, fees. Nothing like that. Just the wages, the direct ones aren't, which means they're being set up by public institutions. However, these small publications, this network, can connect these small publications and thus reduce and reduce, say, administrative costs. And if the bookstores are falling apart, I'm sorry, that's a big lie. During this ministry, the number of bookshops funded by the Ministry has increased significantly. And also the number of places where these bookstores are, if I am not mistaken, are 26 or 30 of these bookstores, which were previously inappropriately smaller and even in the city. So art cinema, art cinema sounds good, art cinema. If you gentlemen from the national party. So it's an art theater. These are the discurs and the art cinema suspensions. Okay. But this network exists. This network exists. Nothing fell apart. Nothing at all. At least I don't know about that. But if you can give me the information, fine. Nothing's going down. It's true that few people go to theaters like this. But in Ljubljana's Dvor cinema, there was a plan in your mandates to watch, I don't know, 120,000 people a year. We'll see if you can make it to the one who's holding this Ljubljana cinema court now. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You'll get it. [[...]] You know, you're there at work. So it's in the city world. You'll get it. You'll win, and we'll see if you get 120,000 people into this. We'll see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u163	Thank you very much. In fact, the minister has already answered me, so I'm actually only going to ask one question in the end. At this amendment, I was disturbed by the fact that I could not put him in place and that I had identified him in the same way as the Minister had before that he had not been correctly located. Although I thought supporting that part of publishing publishing beauty and humanism was useful, of course. Now, with the Minister's explanation, I have learned that this is actually already happening in the context of this resolution and in the context of the text that is written here, and that this reference to the authors would essentially mean the withdrawal of funds from the authors. Although, otherwise, some of the things that are written here seem logical. That is why I would say today because I had not previously been reported to congratulate the Minister in fact that I had not heard any more serious criticism on the motion for a resolution, and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u164	Mrs. Jerovšek! We are talking about the amendment, not the resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u165	I will. The amendment is part of the resolution, I think. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u166	It's me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u167	Not to the extra one, either.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u168	Please, if you're taking me seriously, or I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u169	Let me get this straight. I was afraid that today some would predict cultural silence on behalf of some part of the subculture, but luckily this did not happen, and I can see that only one amendment is present, that it is indeed a quality product and I am proud that the quality continuation of the work of Rudy Sheliga, who has been mirrored in this and that the management of the Ministry of Culture is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u170	Mr. Jerovšek, thank you very much. You said you agreed with the amendment. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided today in the framework of the vote in half an hour, which is at 18.15 p.m., in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the assembly meeting, which will be resumed at 18 hours and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u171	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the operation of their voting devices, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the reallocation of undeclared insurance capital under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on the recasting of undeclared insurance capital is not suitable for further consideration. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 43 votes against 22. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on the limitation of fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions for the purchase or rental of personal motor vehicles by public authorities, local communities, public institutions, public undertakings, public funds, public agencies and other legal entities which are contracting entities under public procurement rules under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the limitation of fuel consumption and greenhouse gas emissions for the purchase or rental of personal motor vehicles by public authorities, local communities, public institutions, public undertakings, public funds, public agencies and other legal entities which are contracting entities under public procurement rules is not suitable for further consideration. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 20. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments: we will decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 34. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 9. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We move on to 106th Article, where we have two amendments. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment of Article 106 of the SD Group. Explanation on behalf of the groups of Members. I'm opening the procedure. On behalf of the SD Group, Comrade Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u172	Thank you. We have tabled the amendment to Article 106 for the reason that we find that, under this law, the municipalities are subject to extremely large powers to regulate traffic on national roads within settlements. The scope of these tasks is extremely large. 40% of state roads go through settlements. The penalties prescribed by this law are extremely high, and managers will also have to impose penalties for traffic offenders. The appellate authority is, of course, the mayor. And you can imagine what chaos will arise in all 210 municipalities in Slovenia when each individual tries to form his own road safety regime. For we do not have a single mechanism to prescribe what standard a municipality will have to meet in order to exercise and manage these tasks. We are thus proposing a two-year period or 24 months long period to wait for the implementation of this part of the law, to train the directors to do so and to let the municipalities know at all, which and how many apparatus they must buy, because the country is transferring it to the municipalities and, finally, to find out the cooperation of the police and the directors within the settlements. However, this law does speak of traffic being controlled by the governors in the settlements, and police officers are retreating. The Minister of Transport argued that this was not the case, but we proved that this was the case during the debate. And there are clearly different views at the stage of the adoption of the law at the third reading. So this is an additional reason to accept this amendment, to take a two-year period for a sober reflection, and to determine whether the editors and whether the congregations are truly prepared to take on such a heavy burden, for obviously this burden the police were unable or could not carry out in an effective manner. I also believe that the Government actually wants to place high penalties on the local community and on the mayors that, in fact, the body which will have to bear all the criticisms of this law will have to. The Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Interior will not deal with this because it will be the responsibility of the municipalities. And I really think it would be very convenient for us to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u173	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? [[No, no, ……]] I shall open the application procedure for explanations of vote on my behalf. Here you go, please. Comrade Bevk only, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u174	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I would like to speak in favour of the amendment of the Social Democrats' Group, to move the implementation of this article for 24 months and to make it possible for the municipal governors to be able to do this. However, it is a sad fact that police and police officers are practically withdrawing from around 44% of the state roads passing through the settlements. It is said that police officers will monitor and enforce this law only on state roads outside the settlements, while they will leave this work to municipal officials in settlements where state roads run. Thus, municipal officials will practically only be incassants who will be cashiers, but will not carry out other things that are otherwise provided for by the Road Safety Act, as they are not, of course, qualified for such work. Otherwise, the solution to empower municipal officials and municipalities to do police work is completely inadequate. That is why, of course, I will support the amendment proposed by my colleague Weber or our Group of Members, so that, at least within this 24-month period, municipal officials can be trained to do as much as they are able to perform and perform this new work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Given that we still have a desire to explain my voice, I am reopening the procedure. Member Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'm happy to support the amendment, because we've done a lot of stupid things in the field of community service. With a large rump and pump, we have been monitoring that about 44 editors have already completed their course in this country. What are the consequences and results of this? True, the clerks and the editors were in education for four months. But they came from this education with disabilities. After 4 months of education, they are not a criminal body. Another new and additional education will be needed in order to be able to write and share the leaves. The same story will be here. In such a short time, of course, skills and speed gauges and all that is involved, but if we give this to how Slovenian municipalities are on average fed in the field of staffing of editors, we see that we are simply putting the problem from the resolution phase into a phase of non-resolvement for quite some time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I call upon the Ambassador, Mr. Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will support this amendment. We are again dealing with some manner in this law, which is also present in other laws that are currently being dealt with in the National Assembly or even at this meeting of the National Assembly. In fact, the law imposes on some authorities additional powers and functions for which these authorities have not yet been trained. I do not think that the proposer is aware of this problem sufficiently and fully when he imposes very serious, new additional tasks on certain national authorities, for which that body is not qualified. We have also discussed this with regard to the criminal code, the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and so on. This manoeuvring government, which is so vehement and in fact indistinguishable to things that are very important for the legitimate implementation of things on the ground, so in this case I can't help but take my stand and ask you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u179	Thank you. I call on Ambassador Aurelia Yuri to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u180	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Not only am I going to support the amendment, but I urge all of you to support it, especially the mayors. I myself have been in this function for seven years, and with such a task today I would not like to find myself in such a position again. There are no uniform criteria, the officers do not have the authority of the police and the mayors do not have the authority of the appellate authorities, the courts. That's why you're gonna get yourself a really big burden. After all, it is not just punishment, it is a very important punishment, a very difficult punishment. And now you can imagine when the municipal editor will pronounce them, whether everyone will nod him, those who will be punished, and imagine what kind and what kind, even if justly punished, will be at the mayor's door. It's just friendships, affections like that, other benefits, etc. That is why I think that the minimum we need to do today is to gain time to train and give them proper authority, or else the problems will be great. Therefore, at least the mayors, many of you among the Members of Parliament and Members, are good to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? Thank you. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members, 28 to 39. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the same, 106th Article, of the following parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, for 55, for 4. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. At the same time, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the amendments adopted would make the law inconsistent. This way we can move on to a decision on the proposal of the law as a whole. I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go, please. My friend Janko Weber, on behalf of SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. The legal text of the law on amendments and additions to the law on road safety in this context, as before us today, constitutes a non-trust to the Minister for Home Affairs and the Director General of Police. Untrustworthy because the government proposes that the police withdraw from the settlements and no longer supervise traffic on state roads in settlements. He doesn't automatically control the local roads. So the police withdraw from those areas where there are in fact the most problems, the most problems and the most need for police officers to be present. It is clear that the Minister of the Interior is not in charge of this area and that the Director-General of the Police is not in charge of his professional service in this area. On this basis, we would support this law, but since it is also an extremely unreasonable high penalty, given the income situation of citizens and citizens, we will be against this law. I don't know why we can't follow Switzerland's example, which has decided to take into account the individual's income position in terms of sentence and speed, say 30, 40 km/h is the prescribed penalty of 20% of the income that the individual who committed the offence has to pay. In Slovenia, we feel differently. We don't care if someone pays 300 euros, he'll pay 500 euros in fines if he exceeds 20 km in the village. And we just don't care if this offense is committed by someone with, say, 10,000 euros in wages. This is exactly the same for the proposer, for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a non-lifely criminal, repressive road safety legislation and we cannot support this law. We cannot support this law even because they impose undue powers on the congregations. I really stress, I cannot imagine how municipal officials will perform this task on state roads, how we will resolve complaints in municipal administrations, how we will actually mitigate the consequences of those who will have to pay a fine of EUR 1000 or more, and their income is in fact EUR 200,300 per month. How will we resolve the social situation of such individuals? Here is the Minister for Social and Family Affairs between us, unfortunately she cannot participate in this stage in this debate, but I could certainly tell you how many families in Slovenia receive minimum income and how we will then solve this problem if a member of this family has to pay 1,000 euros in fines. These are the reasons why [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Member Happy Friend has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President! It is wrong to expect that if we adopt this law, we will suddenly have road safety guaranteed. This law is based solely and solely on the introduction of new penalties, it introduces new repressions and also introduces the comparability of penalties with the European Union, which is a kind of paradox. Dear colleagues, here is Slovenia and Slovenians far from having European salaries. If you can't do anything better than that, and if we don't know in this temple of wisdom to figure out anything more clever, which he's just calling for us to settle, then we don't have to make such foolish laws. Why and how should this be arranged immediately, as I will now say? If we put heavy transit goods or trucks on the railways, it doesn't cost us anything. We can do it tomorrow, and we don't want to do it. If national roads were to be properly renovated, there would also be no children per year for one class of dead children. If we were to eliminate black traffic points, which are quite a few in Slovenia, we would not have the black balance we have today. And not least, if cops weren't coming to traffic control only when the sun was shining, and if they didn't only know how to write sentences, it'd probably be better. Last but not least, if the National Assembly had not abolished the Council for Road Traffic Prevention and Training, they would also have known to young people how they should behave on the road and also not be what it is today, and some of them in the position warned that there is a variety of post-op or night-time competition in the streets and that I am not saying anything else. If the authorities had ordered the gypsies to register cars and not drive without examinations, and they would have been forced to do so by the means available to them, there would not have been so many fatalities. But we didn't do any of that. And if we were to deal more cost-effectively with public finances, we wouldn't have such bad new buildings. There would be no Troyan tunnel, which is a pure wreck, before which we have to reduce speed to 60 kilometers on the highway, and we would probably have better highways. The new highways were destroyed today, too. Destroyed because we allow inquality construction. Like I said, I'll trust the government when she at least puts the trucks on the railroad, then I'll believe her.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u185	From this it can be concluded that you will vote against it, right? Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? I shall open the application procedure for explanations of vote on my behalf. Here you go, please. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I believe that the traffic situation needs to be regulated. I'm just going to give you one example of the fact that Vice Champion of Formula 1 took 120 kilometers too fast in the past season along the highway in England and was engulfed with 400 euros in translation, because the English don't have Euros. Can you see how much punishment for a Slovenian driver, a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, is for the same offence? With 100 million times under the nicknames, a smaller salary than the vice champion Hamilton's. It's just one case. Today we're going to talk about minimum wage at the end of the line. That's where you remember! And I would like to point out once again, the comparison of the punishments that this country has as its offences compared to the law that we are going to talk about, which we were going to be able to make amendments to yesterday, the Aliens Act, are, to put it mildly, a mockery of the Slovenian people. Let's put it all together and talk about the resolution on national culture, please! I know the Minister is trying, I believe the Ministry is trying, but sanctions and penalties are insane! And we've been pushing these too far in the past. What happened? Look at the statistics! It happened that the result was seen for two months and 34 days. Then there was the outcome of all that no one wanted, much greater than before. So what happens now? The country is rich, we'll have peace for three months, and 270 more will be dead later. Because, look, we don't have highways anymore, we have a two-lane road, whose right belt is reserved for trucks, and the left lane for passenger cars, and it's located as you know it and you know it. I feel that on my own skin every day, and so do you. Thank you very much. I'm not going for this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u188	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I can't support this marriage. Once again, the government offers us to adopt a law that is not sufficiently deliberate, where the objectives pursued by the proposer and then the specific implementation in the individual articles are not in agreement. If you remember, I hope that, at the beginning of this term, this government has proposed over a thousand, and I may even be wrong, perhaps even more, of cases of abolition of offences. At that time it seemed very vehement and very well-intentioned and very generous. Today it introduces with this law such penalties, which are significantly too high for the average citizen of Slovenia and are in no way compatible with the average material state of the Slovenian citizen. Thus, this law is totally unacceptable in this sense. And the preventive function of the state in this law is completely ignored. It has already been mentioned that if at least this law were to be imposed and then in implementation it would be possible to establish appropriate designations of dangerous points on our roads, we could do much about it. In short, there is no preventive function, it is only repressive and even too disproportionate in terms of the material capacity of the individual citizen of that country. And that's why I can't support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u189	Thank you, too. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. I will not support this law, nor will I support my colleagues in the Lip Group. This law has gone through so many stages, through so many treatments, that it seems to me that it is simply a waste of words, all of us, given that the government has not taken into account any opinion, one proposal by the opposition, and believe me, not all of the bad ones that we have proposed that we might really be able to help do so, but I will not deliberately use the fatalities, but I will say to reduce the number of traffic accidents on our roads. The increase in penalties cannot and must never be a measure when it comes to transport in order to prevent anything from happening. The powers you have given through various laws, the Law on Offences, the Law on Public Order and Peace, which you have imposed on city officials. These are no longer city officials whose primary function was to help people when they stopped. They're real cops. And when you say the law was created in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior. I don't know what they've agreed on, if they've coordinated or gone 10 kilometres in a settlement worth 215 or 216 euros, then both ministers didn't have a terrible job. However, we have never received an answer in the opposition in what way this government will actually recover punishments from people who simply do not have the money to pay for it. What's the state gonna do with them - for over 20 kilometers in the village, you're gonna blow their house, their car, their TV?Oh, my God! What are we going to start putting on the rails for traffic offences?Oh, my God! The law is unrestrained, lifeless, and we will absolutely oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u191	Thank you. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u192	Dear President, esteemed colleagues, colleagues, Mr Minister. The position of the Liberal Democracy towards this amendment of the law was presented. I have already said something, but it seems to me that it is still necessary to stress that if the purpose of this law is to frighten the potential violators of road traffic regulations, it is wrong at this point if the customs of Slovenian police officers or future editors remain the same as they have been before. The only thing that's different about this is that now these penalties have become raggedy and in some ways socially dangerous. This is not only about the consequences that people cause in road traffic by their actions, but also about these consequences. These penalties went beyond the limit of endurance at their own height. On the other hand, it is necessary to know that the current law already allows the filling of the budget hole, if that was also the foreign purpose of this law. It's just that criminals need to be caught, and you obviously don't do it yet, and you don't want to do it. You're pulling out of the police force. There won't be any editors. Then who's gonna do it? But there's no money for the radar. Of course, I will vote against this law and we will certainly prepare a new law. For three years we talked about what was missing, preventively, what was missing in the field of education, but there was no listening, as if by changing each minister the world had started to turn into a new one.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We are voting on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 26. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. In the course of today's debate on the draft law under Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed to the National Assembly that it confirm the officially consolidated text of the law. On the basis of the above, I propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly shall draw up an official consolidated text of the Road Safety Act and submit it for approval to the National Assembly. We're voting. There were 64 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 8. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We will decide on the amendment of the LDS Group and the substantive amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to the fifth chapter. Can we get to the vote? [[No, no, ……]] I am opening the procedure for explanations on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go. Comrade Skull, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is understandable that we will support this proposal in our parliamentary group, even though we have heard here that this resolution is not only a coalition but also a partnership. As I said before, there are very few people who even hope that anything can be fixed in the National Assembly. Those who hope so are small publishers. And the little publishers all of us, and you all got this content, asked us to support, like when we were deciding about the Book Agency, costs that would somehow help us survive small publishing. If that cultural tolar law proved to be very good to support the art network and proved to be very good to support the bookstores that have a better offer, now is the time to support the small publishing press, which, I will say, a good part of the translations, a good part of the original literature is provided on this market. In the discussions I had with my colleagues at the hall, it seemed reasonable for everyone to take this initiative. And if the Minister were not stubbornly opposed to God, for all probable reasons, to this proposal, this proposal would also have been fully consensually confirmed. What he was talking about earlier, what all the publishers and authors could get, I got word from some publishers, and they're putting him on a lie. I'm not gonna quote them so they don't get revenge when they're giving out subsidies. But know that in the coming days you can expect a large number of data that will simply show that the Minister of the National Assembly is deceiving and would be grateful if he would let you at least vote in his conscience, if he does not already understand the dimension of the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 34. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a full decision on the motion for a resolution. In doing so, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. Can we get to the vote? You want to explain your voice? I am opening the application procedure for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go. Comrade Shirtz, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u196	Thank you for your understanding. Today, the Minister has shown less understanding in addressing this point, even more so, in this vote he has also decided at least my vote on this resolution. Indeed, in my presentation of the Group's position, I stressed that it is not possible to reject the objectives in the grave and in principle the objectives set out in this resolution. However, that everything that is not recorded in this resolution is very problematic should be. From the point of view, all of the priority plans for investing in infrastructure up to - well, some of you listened, you might know. The other thing I have to explain and say is a profound surprise at the ignorance of the very matter of culture, which was evident through the defence of the Minister for Culture, who obviously doesn't know matter, but doesn't understand it either. And not only does it not distinguish between what is a tabulated culture, where it says it is a national culture, but it also does not know how to defend it in those segments where laws impose on it. Mr. Minister, you may be familiar with the culture of drinking, but you certainly do not know about the problems that arise in Slovenian culture. You are led by cynicism, hatred and contempt, and it is not enough or too much to lead the department and to sign such a document, which in one part has experienced consensus, and in today’s debate has been known and seen to have huge, huge holes. I will, as I say, always in the future support the objectives that are written and that are in favour of Slovenian culture and also of the strategy as set out. However, I miss all those who are not expressed and who do not take culture to where it should still come in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u197	Can we get to the vote? We're voting. 65 Members and Members present, 52 votes in favour, no one objecting to the resolution. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labour body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SD Group will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u198	It's a hall of my word. Madam Minister and Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! It is not customary for parliamentary groups to present their views on ratifications of international conventions, particularly when they express their support for the document. However, allow me to state some of the reasons why I committed, on behalf of the Group of Members, to present the position of the Social Democrats. There is no doubt that we support the ratification of the Convention and the Optional Protocol to the greatest extent possible, so that the Convention can enter into force. We certainly support all the eight leaders that are enshrined in this Convention, who speak of people with disabilities being able to pursue the same opportunities on behalf of whom we have spoken and prepared many events last year. Of course, it is also possible to attach to the opinion of the Home Ministry that the Convention will add value to the implementation of measures allowing people with disabilities to have access to and exercise their rights. In this regard, however, it must be said that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has addressed the question of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: Will any laws have to be adapted to allow the Convention to be fully operational? And all the ministries in the field have found that there is no need or need to adopt additional rules to amend existing legislation in order to ratify the Convention. However, I would like to remind you, my fellow Members and colleagues, that we have just adopted a resolution on the national programme for culture, at the 13th position of the amended proposal, that in some institutions, however, it is necessary to take this into account in all amendments to the laws and regulations on culture. And if that's true, let me quote two messages. One is a letter I received from the Association of Blind and Disabled People protesting the conduct of RTV Slovenia’s leadership, which does not want to ensure that it introduces synchronization, nor do they want to introduce audio-disclosure or picture-description on the screen so that the blind and visually impaired can fully exercise their right to information. This is a letter from the Union of Blind and Invisible Societies, bearing the date of March 26. The journal also contains a letter from the company of deaf and deaf Auris, which also manifests itself to the same institution, which is the public institution of RTV Slovenia, in order to ensure and enforce human rights as a priority for every democratic country, the country should become more involved in the violation of human rights for persons with disabilities. This is why it is the saddest fact that the proposed solutions are technically feasible, as many European and neighbouring countries prove. I have both read to justify not only the adoption of the Convention and the Optional Protocol but also the need to do so. And as we already expect the law on the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons, let me say, however, that the Law on the Enforcement of the Principle of Equal Treatment does not solve with the advocate or advocate of this principle a fully independent institution which would ensure the realization of the rights of persons with disabilities and non-discriminatory behaviour in these cases. Therefore, we expect that, when the Convention and the Optional Protocol are ratified, we will in fact also create conditions for the equality of life of persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u199	Thank you, too. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Member Jožef Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, other representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Disabled people are in our society, in which they count above all success, strength and beauty, and physical flaws are the cause of shame and discrimination, often suppressed. Many rights are granted to them at the declaration level today, but they are not being implemented consistently in practice. However, in all the problems they face in providing their basic needs, the disabled are still struggling to fight for their rights, as other marginal groups do and are very successful at doing so. This does not mean that people with disabilities represent at least 10% of the population. Therefore, in New Slovenia we welcome the activities and actions of the current government or the competent ministry, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in order to improve the position of disabled people in society and make their lives easier. It is important to note that in the preparation of all important documents, persons with disabilities were actively involved in a consistent implementation of the principle of disabled persons. Ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is another major step forward in this area. It is proof that Slovenia is and remains a social and legal country with a hearing for vulnerable groups. Of course, it represents a new commitment for our country to complement its legal order, and above all to implement it consistently and effectively in practice. In this place, I would like to highlight two areas which I believe are crucial to the situation of the disabled. These are education and employment, which does not, of course, diminish the importance we give to all other areas contained in the Convention. These are: awareness, personal mobility, independent life, disabled women and children, social protection and others. Education is a fundamental component of ensuring the social inclusion and independence of all persons, including persons with disabilities, at all stages, from preschool to postgraduate. Work or employment is also the basis of social inclusion, economic independence, independent life and dignity. Despite the new positive developments that the current government has made in this area, there are still many needs and opportunities to improve the situation, the proportion of people with disabilities remains high, the disabled remain unemployed for longer and have lower education and incomes than non-disabled people. In New Slovenia we support the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We want to, and in doing so we will always, as before, actively cooperate to make our society so mature one day that the disabled will no longer be its burdens and taboos, but will see them as its added value. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u201	Thank you for your introduction. The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u202	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We will be happy to support the proposed text on the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Lip Group. The fact is, disabled people are a special category of people in our country who are a vulnerable group because of their specificity. It is also vulnerable when we talk about a concept or reality called poverty. I must say that I hope and wish that the text will not just remain a dead letter on paper, but that it will someday become a reality. Finally, one of the issues raised was the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was also attended by the competent minister. But you know, I'm so much more concerned that the marriage would remain just a dead letter on paper because of the reality that's taking place in our country today. And this reality goes, unfortunately, contrary to a number of articles in this law. I hope to say that today, people with disabilities in our country do not have the opportunity to decide on their own independent lives, because quotas and, as a result, the financing of our country, or by the country, are such that they do not comply with this provision, which is otherwise enshrined in the convention that we are deciding on today. I am convinced that there is a large number of people with disabilities in our country who today cannot regularly and equally monitor study programmes, because quotas by our country are such that they simply do not receive assistance in interpreting, specifically when I speak for the deaf. I am sure that even all categories of disabled persons in our country do not have the right to help. I could still count it. What would make sense is to study the text of the Convention, each individual article and include it in our legal order, in the field laws. From this place, I appeal to the Minister to approach, within the framework of the content of the law on the equalization of opportunities for persons with disabilities, as well as the law on long-term care, to approach in a very sober way, in such a way that the injustices and inequalities that are taking place in our society today will be eliminated. Here I will remind you of the institution of family assistants, which was introduced into our system with the very purpose of enabling disabled people and also the elderly, those who cannot take care of themselves themselves, to give them the best possible life with 24-hour care and assistance. But, unfortunately, you know, respected colleagues and colleagues, with the Social Protection Act that was passed, again, unfortunately, under this government, a great step has been taken back. Both family helpers and disabled persons were injured, i.e. those in our society who are basically destined for this status or assistance. It is a social security service or an extended term of office of our country, not within the framework of an institution, which is ultimately the subject of this Convention. On the other hand, I wonder whether the capacities of institutions in our country today are truly such as to follow needs. I say no. But in this area also long-term plans, strategies, resolutions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, unfortunately, do not follow needs. As has already been said, we will support the above - mentioned law or document in the Lipa Group. Once again, it is up to the Minister, who is the first among the responsible and competent to harmonise or regulate sectoral legislation by eliminating injustices, even the unconstitutional developments currently permitted in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to submit an amendment in the third reading of the amendments. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, all present voted in favour. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro on mutual assistance in customs matters. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labour body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, all 60 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on mutual assistance in customs matters. The draft law was also submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the assembly this time. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labour body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 59 votes in favour, none against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the European Community and its Member States on one side and the United States of America on the other. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labour body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement on Social Security between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Administrative Agreement implementing the Agreement on Social Security between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Miran Potrče to present the position of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Let me speak because I'm the only one who's reported in my own name or let me go back to the bench. Thank you very much. I'll back the convention. The Convention solves many issues of the social situation of people who lived in various parts of the former Yugoslavia during different periods. However, I am calling to say that I have in mind that I have warned several times that it is not better for some situations. This is for those who have spent part of their working life in Bosnia and Herzegovina and part of their working time with us, because now their pension will be calculated on two very different bases. They live with us and have two kinds of pensions. Correctly in a formal sense, in a substantively difficult way. As a result, I have also repeatedly pointed out these issues, and I have also asked the Minister of Parliament a question, and I have received an answer from her that they will try to solve these problems because they are aware that the solutions to people are not fully correct. Unfortunately, we're moving on. I just wanted to say it for the sake of my conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u205	Thank you very much. We have concluded with the presentations of the views of the groups of Members, including the debate on their own behalf. However, since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Explanation on behalf of the Group or on behalf of the Group of Members? Does anyone want an explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. An explanation in your own name? Comrade Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, This agreement saves a number of citizens who have established or have a working life in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia. It's a document like that. However, the agreement imposes disproportionately greater obligations on the Republic of Slovenia than on the other parties. Why? Similarly, agreements were concluded with Croatia, as well as with Macedonia. And these agreements came within the framework of an agreement with data which indicated approximately such obligations. It was later found that there were no real, serious data that these obligations were about ten times higher. In the same way, an agreement was reached with Bosnia, for which there are no relevant data since 1976 to identify the obligations arising therefrom. The question of what these obligations are was transmitted, but not as budgetary obligations, but as the liabilities of the funds - health insurance, pension insurance. However, we know that such pension insurance provides funds from the budget. Also, 90% of the unemployment insurance rights. Therefore, this agreement imposes great obligations and does not adequately address the issues of the child allowance because it is managed in a "residual" way, and in particular the problem of the pension budget. These are also the reasons why I will not support this agreement because it imposes too much obligations on the Republic of Slovenia, which will not only be realized this year or next year, but in the coming years.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the law has been adopted and I conclude this point. We're moving on to 27. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Convention on Social Security between the Republic of Slovenia and the Argentine Republic and an administrative agreement on the implementation of the Convention on Social Security between the Republic of Slovenia and the Argentine Republic. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labour body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. That concludes this point. We're moving to 28. At the agenda item, this is on the proposal for an act on the amendment of the act on the notification of succession to the Conventions of the United Nations and to the Convention adopted by the International Atomic Energy Agency. The draft act was submitted for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft act was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labour body, which also reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body under the second reading, it is not possible to make an investment in the third reading of the amendments, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for an act. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 59 votes in favour, none against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the act has been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We move on to the 16th A-point of the agenda - this is on a defensive proposal for a law supplementing the law on minimum wage determination, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and I give the floor to Mrs Marjetka Cotman, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Law supplementing the Law on Minimum Wage in order to ensure higher material and social security for employees receiving minimum wage. The current law, which we are supplementing, does not contain provisions which would allow for the exceptional harmonisation of the minimum wage required for a different price increase from the one envisaged in the last harmonisation of the minimum wage. The law proposes an increase of 538.53 euros from 1 March to 566.53 euros. The law provides that employees or employees shall have the right to payment of salaries for their work from 1 March onwards. The proposed increase was coordinated with the social partners at a meeting of the Economic Social Council, where we also discussed the continuation of the work of the special expert group, which will prepare an expert basis for the system law on minimum wage. The proposed increase in minimum wage is an exceptional solution and is another measure proposed by the Government in order to facilitate the survival of workers with the lowest wages in a situation of accelerated price growth. Therefore, I propose that you consider the law and adopt it as a matter of urgency, so that the beneficiaries of minimum wages can receive such certain salaries in March payments already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u209	Thank you, too. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here! The draft law in question was discussed at the 21st emergency meeting, on 26 March. Ms Romana Tomc, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service Mr Božo Strle, representatives of trade unions and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia participated in the work of the Committee. The legislative and legal service has had one concrete comment on the law in question, which we have removed by adopting the amendment of the four coalition groups. In the debate, all the debaters, the proposal for a law, welcomed and supported it. Some also regretted that he had not been prepared before. They also considered that workers should be able to provide social security on their own. They also felt that this change would make families with children the least. In doing so, several debaters also raised the issue of the actual effects of this change on an individual, unless it is followed by a change in income legislation. If there is no change, many workers will have to pay more income at the end of the year and will only be temporarily better. While some discussers agreed with the extraordinary rise in minimum wages, they expressed concerns about the additional costs for businesses and felt that productivity also needed to be increased. In addition, the view was expressed that the productivity of enterprises is primarily the responsibility of management, the management of the company and significantly less or virtually none of the recipients of minimum wages. As it is said, an amendment was tabled, which was unanimously adopted by the Committee and is also an integral part of the amended bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rudi Veršnik will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to the secretary and secretary, nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues! Before us is the last law in a package of laws by which the Government has alleviated the social hardship of the most endangered groups of the population of the Republic of Slovenia. We are already at the 32nd Extraordinary Session in January, 14. 1. 2008, adopted by emergency procedure that part of the legislation which is exclusively under the influence of the Government. Firstly, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, which gives additional relief to the most in need of assistance, is the one with the lowest income. Secondly, the Protection Supplement Act has increased the protection allowance for those pensioners who have the lowest pensions and are most affected by the inflationary wave. And thirdly, the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which increased the child’s allowance. All these measures, which entered into force on 1 January 2008, have eased the hardship of citizens and citizens with the lowest income, to which unexpected high inflation has severely reduced living standards. Before us is the last law in the package to mitigate the negative effect of inflation. I am talking about the proposal for a law setting a minimum wage which, after a long-term negotiations on the Economic and Social Council, was not agreed until 14 March 2008. That's why the government immediately sent him to the legislative procedure. The current Minimum Wages Act does not provide for an extraordinary change, but only once a year to adapt to the increase in living costs that took place at the end of July and entered into force on 1 August. This time we are witnessing a change of law that allows for an enormous increase in the minimum wage, i.e. outside the regular annual cycle. The proposal for a minimum wage law has only two articles. Article 1 states that the minimum wage is increased on 1 March 2008 and amounts to €566.53. At the same time, it is explicitly stated that this increase is without prejudice to the implementation of regular coordination at the end of July. Article 2 lays down the validity which shall be immediately following publication in the Official Journal. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree that the increase could also be greater. It is true, however, that the proposed, legally fixed amount is harmonised between the social partners and is good, as shown by the fact that none of the partners is fully satisfied with it. Allow me to give you further information that the number of recipients of the minimum wage from 20,000 in last year has dropped to 17,000, which certainly shows a good situation in our economy. The proposed new gross amount of minimum wage is 5.8% higher than now in force. This increase will be received by employees for months in March. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party agree with the proposal for a law establishing the minimum wage proposed by the Government, and we will therefore fully support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u214	Thank you for your word. Once again, hello, Madam Minister and Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues! Social Democrats will be extremely supportive of the increase in minimum wage. In doing so, I would like to highlight the following. On 28 August, with the initiative of the Ministers for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, we called for a reflection on the extraordinary harmonisation of social transfers and other measures to improve the situation of those with the lowest income. It's a failure. In September we addressed to the President of the Government the question: How will the Government act? On 17 October, we addressed or addressed a written question to the Government: How does it plan to act on the unannounced or unexpected growth of living needs and the large share of the diet in the budget of people with the lowest income and effects on their actual situation? There was no sense of problem, no willingness to do anything. Indeed, we are then in January, February, and now we are adopting some laws that finally save things back, and even if we look at the rise, an extraordinary rise in the minimum wage of 5.8%, this does not cover the actual growth in inflation, which is 6.7%. So much for numbers. So again. We're happy to raise the minimum wage, but we regret that it's too late. Increasing the minimum wage is in fact about the dignity and obligation of the state and capital to those who cannot enjoy the progress of society and high profits. These are growing faster than the rise of wages. Especially the lowest of these. In 1995, the Social Democrats introduced the lowest actual salary, which was 40% of the average wage, of course in the current government. With the guaranteed salary, which was then less than 28% of the average wage, this was an important advance for the most vulnerable employees. Unfortunately, in more than a decade, the minimum wage did not reach a recommendation to be close to 60% of the average wage, but ranged between 40 to 43% of the average gross wage. We expect that the social partners will continue to negotiate wages and also agree in the Economic and Social Council on a minimum wage law, which will also set out a methodology for increased harmonisation of minimum wages compared to other salaries. It is unacceptable that we have so many employees in the country at the threshold of poverty or below the threshold of poverty. 3% of households in which everyone is active, active all year round, live below the poverty line. This is really totally unacceptable. In the interests of clarity, it would also indicate that the guaranteed salary to which individual employers refer would finally be eliminated, but this is less than 19% of the average gross wage in the country, according to the latest data. In addition, the Social Democrats are concerned about the calculation of what will be the actual increase in the minimum wage in the light of the changes in income legislation, as the current increase in monthly wages in 2009 may be a blow to the beneficiaries of the minimum wage with the return on income in the case of additional payments such as the annual leave amounting to perhaps a minimum cadastral income, some calculations or rewards and similar small benefits, which will eliminate specific benefits for some who will exceed the threshold of special benefits. In particular, we have not received a clear answer to the question of what this raise of minimum wage will mean for households with children. Finally, let me stress once again that the Social Democrats will support the law, but we have, as has been said, many concerns and questions not to say fears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u215	Thank you, too. Comrade Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u216	Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Colleagues, Minister and Secretary of State. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will raise the minimum wage to 566.53 euros by 28 euros or 5.23%, of course. Although this is a current action, which now, according to inflation data, of course, does not even reach an inflation rate, it will be welcome, at least at the moment. However, it is important to be aware that without changing the system of problems there will be no less problems, but there will be more to accumulate. The big question is that it can happen that at the end of the year someone will pay more income due to this raise of wages and that this will give him a gift in some way in the way. But at this point, it's probably not about the proponents or the potential recipients. Surely there is still a long way to go to a net increase of €45, but in the Liberal Democracy we are of course aware that those with the lowest income are, of course, the most exposed at this moment and that it is necessary to mitigate, however, the problems caused by inflation need to be addressed. That is why, as has been said, we support an enormous increase in minimum wage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u218	Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, once again a very nice greeting! Let me introductoryly say that Members and Members of New Slovenia will support the amendment of the minimum wage law. We respect and are pleased that there has been an extremely high consensus between the social partners on this content. From the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, this is already the third law this year, which mitigates the negative effects of inflation and requires an objective recognition. The minimum wage, as proposed by the law, is greatly increased and the work carried out since 1 March 2008 amounts to 566.53 euros. Workers are also eligible for work from 1 March 2008 to a minimum wage. As regards the problems that some have expressed with regard to the Income Act, it has been clearly stated on the parent's labour body what impact this increase in minimum wage has, and it is not concerned that this increase in minimum wages would be borne by the Income Act. When this law is considered, we must have objective employers and employees or better employees and employers before our eyes. We are all aware that it is extremely difficult for a family to live and spend a month with a minimum wage. That's a fact. We need to be particularly sensitive to people who have a minimum wage as the only monthly income. Of course, we have to get in front of our employers, as we have already said. And what is our concern? Our concern is that, for example, in a company that has almost 4,000 employees and where 2,500 people are on a minimum wage, this law causes an additional cost and can mean loss. But if we look at the blackest scenario, the loss of almost 4,000 jobs. This means that either the company or the companies can be sunk. Statistics need to be looked at, for example, at how many companies have been dealing with losses last year, and that this law actually represents an additional cost burden on the cost of work and a significant impact on the even worse business outcome. There are about 13,000 such companies and there are about 80,000 jobs in these companies. On the other hand, by this law, the National Assembly makes some appeal or some pressure in a positive sense on corporate administrations to actually increase their efforts to improve business results in order to provide employees with good pay for good work. As I said in the introduction, Members of the New Slovenia Group are pleased that this law has taken place and that we are trying to mitigate the negative effects of inflation at least minimally in the wage segment. With the support of this law, however, we would like to reiterate that people, i.e. workers, are the largest capital of any company. However, this country will certainly have to do more in the future to motivate honest work and in this particular segment, when we are talking about minimum wage, it will probably be necessary to consider how to remove the bitter taste of the ancient past, when it has been agreed that the minimum wage belongs to a full-time worker, irrespective of the results of his work. This is, however, with all due respect to workers with minimum wages, but certainly this is demotivating for those who do what is right. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u219	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by colleague Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again for your word. Introductoryly, we will support this law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. At the same time, I, at least myself, am a little calm and perhaps positively surprised that the Government has finally managed to slightly revise itself in its incredibly asocial and solid relationship on the issue of the adoption of the amendment to the 2006 Minimum Wage Coordination Act. I argued at the time, because there were already clear patterns of inflation that the harmonisation of the minimum wage for the budget memorandum with the rise in prices of living needs meant a real backlog of the minimum wage, and this has also happened. In 2006, we agreed on this basis on a minimum wage of 2% on 31 July. This year, the minimum wage has fallen by 2%. In 2007, we coordinated it, with all the behaviour of living needs and inflation, by 3%, we reduced the additional real state of income by 3%, and it is perfectly normal that every government that has little relation to social justice does something like this, with a one-time rise in minimum wage, but this raise from EUR 538.53 to EUR 566 means 2.5%, which is still strong below the real value of the 2006 remuneration. This is what we say to people who have to do full-time and uncompromisingly, you know, themselves can have very little influence on their performance, they have their own management over themselves. So if we look at the image forward, the last inflation data in 2008, from a few days ago, is 6.9%. Already, the value of receiving the minimum wage is strong below the real value of 2006. What happens when this income is adjusted to 31? Seven. - the minimum wage will fall in real terms. The average cost of living needs may be slightly lower than inflation, but not significantly. Until we have a revised attitude towards the issue of harmonisation criteria for minimum wage, we will change it from the anticipated growth of living needs, so long will we have a stepmotherly relationship with these people who must live on this minimum income. In my view, I am saddened by this kind of work, and I sincerely hope that the new government will have a more social sense for this issue and a more structured attitude towards issues as sensitive as the issue of the harmonisation of minimum wage. Of course, the Emissary Group will support what is little more than nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u222	Ambassadors and Members, Madam Secretary! Given that the applicable Minimum Wages Act does not provide for a fuse which, in exceptional social circumstances, we have witnessed for several months, would allow for the harmonisation of the minimum wage for work in view of the actual growth of living needs, which is significantly higher than the expected growth, which is the basis for a single annual harmonisation of the minimum personal income in 2007, on average for up to 23,000 employees, the proposal for an extraordinary increase should certainly be supported. The expectations of this group of Slovenian workers would not be met, they should be satisfied with what they have been promised and what they will receive with the approval of this law. This is in line with the Government's claim that, given the recently adopted income changes, 45 additional euros per month, which is a real visible improvement in the payment sheet of 23,000 workers and workers employed mainly in the private sector, according to the current net remuneration of around 390 euros. However, not later than a year after they receive informational income calculations, they will realise that, due to the premature conclusion of the calculations and the failure to respect other factors affecting the final result, the country has been creating only a false belief for a year about improving their unsustainable social situation. In order for the actual increase for the most critical group of employees, which this year is recognised as an additional €2,000 in income relief, to be the same as promised, the calculations of the social partners have shown that they should give up both the annual leave regression and some other benefits under income legislation. Given that the current income regime is inadequate, it will need to be upgraded and the expectations of the social partners in this regard are, of course, justified. Of course, it will be necessary to make a lot of efforts to correct all the unconscionable and unconscionable moves that have led to the existing anomalies in the area of payment policy in relation to income and broader social issues. With recent proposals for social laws and even today, the government has in fact acknowledged that in the past it has dealt with certain social policy issues with considerable complexity, superficial and without a sense of greater responsibility for the socially weak strata, and that it has behaved quite indifferently towards the first scientists of negative inflationary flows in general. In the DeSUS Group, we regret that warnings and attempts to remedy the injustices and the unsustainable situation of the socially weak, those who are constantly seeking to improve the general situation do not run into the possibility of active and equal social partner treatments that, in our belief, could lead to better and lasting solutions in the field of social policy. Despite what we have said, the Ambassadors of DeSUS will be supported in raising the minimum wage. However, we expect to see a timely and constructive approach to such measures as will ensure the implementation of the promised.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Ambassador Srečko Friend will present the position of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This raise in minimum wage is directly shameful and humiliating for those who have to survive after today's calculation and today's current minimum wage price, €338, which we raise to €566. So 538, sorry, 566. That's 28 euros. In the fact that 41% of our citizens and citizens are already on social transfers, such and different, and that 25% of our citizens and citizens live below the poverty line, this is a disgraceful act. For me, as a Member, this government would be responsible if we decided today to essentially impose on the Government the duty to align wages with inflation growth. This would be fair and fair, and thus the government would commit itself and, of course, stand for the weakest article that has been discussed so much and, of course, today, the government Members here, who have a finance minister, would not talk about the fact that we are going to sink businesses with this law that we are adopting today. Are workers ultimately guilty of inflation in Slovenia? They're not guilty of anything, and if I give you other information, then I can say once again that it's just embarrassing what we're accepting today is that something is better than nothing. I would just like to tell you that this quarter's cost of living has increased by 14.9%. 14.9% only ate food. You know, we're giving charity here to 28 euros to those who don't know how to pay electricity, water, kindergartens and, of course, other bills coming to them. And finally, when we talk about doing some good work: today we have adopted a law in the National Assembly that will impose upon citizens and citizens to pay for a crime that will be ten times higher if they make a mistake in traffic. Ten times higher than this guaranteed wage if we take the middle penalty or role that we have set or heard in this law today. Our mouths are full when we compare wages with Europe, of course, and somehow it doesn't go together. And I would very much like to say once that our Slovenian worker is doing fair work, doing better than a European worker and deserves a European salary. If that were the case, we would probably not accept this addition to this law today. And once again, I call on the Government to consider taking full responsibility for the economic policy it is leading in the Republic of Slovenia and once again to come to the National Assembly with a proposal and a commitment to cover wages in the minimum amount for the factor for which it is to blame, this is for the inflation growth factor in the country. Only this month is inflation there around 7% and I ask you nicely, not "paint" the Slovenians and Slovenes, what you have agreed on is too little and you will have to again, because you are doing very badly and you are doing worse every day with the entrusted tasks given to you at the time of taking over the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u225	Thank you. The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u226	Thank you very much again for your word. The minimum wage will increase by €28 after months of non-exhaustive negotiations when this law is adopted. I speak in gross amounts, my fellow Members and colleagues, at a total of €566.53 gross. What in other words means a real amount, i.e. the amount by which citizens and citizens and workers and all those whose transfers are linked to the minimum wage must survive. That's €399. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We are also talking about 399 euros and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, some government representatives have a full mouth of gratitude that the minimum wage has increased by EUR 28 in gross amount. I'm asking you if people can make it through the month with that amount. What happened to our country, which has social justice in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I say that with a number of measures under this mandate, namely, the Social Protection Act, the Employment Act, unemployment insurance, including that unfair law on coordinated transfers, we have made a big difference from social justice. Our citizens and citizens are no longer largely guaranteed social security, but we have come to a time when we can talk about social insecurity. If a representative told me or one of the representatives, yes, because we gave the pensioners a special law on the protection allowance. But it must be honest with you, in 2007, this government took the right to an allowance for pensioners who do not even have EUR 400. Is that social justice? Can we build, build, and build on people honestly? In addition, the media alerts us daily to the reality of the situation. In Slovenia, hidden poverty is increasing. The most endangered groups are older, single parent families, disabled people. During the first three months of this year, humanitarian organizations provided food and clothing for as many people as they did in the same year or year. It's real. If in January 2007 16,000 workers and workers received minimum wages, this figure increased to more than 22,000 at the end of 2007. Then there are the pensioners. There are more than 200,000 pensioners, those who do not receive even EUR 400. Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is a need to build on this data, not on cheap demagogies, for which there is actually a lot of hidden. But this cheap demagogy, which may have a current psychological effect, you know, doesn't fill the plates. I would like to; and at this point I really appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, even though we have heard today that this is the last part of government laws to mitigate the effects of inflation; that it also approaches to help single-parent families, who are the next group to be subjected to poverty, social threats. There is little that needs to be done, only that the dependents, which are not bound to the state budget, are required by parents to coordinate regularly, not only once a year back, but regularly, several times a year with rising prices of living needs. On the other hand, just to conclude, it is undoubtedly a law worth following, but I wonder - what will this law mean when people fulfill their income obligation? If you'll let me finish. It would be fair for colleagues and colleagues to ask themselves whether those people who are capable or able to survive with a minimum wage of €399 over the month deserve not only a Nobel Prize but another prize. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] because they've broken all the laws of the economy. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-04-02-SDZ4-Redna-37.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the domestic working body would not have led to the lack of harmonisation of the law's proposal. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I also conclude this item on the agenda. I also conclude the 37th meeting of the National Assembly. But let me just warn you to take all the material out of the hall for the preparation of the hall for tomorrow's activities. Have a nice evening ahead.
