ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 41st meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: [[Ferry]] Horvat, Victory Jelinčič noble, Bojan Kontic, Drago Root and Mag. Anton Rop. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investments in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Health of Zofija Mazej Kukovic. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u2	Good morning, honourable Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investments in Public Health Services was amended already in 1999 and 2003 to the extent that the possibility of operating this Act has been extended. Today's proposal also speaks only of an extension, until 2011, with the single objective of ensuring that ongoing and open-ended investments, as regards this part of the financing, are carried out smoothly. Today, about EUR 28 million are reserved for investments from the Paediatric Clinic to neurologic investments, Celje, Slovenj Gradec and so on. And if this fund were to close at this time, this would pose an additional difficulty in re-searching, in placing these earmarked funds, which are also balanced with national development programmes, where investments in all public institutions are defined, that is, mainly in all hospitals in Slovenia. There is also a part of depreciation, 20% depreciation from public institutions, which is then allocated in accordance with the investment development programmes. In the past, 271 million euros were raised in the years that this law was in force. Of course, it was originally planned to be 547, but this is a value that has been used exclusively purposely, because otherwise it cannot be used otherwise. So we want to be able to finish, at least finish these investments, because the law is proposed by 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. I give the floor to the President, Mr Ljubo Germić, for the presentation of the Committee's reports. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues, colleagues and distinguished visitors who accompany us on the balcony! The Health Committee is next to its 19th emergency meeting, 10. Seven. 2008, as a parent working body, considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. This proposal was forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. Representatives of the proposed law, namely the Ministry of Health, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, the Institute for Health Protection, the Office of the Government for European Affairs and the Legal and Legislative Services, attended the meetings of the Committee. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the SDS, NS, SLS and DeSUS parliamentary groups to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4. The Committee took note of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service which formulated specific comments on Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, which were taken into account by the amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. The members of the Committee also adopted the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons on the draft law. In its opening remarks, the representative of the applicant stressed the basic objective of the draft law, which is to ensure the financing of investments in line with the objectives of the national development programmes over the period 2008-2011. The novelty shall also define the compulsory placements of liquidity surpluses in a special account until their intended consumption is determined in accordance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act. In the debate, some members of the Committee drew attention to the time pressure that dealt with the proposed law, especially given that the funds used were not specifically mentioned to date and how much resources would be spent in the future. There is no investment review and monitoring of budgetary resources in this area is not satisfactory. They suggested that a special investment service should be set up at the country level to monitor health investments. A similar problem is in road infrastructure, military equipment and elsewhere. The members of the coalition's committee pointed out that the non-admission of the novel would mean that at the end of 2008, unused funds would be spent inadvertently under the state budget. However, the key purpose of the law is to ensure further dedicated use of resources by 2011. In addition, this bill does not cover all investments in health care, as there are also amortisation funds, other state budget items and local communities and donations. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the members of the coalition. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I ask Mr Ljub Germič again on behalf of the LDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye again! At the LDS Club, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions, which is co-founder of the Republic of Slovenia. Support for a simple reason, because we want good practice, a positive model introduced by the previous government, namely the creation of a special account, a special fund where funds are collected for investments in public health institutions, so that these funds are collected separately from other budgetary resources. For this means that the funds have been earmarked for investments, regardless of the end of the financial year. Of course, it is incomprehensible to us and at the LDS Club we cannot agree on how to accept that novel. Why not? We don't understand why the government was waiting for the last regular meeting of the National Assembly to come up with a bill for extension. Because from the various debates in this mandate, it was often called upon the Government to prepare an appropriate amendment to this law, so that this good practice would not have to be interrupted at some point. That is why we do not, somehow, support the urgent procedure for adopting this law, because the debate on this law should, of course, be significantly broader than it will be possible to do today. Therefore, it is a matter of extending the law without the relevant data provided on the realisation, the use of investment funds. We do not have adequate analyses to support, of course, the fact that the analyses so far have been carried out. And the weakness of the law is also the fact that it is not clearly stated for what purposes the Fund will use, as the applicant failed to provide any relevant documents to support further investments. So confused is the national, secondly the national development plans. It is certainly also a flaw in this law that the extent of the funds in force remained unchanged from 2003 to 2008. In fact, it is only a conversion of tolars into euro, without giving a clear answer by this law what this will mean for the next investment period, i.e. for the period 2008 to 2011. This issue is all the more important, as the explanation of the financial consequences of this law states that there is no need to provide any resources in the budget for the implementation of the law, and we know that any budgetary debate has substantial amendments to this item. Extension of the law until 2011. Why this year was chosen, if we know that the development programmes under consideration in the budget are a type of investment that will go beyond this period, this means that they will not be completed by 2011. The government also cites as one of the fundamental objectives of adopting this novel in order to enable the effective implementation of investments and the economic use of public money. Of course, we would be very pleased if the Government followed this objective throughout this mandate, but unfortunately we must find that the practice of this government in this area has been different from that set out in this objective. Just remember the complications of purchasing the operating tables, where the original purchase was substantially overestimated. Let us recall all the complications surrounding the construction of the Oncology Institute, where today, despite the fact that the Health Committee has devoted much time to this debate and clear data, this is not the case. Surely we also remember the friendships of tax advice in the construction of the Paediatric Clinic. Of course, it would be good for the Government to hear why, during this 4-year period, it has completely ignored the Committee on Investment in Public Health Institutions, which is an integral part of this law. So, I have listed a number of concerns that need to be identified if this law is to be dealt with on a regular basis. We are therefore convinced that this law will necessarily need to be re-listed at the beginning of the next mandate, where we can properly discuss how the network of public health institutions is defined, how the needs of usable health services are defined, so that we can also systematically and substantively plan the necessary resources within all these responses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Ms Majda Zupan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-known Vice-President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues, valued visitors and visitors at the gallery. The Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia, entered into force in 1994. However, it was extended in 1999 and 2003. The Ministry of Health has created a special account where investment funds are collected separately from other budgetary resources, and during this time the positive effects of legal solutions have been demonstrated for the implementation and completion of investments in public health institutions. This has enabled and also allows the funds to be actually spent on investments, irrespective of the end of each financial year. The novelty seeks to maintain such a model in order to ensure that investments that have started, are under way and are in the final phase in order to keep this model up until 2011, which would enable more efficient implementation of investments and the economic use of public money. The extension of the law also means the continuation of the acquisition of an amortisation source of funds, one of the most reliable sources of the budget and some other resources, and the targeting of liquidity surpluses of government securities. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the novels because we are convinced that such a way ensures and maintains a stable system of financing investments in public health institutions. This is about investments in buildings and equipment, and we express concern about the long-term and expensive construction of some buildings, including the Oncology Institute, the Paediatric Clinic, which has been carrying a number of mandates.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor, on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, co-workers. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since the adoption of the law, a number of positive impacts on implementation and also the completion of investments in public health institutions have been shown. A special account has been established with the Ministry of Health, which collects funds for investment, separately from other budgetary resources. This makes it possible to finance in such a way that funds can actually be spent on investments, irrespective of the end of each financial year. In view of the investments under way, that model should be maintained until 2011. In this period, however, investments such as investments in the Paediatric Clinic, such as equipment for the Neurological Clinic and also the Oncology Institute, are expected to be completed. The aim of this Act is therefore to further, urgently ensure the financing of investments in public health institutions covered by national, development programmes that will start or start or end during the period 2008-2011. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will therefore support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u12	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government, Madam Minister, distinguished guests on the balcony. Since health is our greatest wealth, it is clear that, in the wider social interest, the provision of health policy is one of the priorities of ensuring an adequate and diversified and continuously updated overall health infrastructure, in terms of spatial capacity as well as equipment for the implementation of high-level health activities. This is the third time that the proposed novelty extends the period of validity of the law and thus provides formal legal possibilities for the completion of public health sector investments resulting from the national development programmes adopted, the implementation of which is foreseen by the end of 2011. Otherwise, in the DeSUS Group, we are aware that the state of infrastructure, both from a spatial point of view and equipment, in the field of public health institutions does not reflect the situation that we all really want and which has been or is envisaged in many strategic programmes, and that many investments did not represent exactly the economic use of public finances. We also know that there are still some necessary works and inputs to the existing public health network that cannot be hindered. Members of the DeSUS therefore support a stable system of financing of health infrastructure and stress the need for transparent, economic and strictly dedicated use of resources. The DeSUS Group agrees with the purpose or objectives of the amendment under consideration. We also believe that the solutions follow these objectives, in a way that ensures their achievement, both in terms of facilitating the continuity and stability of financial resources intended for placement in public health infrastructure, as well as in terms of sound management, which means the management of financial assets, which will be carried out in accordance with public finances and public procurement rules and in the spirit of sound management principles and in the interests of fundamental human value - health. We'll support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investments in Public Health Institutions is, in some ways, necessary and we will support it in the Slovenian National Party, because if it does not receive sufficient support, then this money is no longer going into a separate account, but will run into an integral budget, which of course would not be good for the investments that are open. However, on this occasion, we would like to stress the following. It is a national shame - I am glad that today there is also a respected minister - that some problems in the construction of hospitals have been lingering for more than a decade. And there is no excuse for the fact that the health situation is as it is, and we cannot say that we have a development strategy in the area of health. We don't have it. We are acting very resilient, and therefore we can say that this is some inherited germ that is dragging itself like an infectious disease and that this government is no better in this area. Even those hospitals that we have built that are supposed to function the way they should, are in a decaying phase, I can talk about a stem hospital, I can talk about an inseparable hospital, and we already have a problem in these hospitals, a big problem. In fact, people also because the country has little or no support for these facilities, but they are the owner, they are dying. Simply, we have legionella, we have MRSA and so on, these are diseases, the cause of these diseases is insufficient maintenance or the lack of an investment approach to system maintenance. I have convened an extraordinary meeting of the Health Committee, and I hope that we will also discuss these issues on Monday, and because the time frame was such that we were unable to discuss all the laws that are here today, the Health Committee was still here yesterday, and the fact is that we were unable to discuss this during this meeting. However, I would like to say that if the Ministry of Health does not find intervention funds for the maintenance of hospitals, both in the field of investment and ongoing maintenance, these problems will continue to worsen. During this term I have pointed out four or five times the poor state of hospitals in Slovenia, I have focused on the situation, on Sežana and Primorska, Isolo, Šempeter and this is the same as talking to the wall. The former minister took so long to come to Séžana once, but that's all. In short, the honourable Minister, it is not enough to visit hospitals and look at hanging cables, what is not done, it is necessary to take systemic approaches, it is not a systemic approach, we confirm this law for the fourth time, we are just transferring it from time to time, and you have done nothing more than turn the Tolars into euros. As mentioned above, we will support the law because otherwise what is going on in the inertia of normal would be stopped.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the minister with her team! Amendments to this Act are subject to an extension of the deadline from 2008 to 2011. We extend the validity of the law. We've heard of the fact that the story of the new pediatric clinic can finally be completed. To finally complete the investment in Otorinolaringological Clinic and to purchase medical equipment for lysing for Neurological Clinic. It's a marriage that he can't doubt, but I'd like to remind you, the marriage has a total of five articles. Four were amended on the parent’s working body. Such high quality are the laws and proposals we pass through the Ministry of Health. I said that it was a law that clearly did not challenge, and I believe that the National Assembly would unanimously confirm the proposed content of the law. I believe there is no man in this country who does not want the Neurological Clinic to be completed and dedicated to its purpose. These are sick children who have been waiting for this building since 1994, respected colleagues and colleagues, since the establishment of the Committee for a New Paediatric Clinic, which led all lobbying and fund-raising activities in 1994. And it was 2004 and ten years later, and the story was still repeating. In 2008, this story does not yet have an epilogue. The Minister, who promised to complete this story at the end of 2007, January 2008, April 2008, today has no reply or will have children's new premises in 2008. Will they get them at the beginning of 2009, as she said a few days ago. You know, these are problems in our country, and we've been trying to warn you about this for years. That's what we're trying to do. That's what we've been trying to warn you about. Even when the minister under this government was still our fellow Member of the Mags. Andrej Bručan, there have been numerous irregularities at the expense of taxpayers and at the expense of users, a new pediatric clinic, and I will remind you, a quarter of a million euros was just for laying or tax advice on electrical cables. The indictment has been filed, and there is nothing to be said about it in this country. Everything's fine and fine. I am afraid that a criminal charge or procedure will be delayed in the post-election period because one of the main actors is the miracle boy of the largest government party, SDS. The analysis commissioned by the Minister of Health under the perspective also showed certain irregularities. This analysis has shown that the project to build a new paediatric clinic, to the extent that it will be completed, will become or will fall from the original €50 million to €91 million. That's almost 100%. I fear that this number will amount to another million euros when the project is completed. It's a cruel reality that some people smile at, and I say it's a shame. It is a shame for the government, but not only for this government, because these stories have also taken place under past governments since 1994. This story of the Oncology Institute, which is still open and monitored by the media, is still kind of neat and yet very current. Finally, the story of €7 million, which has miraculously disappeared from the budget for the General Hospital of Trbovlje, is also current and open. Nobody's responsible for that. Nor does the Minister of Health have the answer to this question, who and where the financial resources went, EUR 7 million. Not a bit of money, a respected colleague and a colleague. Because we want the children to get a new pediatric clinic because we want some of the projects set up to be completed, we will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Possonec of the National Community has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The adoption of the law will allow for further urgent funding of investments in public health institutions covered by national development programmes that will start or start or end in the period 2008-2011. At least that's the hope with which we send this law to be dealt with. Otherwise, there will be difficulties in financing and implementing these investments. This will also enable more efficient implementation of investments and the economic use of public money. That's hope, too. The extension of the law relates in particular to the continued provision and maintenance of a stable system of financing investments in public health institutions. It's about investments in buildings and equipment. With the hope that this law will no longer repeat the bad practice we have been involved in the construction of the Oncology Institute and the Paediatric Clinic. Also in the hope that this law will help maintain public health institutions throughout the country, I will also support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President, Madam Minister with co-workers. The amendment to the law we are considering is essentially without prejudice to the original content of the basic Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions, which has been in force since 1994. This method of collection, as provided for in this Act, represents a significant and particularly reliable source of funding for new investments in public health infrastructure: reconstruction, adaptation and, of course, the purchase of necessary medical equipment. Such funding is independent of budgetary resources, and it has also been shown in the past that such a way is correct and proved to be good and that such a law has been re-adopted several times and has been extended. As it is known, we now have a number of investments in public health infrastructures and the need for additional medical equipment in Slovenia. It is for this reason that the Ministry of Health considers that it is reasonable and also necessary to continue with this method of raising money, namely for investments already under way and, of course, for those in the phase of completion. The Ministry of Health estimates that all these investments are expected to be completed by 2011. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we rightly estimate that planned investments and purchases of medical equipment can be successfully completed by this date, that is until 2011. This shows in particular the new and effective approach launched by the Ministry of Health in this mandate. However, this has been particularly effective in recent times. The Ministry of Health, together with its co-workers, has managed to prove to the contractors of the construction services that have so far been considered untouchable that they can be forced, through solid negotiations and with appropriate contracts, to stick to the construction contract deadlines and, above all, to eliminate at their costs any potential detected errors on the premises. The last two cases are the Oncology Institute and the Paediatric Clinic. For both cases, the Ministry was able to obtain from the bank guarantee provider, which the Ministry will be able to cash with the bank without delay. Of course, if the contractor does not comply with the contractual arrangements and deadlines. They shall also take full account of all the cases previously cited on behalf of the LDS, Comrade Germič. In fact, by not saying that all the complications that he has mentioned go back to the previous mandates when this department was running the LDS area. Today, however, on the basis of verifiable data, it can be found that the Ministry of Health has successfully solved all these complications from previous mandates. That is why we are convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that if such a way had been implemented in previous mandates, we would not have witnessed the 12-year construction of the Oncology Institute, which entails at least three times the cost of construction that was originally planned. Unfortunately, in the past mandates, public funds have also been misused from this fund because of the misbehavior of the Ministry of Public Affairs, and they have been much less built than they could have been. In view of the way in which the construction supervision has been carried out by the Ministry of Health, in particular Minister Kukoviceva, we estimate in the SDS Group that the period of amendment of this law, which will be in force by the end of 2011, will be long enough to complete all investments already started and also planned in public health infrastructure and also to purchase the necessary medical equipment. In the SDS Group, we will also be happy to support the amendment of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk, on behalf of the SD Group of Members, also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Social Democrats' parliamentary groups will support the amendment of the Law on Investment in Public Health Institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. The law was adopted in 1994 and has already been amended and supplemented twice. The law expires at the end of this year and therefore, according to the applicant, it is necessary to extend its validity for a further three years. All investment projects in the field of health are financed mainly from the specific budget fund of the Ministry of Health, which is made possible by this law. Without extension of the law, the investment cycle would be terminated and some new investments would also be disabled. The funds collected in the special account would automatically flow into the integrated state budget. There are enough reasons to adopt the law, but there are still a number of concerns. First of all, we have objected to the urgent procedure, and if I say so in the chess jargon, we have also given a quick-moving debate at the National Assembly's home committee, where we have only spent 45 minutes of debate on the state's investment in public health institutions. In such a "mystery", as we have seen at the end of the 2004-2008 parliamentary term, we certainly cannot adopt sufficiently thoughtful and better laws. The management of construction investments and the increased purchases and purchases from state budget resources are very problematic in our country. I do not think that investment services across individual ministries, with rare exceptions, are qualified enough to manage investment in a good way and to use budget resources in an efficient manner. Even Dars is often or too often slipped, let’s just look at the complications that have arisen in the Troyan and Styrofoam tunnels, so that I don’t even talk about investments in the Paediatric Clinic and the Oncology Institute. Not to mention buying an operating table on the other side. I think it would be necessary to organise a very well-trained service at the level of the Government, which would lead all the biggest investments in the country, such as large hospitals, National and University Library 2 and so on. In addition, funding would be more transparent and qualified teams could be easier to pair with large domestic and foreign construction companies. The weakness of this law is also that there is no financial and substantive realisation in the explanations by the end of 2007, which would certainly be necessary in view of the end of the financial year. We only learn about future investments or investments that will continue from the Government's accompanying letter to the law. These are listed: completion of the Paediatric Clinic, completion of the ORL Clinic and purchase of medical equipment for Neurological Clinic. According to the applicant, most of the investments covered by the National Development Programme are expected by the end of 2011. At the same time, it is worth noting that we have a set of health investments published only in the development programme plan as an integral part of each national budget. And if we look at the development programmes under the 2009 budget, then we see that funding for the Paediatric Clinic will continue in 2012 and later. In addition, 13 other investments will be co-financed after 2011. Therefore, the question is on the ground why we do not extend the law and bring it into line with the plan for the development programmes of the Republic of Slovenia. However, I must mention in particular that in Slovenia we also have some specialised hospitals that have provided most of the means to make investments and purchase equipment. Mostly from amortization. Let me just mention the Orthopedic Hospital in Valdoltra and the Psychiatric Hospital in Idria. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on investments in public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Madam Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u24	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! With the proposed amendment to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, we approach the most urgent additions and amendments to the law. It was necessary to bring the law into line with Directive 89/105, which regulates the price of medicinal products and their inclusion in the health insurance system by allowing the institution of compulsory health insurance to better manage expenditure on medicinal products from public resources. This means that the insurance company is also supposed to negotiate for medicines and, above all, seek opportunities for savings with the same quality. In the law we have harmonised the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia regulating funerals and funerals. The provisions of the law governing the status of insured persons had to be aligned with those of social protection, parental protection and enforcement rules. Thus, we now have some new categories of insured persons defined in Article 15 of the Act, namely: detainees, prison inmates, minors on leave of education, family assistants, some persons who receive rights under the law governing parental protection, children up to the age of 18 who are not insured as family members. We have amended the provisions of the law governing the status of family members, so that all children are now equal in the exercise of rights, whether they live with their parents in the same household or not. We have equalized the position of foster parents and caregivers with the position of parents in the exercise of the right to care for their children. For socially disadvantaged persons, the most important new regulation laid down in the law is that the state budget will cover their payment up to the full value of the services and thus exempt them from payments of voluntary health insurance premiums, which will cost the country around €21 million per year. The Law also specifies more precisely the foreign persons who are temporarily located in the territory of our country and for whom payment of emergency health care is provided from the State budget. In the work relating to the integration of medicinal products into the public funding system, the law is coordinated with the European Directive by clearly and transparently laying down the procedure and criteria for the integration of medicinal products into the compulsory health insurance system. In doing so, all the rights of insured persons have been preserved in the provision of funds for medicinal products of compulsory health insurance through the amendment of the law. To this end, the right to food for special medical purposes is added. The new law now complements the law in force, defining the positive and intermediate list to which medicinal products and foodstuffs are classified for special medical purposes, on the basis of the criteria laid down by this law. Among other things, the classification of medicinal products into lists is highlighted in addition to the public health, ethical and therapeutic importance of the medicinal product. The amendment of the law allows the institution of compulsory health insurance to play a more active role in accordance with the adopted amendment to the drug law two months ago. The Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance will also have supervision by the Ministry of Health in the future. The new law also identifies a health insurance card that will be able to form an integral part of the ID card in the future and save substantial funds, around €6 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health as a parent of the labour force. I ask Mr Ljub Germić, President, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again, hello to the Minister with her co-workers. Colleagues and colleagues! The Health Committee shall meet at its 19th emergency meeting, on 8. Seven. 2008 The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia following an emergency procedure. At its regular meeting, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care, Health Insurance, should be considered on an urgent basis. Members and members of the committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the letter from the Association of Friends of the Slovenian Youth and the observations of the Institute of Economic Research in Health as material for consideration at the meeting in addition to the draft law. Mr Darko Žiberna, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, presented the introductory explanation to the draft law on behalf of the applicant. In its introductory presentation, the rapporteur stressed that the draft law also addressed the Economic and Social Council and agreed with the proposed solutions. The new law thus brings important innovations, namely compliance with the EU acquis, compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision and compliance with the legal order within the Republic of Slovenia. The law regulates the economic rights of the socially weak, who will be entitled to cover the difference to the full value of health services from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law also specifies the foreign persons temporarily located in the territory of the State for whom payment of emergency health care is provided from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The law introduces certain new categories of insured persons, such as detainees, prison inmates, minors on leave of education, persons who acquire rights under the law governing parental protection, family assistants and children under 18 years of age who are not insured as family members. The law also provides more appropriate grounds for implementing the system of interchangeable medicinal products and for determining the highest recognised value of medicinal products. The law also introduces the supervision of the Ministry of Health over the work of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, as is already the case with public health institutions. The Legislative and Legal Service made comments to Article 1, Article 3, Article 4, Article 6, Article 13, Article 14, Article 16, Article 33, Article 25, Article 45 of the Law. The amendment was tabled by the LDS Chamber of Ambassadors to Article 14 and the Parliamentary Coalition, namely SDS, NSI, DeSUS and SLS to Article 1, Article 3, Article 4, Article 14, Article 16, Article 25, Article 45 and Article 46 of the Law. The amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups followed most of the comments of the Legal and Legislative Service. He has drafted and adopted amendments to Articles 3, 13 and 48, and has also adopted an amendment to Article 25. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee set out the text of the amended draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Following the presentation, you're standing by the parliamentary groups. Ms Majda Zupan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! The changes and additions of the 16 - year - old marriage were long in preparation, and when we met them, we were convinced that they meant significant improvements. Let me mention some. First of all, compliance with the acquis of the European Union, which regulates the design and pricing of medicinal products and the classification of medicinal products in lists. Next. Consistency with decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning funerals and post-mortems and contributions to insured persons. Expansion of certain rights for blind, visually impaired, deaf and deaf persons, equalization of children and regulation of the situation of foster parents and caregivers. Extension of the supervisory powers of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance regarding the provision of medicines and medical devices. Next. Implementation of the supervision of the Ministry of Health over the work of the Health Insurance Institute. Then on the newly defined health insurance card. For a large number of citizens and citizens, the regulation of the situation of socially disadvantaged persons by covering the payment of health services from the budget means the exemption of the payment of the premium for additional health insurance. These are important improvements and in the New Slovenia Group we support the amendment of the law, as it brings important innovations, as said above all, and follows the principle of social justice and solidarity. We are pleased that it also brings solutions to the implementation of the cost cover for some 100,000 insured persons who are socially disadvantaged. An important addition also means on the committee to adopt an amendment on a proposal from the Association of Friends of the Youth of Slovenia, following the intervention of the representative of SD, which is our compensation for the payment for the accommodation of one of the parents at the hospital with the sick child up to and including the fifth year. All these proposed innovations show that the Ministry of Health is aware of the problems that arise in practice and try to solve them within the scope of its ability, including the financial ones available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Prevc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with co-workers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will be pleased to support the proposed amendments to the Health Care Act, as we are convinced that the country must respond with various measures, including by covering the payments of health services, and thereby alleviate the worst social pressures. In addition, it is necessary to include new categories of insurers and to remedy certain shortcomings which have been demonstrated in relation to the implementation of this Act. In our view, adequate health insurance for all citizens and other residents in the country is one of the basic items and fundamental principles of the social state. This is especially true for children whose parents do not care about parents or are without adequate family care, so they must enjoy special protection from the State. We therefore also support the amendment of the parental committee, which was adopted on the proposal of the Alliance of Youth Friends to include in the law a payment for the co-existence of one of the parents in the healthcare institution with the sick child, up to and including 5 years of age of the child. In the Slovenian People's Party Group we also support the equalization of children, regardless of whether they live with parents in the same household, and the regulation of the situation of foster parents and caregivers. Although it is necessary to overhaul the 16-year-old law comprehensively, the changes that are ahead of us are particularly urgent, so we also support the urgent procedure. We are certainly pleased that the proposal extends rights to blind and visually impaired and deaf and deaf people who have been alerting themselves to their problems for many years. In the Slovenian People's Party Group we also support the provision in Article 6 concerning agricultural holdings. It is recalled, however, that it is necessary to correctly interpret or properly determine that income, which is considered to be income from agriculture and complementary activities, does not fall within the scope of the measures of the common agricultural policy. These funds are too variable, both after content, administrative procedures and as regards payment deadlines, in order not to be included in agricultural income. The opposite provision will not achieve its purpose. After all, these measures of the common agricultural policy are included in the calculation of the cadastral income of each farm. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the process of identifying the records threatened by specific accounts is too complicated and will once again constitute a huge number of administrations and unnecessary routes for insurers. We propose, however, that a more simple and systematic approach should be taken, as the records of those at risk or those with the greatest social distress and for the new categories of insured persons must already be kept by the State. However, it is finally necessary to comply with the Directive of the European Community, which regulates the design and pricing of medicinal products and the field of classification of medicinal products in lists, and to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning funeral and post-mortem and insurance contributions in the stages of basic health insurance. In view of the rational use of resources and the transparency of the business, it is right to extend the powers of supervision of the Health Insurance Office over the implementation of the agreement on the provision of medicines and medical devices and to introduce the supervision of the Ministry of Health over the work of the Institute of Health Insurance. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will also support the amendments of the four groups of Members and of the Committee, in particular those which better and transparently define compliance with the Directive concerning the classification of medicinal products and foodstuffs for special health purposes on a positive and intermediate list. An option is added for the disposal procedure of the medicinal product or food product from the list where it no longer meets the criteria and a more precise procedure for issuing the decision is laid down. Finally, I would like to point out that it seems particularly positive to us to approach preventive measures, clearly defined grounds for ensuring the rights and programmes of prevention, screening programmes and thus early detection of risk factors, with the hope that we will in time prevent a number of serious or chronic diseases and thereby save this many from long-term treatment, and thus the health treasury the necessary savings for expensive and long-term treatments that are all too massive and frequent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! Most of the amendments and additions to the law which have been considered under the urgency procedure, which the applicant excuses for the possible difficult remedial effects that the State and citizens might have suffered due to their non-admission, could have been dealt with and accepted long ago by the last meeting of the National Assembly in this composition. Of course, I am referring to the amendments and additions to the requirements of the Constitutional Court issued in 2005 regarding the state of non-constitutionality of the three articles of this Act and the obligation to respect the European acquis. The latter relates to the implementation of the Council of the European Community directive on the pricing of medicinal products for humanitarian use, which brings more transparency, measures regulating the pricing of medicinal products and medical devices into our current legal order. With the proposed regulation, we believe that we can expect more efficient management of the expenditure on these products intended for patients and persons with disabilities, as the procedures governing price formation and their integration into the healthcare system are not sufficiently clear, transparent and even inconsistent with that Directive. We know that the implementation of this same directive recently included the novels of the Medicinal Products Act. Under the regulation of the prices of medicinal products at national level, the amendment of the law may include a system of setting maximum permitted prices, which in our view may positively reflect the continued sustainability of the financial state of the healthcare system. The maximum price model should be provided in addition to rational healthcare consumption, which will also be achieved by means of the proposed negotiation option, lower prices than the highest permitted prices with the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance or other natural and legal persons who carry out public health activities and providers of medicinal products, including the good supply of our market with medicines and the wide availability of medicines to all users. Given that we have a fairly wide range of rights in the field of medicines and devices, it is good and only right to maintain the current level, and for this we need to have a well-thought-out and in terms of managing expenditure, an effective mechanism. In our parliamentary group, we have assessed that, with regard to the deprivation of individual funeral and post-mortem benefits, which were different from before and after seven months of arrangements, compared to the other beneficiaries of those benefits in a worse situation, the novel properly solves the injustice at that time. In the DeSUS Group, we are fully committed to the amendment of the law, which means that we also agree with the introduction or detailed regulation of the health rights of certain categories of insured persons who have already been granted certain rights in respect of the exercise of rights under this law under other legal titles. As for another positive social note proposed by the government at the end of the mandate, when 20 Slovenian people from different categories of socially disadvantaged introduce coverage of payments up to the full value of health services, we are pleased that proposals from public debates and cross-cutting coordination have been taken into account. Thus, this social correction of the consequences, we hope, will also preserve the principle of social justice in this area through the proposed public funding, and is still welcome for that circle of citizens and citizens who have felt the burden of inflation on their few 100 euros of income on a much worse scale than we can imagine. As has been said, DeSUS supports the new proposed regulation of healthcare and the health insurance system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act is not the subject matter and product of this government, but is a necessity which is pointed out by both the Constitutional Court and the Directive. We support the law in the Slovenian National Party because it will also significantly mitigate the social injustices that arise when the country uncontrolledly also increases the basket of living costs and reduces the level and level of life in the Republic of Slovenia. The reasons for amending and supplementing the law are therefore clearly set out in these two decisions of the Constitutional Court. During the last period, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia adopted two decisions, Decision 390/2 repealing the Decision on flat-rate contributions to compulsory health insurance and Constitutional Decision 69/3 on non-compliance with the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. Both were published in the official papers and the Constitutional Court also found that there was a conflict or unconstitutionality. It is also imperative to implement a directive, which, I don't know, the government does what they do regularly, but it is quite a few years old, it has a beard, on 21 December 1988 it has been written down. That is why we have received a reminder, as far as I know. This Directive states that prices must be aligned with the level of the social situation. The current regime does not provide conditions for the classification of medicinal products on lists and does not control the price of medicinal products. This may be flawed and bad, but it can also be arranged in other ways. The premiums for payments in voluntary health insurance shall be paid in lump sums throughout the year. However, we have layers of people who, because of their social status, as has already been said, are not able to pay this, so this will now take over the budget, which is good. The purpose of the law is to remedy the unconstitutional situation and also to ensure the rights of children governed by the Constitution, which is also regarded as positive, lacking parents or without adequate family care or living with their foster parents. We know that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides these children with the highest level of health care and care, and this is also now specifically stated in this law. The law also introduces certain new categories of insured persons, such as detainees, prison sentences, minors on leave of education and so on. This is also positive, for so far it has not been arranged as it should have been, or the country has paid only what was most necessary. The law also introduces control, which no one has ever talked about, and is in charge of supervision, and I hope that he will also perform this supervisory function. The conditions that the law will impose on the budget burden are 21.5 million and will impose a budget of 8 million euros for this year. As has already been said, we support the law in the Slovenian National Party mainly because it reduces social differences and also allows those who have not now had the right to quality health care, so that they will certainly have it by adopting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u36	Thank you very much again for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I had heard earlier about the good will of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which will accept another social correction for the socially disadvantaged just before the elections. Interestingly, when we dealt with the 2008 budget rebalancing a few months ago, the same Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the budget line of the Ministry of Health took four million euros in funding. These were the financial resources reserved for the payment of supplementary health insurance for socially disadvantaged persons. It is true, however, that in the meantime there was also a referendum on the provinces, which cost about as much as the ministry or government had taken for us to carry out a referendum that is, in fact, invalid or has nothing to do with it. Another story I have to mention, dear colleagues and colleagues, because I want to say how the National Assembly has become only a service to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this mandate. This is an important broad law that should not be adopted by emergency procedure. Such a marriage requires more time. Last week, this marriage came to the National Assembly. 115. Article 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly speaks and I will quote that there must also be an indication in the law that funds for the implementation of the law are provided in the State budget. And Mr Žiberna, State Secretary at the Ministry, publicly states that the financial resources are not in the budget, but that this law just indicates the need for financial resources to be provided in the budget. Hand to heart, such a law should not be adopted in a parliamentary procedure. If the opposition had tabled, a Member, such a law, Mr Tsukati, President of the National Assembly, would have said no. However, since the Government, its party, has put pressure on it, today we are considering a law under an urgent procedure that does not have the financial resources provided in the budget. But I will also say by myself, yes, thank God that after almost four years of promise, the Ministry has come with this law to help the socially disadvantaged. According to statistics, these people are, but the data are from 2005, and I believe absolute poverty is greater today. According to statistics, 12% of people were poor in Slovenia in 2005. If you will, however, I believe that you have looked into the law for reasons, this law will only come to the aid of five percent, only five percent of the poor in our country. The law is as selective as possible, respected colleagues and colleagues. There is also a condition that people who could potentially be entitled to supplementary health insurance payments by the State are those who receive financial social assistance. Do you know how low the price for financial social assistance is? Do you know that financial social assistance also does not provide social security? Do you know that this marriage will not help people today, next month, or in September? No, this law is written down to apply only with effect from 1 January 2009. This is a poor pre-election move, a respected colleague and colleague who is very selective. I say we should be in charge of supplementary health insurance. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] eligible disabled workers will not, however, because they receive compensation from disability insurance, I will say 260, 270 or 300 euros, even though they are sick and have a high cost for their health and that they cannot afford it by a large majority. [[...]] No matter what, in the Lipa Group [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We welcome the decision because the Ministry has taken into account and has given the opportunity to benefit parents who do not live with a child at the same address. [[...]] Last but not least, they also include fostering relationships.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Bručan, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u38	Nice greeting, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary with the team! In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, the proposed amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act changes, updates and complements the legislation on healthcare and health insurance. In the parliamentary group, we support amendments and additions to that area, which somehow create better equal opportunities for health, more equal access to public health services for all social sectors. This has led to numerous facts, including the issue of two decisions by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the transposition of the EU Council Directive, the provision of allowances for socially disadvantaged categories of citizens of Slovenia, compliance with the social protection law, compliance with the law on parental protection and family benefits. From the point of view of access to compulsory health insurance rights, the burden of payments to the full value of health services is to a greater extent than other low-income persons. It is therefore necessary to amend that law, which, by means of a social correction of the system, provides that insured persons who do not meet the criteria of property censorship are to be paid up to the full value of health services at an appropriate level of contribution to the State budget. The new law thus pursues the objective of social justice for the most socially disadvantaged insured insured persons with regard to payments to health services with exemptions. The inclusion of certain new insurance status further strengthens the principle of solidarity, meaning that as many or all citizens as possible are involved in compulsory health insurance. The Law also corrects the unconstitutional situation in the area of funerals and post-mortems and flat-rate contributions. Two novels of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which were adopted at the end of 2001 and in 2002 during the previous LDS and SD government, led to this unconstitutional situation. With the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act, which entered into force 11. Seven. 2002 provisions on the post-mortem and funeral home were put in place before the amendment and supplementation of the same law adopted in 2001. However, a new law in 2002 did not establish a legal framework for the period between the two novels in order to address these consequences, resulting in unequal treatment and consequently an unconstitutional situation. The Law establishes an appropriate legal basis for financing current prevention programmes such as ZORA, DORA and SVIT, which have already been approved by the Health Council. It is stated that the health situation of all individuals and the prevention of cancer is urgently needed and the continuation of the planned strategy in this area at the beginning of this mandate. The new law extends the rights of previously ill groups or insured persons to blind and visually impaired and to insured persons with complete or very severe hearing impairment, as well as protected persons with cystic fibrosis and autism, and to persons after accidental brain damage and damage. In these cases, conditions or diseases are covered by compulsory insurance and comprehensive treatment of treatment and health rehabilitation of 100%. It should also be pointed out that by solving the novelty, it will be necessary to provide full health care or food for special medical purposes with a adapted food composition for the treatment of insured persons with born metabolic disorders. This allows phenylketonoric patients to obtain food classified on a positive list on the basis of a prescription without specific procedures. In particular, it is necessary to mention here, when presenting the opinion of the SDS Group, the possibility that one of the parents of a child under the age of 5 has paid stay in case of illness of a child from compulsory health insurance. In the SDS Group, we are aware that health is the fundamental human right and also the responsibility of each individual, and on the basis of this, we will support the Amendment and Supplement to the Health and Health Insurance Act establishing [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate]] equality of access to health as a fundamental human right. [[..]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Elections are certainly a welcome matter, if not because of the verification of the promises made and the inventory made, and certainly because of the real threat that they will be replaced ineffectively. And it is likely that the timing of the rulings is certainly a fundamental reason for rushing and proposing laws by emergency procedure. Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure lays down the conditions for the urgency procedure. Where the adoption of legislation is necessary due to the interests of the security or defence of the State, or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, or to prevent difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State, the Government may propose the adoption of legislation by emergency procedure. This is a procedure that only the Government is capable of taking advantage of. In this case, too, it will be difficult to substantiate the urgency procedure unless the Government's delay is classified as a natural disaster. Among the reasons for amendments and additions, the applicant stated that the 16-year-old Health and Health Insurance Act required appropriate amendments. Some of these changes, more or less appropriate, have already taken place. It is likely that this same argument could also be cited on the 15th or 14th anniversary. However, for us Social Democrats, the change is acceptable from the conclusion made by the applicant and speaks of the fact that from the point of view of access to compulsory health insurance rights, the burden has been added to the full value of health services to a greater extent than other people with the lowest income. This requires a change that will allow and ensure criteria or full coverage of health services, without paying the most vulnerable to the social correction of the system. The law provides that insured persons who do not meet the criteria of income or property censorship shall be paid up to the full value of health services at the appropriate level of the corresponding contribution rate of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And before I move on to a well-adopted decision on the working body regarding the letter from the Association of Friends of the Youth of Slovenia, I would like to respond mainly to the fact that this move on the committee was found to be populism. Of course, all the moves that the government makes in this year’s National Assembly could be described as populism. Even when we're talking about socially disadvantaged people. Let me remind you that on 21 July 2005, the Social Democrats tabled the amendments and additions to this same law of amendment, which would have reached into this matter at that time and enabled the 170 000 already to do what this law would have enabled them to do. And that's interesting in this marriage. This is so, for this government does so as to give a gift to someone and ask him or him to open it only when we leave. I think that's how it's gonna be in this case. And that's kind of populism. But because it works for the good of people, he certainly, at least in substance, can't argue. But that's a good point to make. It is therefore also important that the change taken by our fellow Member Samo Bevk on the working body concerns a letter from the Association of Friends of the Youth of Slovenia. It is clear from the Committee's amendment that in Slovenia hospitals allow parents to interact with a sick child according to their objective options, which is also supported by the Law on Patient Rights, but it is also important to cover or pay the cost of staying. In most cases, parents have to bear these costs on their own, as compulsory health insurance does not allow such costs to be covered or later reimbursed. This area will be adequately regulated by supplementing the draft law. This will cover the cost of living with one of the parents in a health care facility with a sick child up to the age of 5 years. This is the achievement of the parent's working body. And this is a greetingal gesture that you've been able to accept on your mother's working body. The proposal for amendments and additions, which is not opposed by the Economic and Social Council, which is a very important information for the Social Democrats because it speaks of social partnership, and despite the legitimate concerns we have, let me say at this point that we will support the amendments that have been tabled to this proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law and have been tabled by the LDS Group, this bill, despite the great populism, cannot be opposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič, you have the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello again. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are disappointed that only before the end of the term of office did the Government introduce a law governing health care and health insurance, on the extent of the rights and obligations of insured persons and social care providers for health and their tasks, following an urgent procedure that does not allow for an in-depth and broader debate. The original government intention of making changes in health care and amending the existing law has thus failed. Let us recall only the core of the conflicts in the past, hospital benefits, the political appointment of members to the Assembly of the Health Insurance Institute, the reduction of the hospital's compensation for adrenaline sports, poor and long-term negotiations, the arrogance of the social partners and could still be listed. Instead of a consistent proposal for a law to be dealt with on a regular basis, we are placed in a time-consuming situation where we will quickly adopt today's novelty without the necessary time to reflect on certain solutions and without adequate analyses and assessments. The law introduces certain improvements and contains certain provisions that will improve the self-registration of the law, incorporates new insurers into the compulsory health insurance framework, corrects the unconstitutional situation due to decisions of the Constitutional Court and introduces provisions governing the pricing of medicinal products under European Union directives. As an important novelty, it also provides coverage of the differences in payments up to the full value of health services for the most socially vulnerable insured insured. It is the current payments covered by supplementary health insurance. In the LDS, we support assistance to the socially weak, the application of the principles of solidarity and equal accessibility, and we will therefore support the law. However, we regret that this measure will only be introduced by the Government at the beginning of 2009, even though it was announced at the beginning of its mandate. Therefore, the question arises in itself whether the Government has not been consciously waiting for a pre-election time for a solution, which means aid for the 100,000 socially weak. In view of the other actions of the Government we can attach to this, which is unacceptable for us in the LDS. Socially weak issues should be addressed systematically and more effectively. By amending the law to the budget, the government is transferring the risk of additional health insurance damage to the budget, but we are wondering whether the way in which this measure is implemented is well thought out or why it does not conclude quite voluntary insurance for payments for this group of insurers. The assessment of the financial implications referred to in that provision suggests that the budget will be estimated at around EUR 21.5 million per year. In our view, this is an underestimated assessment. Since these are lower-income insurers, it can be concluded that their costs are higher than the average, and therefore the cost of covering the damages for these insurers is also higher than EUR 26 million, as far as the potential coverage of voluntary health insurance premiums would be. This also raises the question of whether, by adopting such a measure, the cost of damage to health insurance providers will fall substantially, assuming that the premiums for other insurers are unchanged, resulting in overpayment of supplementary health insurance services. Can we conclude that the other insurers will be reduced in premiums? Due to the model offered, we are seriously warned by the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance about the enormous increase in labour and higher administrative costs, which means the additional burden of public cash at the expense of compulsory health insurance rights. That is not all the case also shows a great deal of ease in the adoption of the amendment on the home working body, which postponed the exercise of that right to the beginning of 2009, instead of 30 days after the publication of the law in the Official Journal. There are no adequate answers to these questions due to extremely short deadlines for the adoption of the law. But they don't explain themselves to the law. The second thing we would like to stress and have already advocated in the drug law is the assessment of the public financial and economic effects of the classification of the medicinal product as a mandatory component of the application submitted by the applicant to the institution. Such a method of assessing the classification of medicinal products is in force throughout Europe and represents a standard of classification. Such assessments reduce the possibility of manipulation in the classification of medicinal products and increase transparency, which is in line with the spirit of the Transparency Directive. These evaluations allow consistent and effective planning of public treasury expenditure, and the positive impact of these assessments on the patient's greater accessibility to new therapies has also been demonstrated. Because of all the positive effects mentioned above, we have also proposed these appropriate amendments, which we are confident will further improve the law. It is certainly also an improvement of the law to the adoption of an amendment on a committee which has defined the right to benefit sick children. The adoption of the amendment allows for the accommodation of one of the parents in a health care facility with a sick child up to the age of children up to the age of five. As we have already said, despite these shortcomings, we will support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. We are moving on to the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 3. Please, Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Although the amendment to this article is cited primarily as editorial, where it summarises the new text, it amends the healthcare plan into a resolution on the national healthcare programme, which has recently been adopted. However, I think it is reasonable and necessary to point out that this law, wherever it is replaced, is also actually intended to sum up all these solutions, which this resolution on the national healthcare programme provides for. And that's what we're doing with these changes to the law. This is mainly to try to ensure accessibility and free healthcare for all, regardless of their social situation. And that is also the essence or the greatest positive change in this law, and it seems to me that it should also be stressed. We will, of course, also support this amendment, as stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Since there are no more debaters on the amendment to this Article, I conclude the debate. Before I give the floor to further debaters, I would like to ask you to discuss precisely the content of the individual amendment in order not to go over to the general debate on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Care Act. Amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 13. Mr. Just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Article 13 refers to what services are provided by compulsory insurance to insured persons, or at point 1 or in the following points of this Article, in part up to half of the costs. We have already discussed the amendment that I have adopted on the proposal of the Forum for Children's Rights in Hospitals on the Health Committee. Thus, the parent committee decided to include the total value for the co-existence of one of the parents in a hospital with a sick child up to the age of 5 years in Article 13(1) and to cover 100% of the costs of the health allowance. Of course, at the beginning of the discussion, the coalition informed us that it was a pre-eminently populist amendment. However, when we discussed the content of this amendment, which was then adopted by the Committee in modified form, the mood tended to favour this amendment. The coalition also began to think differently, especially after the intervention of doctors who are members of this parental committee, Dr. Klavor and Dr. Bručan and representative, or President of the Forum for the Rights of Children in the Hospital.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u47	Excuse me, Mr. Bevk, I just wanted to remind you of something. We agreed earlier that we would discuss the content of the amendment. The amendment states that a new 18th indent will be added to the new 17th indent. So please, if you have something to say.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u48	Yes, Mr. Vice President, I will. I also wanted to remind the other Members and Members who were not at the meeting of the parental committee, what an interesting discussion was taking place on the parental committee, which is in fact one of the important innovations from the parental committee meeting until this plenary session. I would like to say that I am pleased that this amendment was also adopted on the parental committee I have proposed. However, as you have warned me, I will now move on to this amendment, which has been tabled by the Coalition or the Coalition Group of Members, and I will also support the inclusion of transitional and similar health checks for athletes taking part in the official competitions of national industry sports undertakings in Article 1, paragraph 13, so that all these insured persons will be guaranteed the payment of this health service in full, is said to be 100%. This somehow guarantees already the Sports Act. And I think it's right for this solution to be incorporated into this law. However, I apologize, Mr Vice President, for my leap into a not-so-distant history. I hope you'll be so strict with other colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Although, Mr Bevk, there were eight of us who were present yesterday at the Health Committee meeting, so most of us are from this committee. Anyone else want a word on the content of this amendment? He's talking about athletes. Here you go, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, it is possible that Mr Bevk's comment has been made, given that today the SDS has so praised the text of the law. But I agree with you. I would like to give very clear support to this amendment. I think that the drafter, i.e. the four members of the coalition, has made a very important move with the amendment's proposal. The Sports Act has already laid down in almost 10 years in force that this will be possible for these health checks to be made possible for athletes. You are grateful that you have tabled this amendment and I am sure that it is for athletes, so it is mainly for top athletes competing on behalf of national alliances that this regular health check is possible so that no tragedy will occur. We have witnessed to them many times that athletes suddenly experienced heart attacks or other tragic health consequences, which have also resulted in loss of life. That is why this amendment seems very important to me and I am expressing my support for it as a preventive measure in their active sports activities, which requires very high physical and other efforts at the same time. So congratulations to the proposer that you have written this down and I think it is a very important amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Brucian, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. I am particularly pleased with this amendment because we signed a letter with the Olympic Committee in early 2007 or in the first half of 2007 about the intention to carry out this act or this payment. I must say that the previous government, the LDS Government and the SD have not been able to prepare anything similar to the implementation of the law in terms of paying for the previous and similar health reviews of athletes, as we did during the term of this government and this coalition. This is an extremely important event, an extremely important act, an extremely important part of the law that will allow these regular reviews, preliminary and similar regular reviews in athletes, allowing for the identification of certain diseases that can be identified and prevented by such checks, disasters and, of course, tragic events in individual competitions. It is clear that the law itself cannot guarantee that such events will no longer exist, but it can be substantially reduced and identified by medical science today. In doing so, I would like to say that the treatment of top athletes must also be given great attention in the future. This, however, does not fall within the framework of compulsory health insurance, falls within the framework of additional, complementary, additional health insurance, which is urgently needed for treatment, but not for prevention, but for the treatment of injured and ill athletes, for which there is also a basis in the signing of the Treaty with the Olympic Committee last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u54	Dear Mr President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I am already in the process of apologizing if I happen to come by because I am very afraid of the decapitation, because the chairman is very severe today, but still. I welcome this amendment because, unlike others, I do not think sport is health. There are many athletes who expose themselves more to health than those who are not athletes. This also shows very serious injuries, disability, which occur in very young years, especially for top athletes. Even sudden deaths are not rare, which could in some way be prevented if prior medical examinations were carried out for all these athletes who are engaged in top sports, and this is more accurate, regular, where you would see very quickly whether there are any anomalies. That's exactly why I welcome this. These lives are very precious, and I think we've neglected that. Whether this is the fault of the previous government or this government, this could be discussed. Just as it can be debated, whether something prevents this opposition or is the previous opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Earlier, a colleague, Dr. Bručan, said that they had listened to the Olympic Committee and had drafted this amendment and a proposal that benefited athletes and the health of athletes. At the same time, he did not forget to mention that the previous LDS and SD governments were unable to do so. Of course, with such comments and indications, what the previous governments have not done, of course, we will not go far. I could tell you what you didn't do on Tuesday on the parental committee. If the child amendment were fully adopted, then older children over 5 years of age would also be entitled to reimbursement after the recommendation of the doctor, and you deleted this broader amendment. So, what the previous governments haven't done, we can return what you haven't done in this government, and we could, say, do. I don't think that was a point, Mr Bručan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. He's a freshman, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u58	I have a replica. I just said something that's true. You've inspired me in this term with a lot of things that wasn't true.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u59	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica. I would just say, please, we stick to the contents of this amendment, as Mr Aleš Gulič says, otherwise I will be severe. Here you go, Mr. Aloys Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister with Colleagues! All together in this marriage, the force could be short. You could say the law is good, the debate is over, let's vote - and that's all. That would be the easiest thing to do. The groups of Members simply report certain times because they want to say some more of their views, and it is very difficult what you expect, the chairman, to speak exactly about the sentence that is written. That's hard. This has been going on for four years in this House somehow from time to time, but it just can't, because then it would be like I said before, they would say, that's good. And now I should finish, say, this is a very good amendment, otherwise the state imposes some new financial obligation, at this point we don't know what, we don't know how much it costs, but the amendment is good, because it extends some right. But this whole law is good because it extends certain rights. And here is the debate now, or a little earlier or a little later, the urgent procedure is appropriate or not, but these are all some such debates that can, but do not contribute in this direction, which is what it wants to resolve with this law. The financial consequences of this law are, if I am properly informed because I am not a member of this committee, more than EUR 20 million. That's a lot of money. Thus, the state has decided to grant to extend these rights so much and so much money. This can be done for this reason because the economic financial situation is so good. It's hard to afford a country that doesn't have that kind of money. We can make other laws, but if you can't cover them financially, then there's a dead letter on the paper. As far as this amendment is concerned, I see it as good in some way, but I do not know if it will contribute in this direction to the possibility that, with these preliminary examinations of athletes, they might be able to control something else in this respect. Some here today have already warned of something that is happening. To try to achieve certain results in today's top sport in an insufficient way. But I don't think they'd be doing this kind of examination. Unless we were to prescribe that they should, because at such examinations, if they were to go this way, these matters would probably also be identified. Finally, many of these top athletes end up as disabled people after their careers because they are overacting and because their body simply cannot and is accompanied by them through only the injury activity. This ultimately means so much and so much from the State Treasury to pay for such health services. And if we do something with these checks to take some long-term preventive action, this amendment is very good and is worth supporting as such. However, if this is not important because it is also important to note that in sport today big money is turning, and when I hear about cheap prices, these local clubs are either borrowing or buying certain athletes, then there is only one preventive inspection of the drop into the sea against those prices that are formed in the market in the sport activities themselves. This is a contribution to this and if it will mean what I have already pointed out, that it is also being monitored through this health condition, in order to monitor the possible taking of illicit substances, which is very common today in top sports, but should not be, then one such amendment will have two effects. I will gladly support this amendment and our Group of Members as a co-signatory of the investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. It's a trifle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u62	Thank you very much. For starters, I can also say that I support this amendment, especially because it applies mainly to those registered athletes who are young. Those registered athletes who are established in the modern world and also make a lot of money, then we ask ourselves whether it is really necessary to provide money from the common treasury to those who could otherwise afford it. Previously, the question was the extension of rights. Any extension of rights shall also have an obligor on the other hand. As with the company - it is an asset and is passive. If you give someone something, you have to take something. It's like that everywhere. Of course, it's an extension of 20 million. Or in these things, which have increased, maybe there is something that a beneficiary could pay at least 50%. Not everyone who is poor is listed here in this table. But among health care providers, some are very poor. It's not always a solution when you're spreading the rights that it's always good. This can then be a wasteful country or something else, so that man himself does not then worry about himself on the principle of rationality, but puts all obligations on the ground. And then we look at the country and see what it does. What's the state? What is the budget of the Republic of Slovenia? That's the taxpayer's money. Tax money. Systematic checks, yes. And this amendment is primarily good because there are a lot of young people in sports. And at a time when they're still growing, they have to be thrown away by these checks. Then, of course, these athletes become gladiators. And for gladiators, obviously, that's what this National Assembly came up with, even something to pay for, but not. But there are also gladiators who are not registered in these professional relationships that the Olympic Committee and my colleague are talking about. There are also some gladiators who are also working - top or even higher, and of course they are not included in it. Sometimes we also call them specials who care about the promotion of Slovenia. But you're not registered and you're not getting this. However, the article is positively oriented, or amendment, and is to be covered. It's at risk. What he's doing, what's now going on in top sports, is nothing to do with health. I've been doing my own work. I'm no longer active. I'm just so loving, for the sake of health. This is quite something else Top Sports has nothing to do with health. This is business, this is something else, and in this context it is also necessary to speak, except for young people when they are preparing, but this is something we have to take care of. Just like the question was whether to cover the cost of damage to people exposed to special risks, I don't know, walking on dangerous trails in hills, jumping with parachutes. Is it the company's duty to guarantee these risks? We need to take care of this and influence that there are no injuries. But in any case, every risk, every reckless act, every risk, and the challenge of life to the citizens, we have to ask ourselves if this is the right direction. Something like that in your mind. Thank you very much, Mr President, for not stopping me because I did not fully adhere to the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u64	I would like to make one point, Mr Vice-President, because, earlier, it was said by a fellow Member of Parliament, that we had inspired him to do so. This means that I should have given Mr Bručan something too, but I must say that I did not induce anything to my colleague Bručan even when he was a minister. Otherwise, it's not in my nature to act like it. But I asked him two oral questions about the bird flu virus and the hospital. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk, I think you've made up enough. We're moving on. Not on that subject, Mr. Mag. He's a freshman. I believe you've made up. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Chairman. I think that yesterday's debate on the Law on Mental Health has also affected that we are more tolerant of each other today, which is very good. In this amendment, let me mention that intersectoral cooperation is also being demonstrated, i.e. health in all policies. Comments are also highly fitting that whenever you give to someone, it is necessary to take or produce extras on the other side. We must always remember that in the economy all these rights have to be produced in such a way. This may need to be stressed more than once because it is too often self-evident for this to come from somewhere. However, that the possibility of similar examinations is extremely important for athletes, we also welcome this kind of content through this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I note that no one wants to discuss the amendment to Article 13, so I conclude the debate. I am putting five amendments to the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia to Article 14. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The drafter himself states in the text "reasons for the adoption of the law" that the law establishes new legal conditions where more efficient management of expenditure on medicines and medical devices is expected, and he himself repeats the very clear fact that when we talk about medicines and medical devices, it is the fastest growing items in the financial plan of the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. So we're talking about 17, 18% of the total expenditure of the Health Insurance Institute, which is dedicated to this area. It is therefore very important to manage the financial sustainability of the healthcare system and to guarantee healthcare rights if we also manage the growth of these costs. It is therefore extremely important to amend and adapt legislation, rules that respond directly to challenges very quickly. At this point, the debate on the effectiveness of these measures is always appropriate. It's always fitting, given that we're talking about a very important area. And on the one hand, as we monitor the development of technologies in the field of health, the development of new substances, new medicines, we can also see how costs are growing rapidly, and that cost increases are significantly higher than, let's say, the average increase in prices of living needs. We therefore welcome the efforts made in this mandate, although we have been very critical during this mandate, on the measures put in place to manage the prices of medicines, i.e. the unsatisfactory measures taken by this Government, and these were also one of the signs of the intervention of the then Minister Bručan. Of course, there has been a significant understatement in this area. When we adopted the Medicinal Products Act, we wanted to incorporate a lot of these elements into this law, but we also complemented this law in terms of transparency. Only managing these costs is one set of content and another is ensuring transparency in identifying, ensuring and taking into account the criteria when deciding how a particular medicinal product will be classified on the list. At the LDS, we are convinced that two important criteria should also be applied in the implementation of the criteria; this is a so-called assessment of the public financial and economic, that is, the national economic effects of the classification of the medicinal product. We believe that these two criteria are extremely important criteria in order to have the best possible means, i.e. certain measures to manage the costs of medicines. Why are we introducing both an assessment of the public finances and the economic effects of the classification of the medicinal product? A public financial assessment means that when classifying a particular product, we define the impact this will have on ensuring financial stability within the health treasury; this is therefore an assessment of the impact on public funds in the health treasury. However, the economic impact is important because we are assessing this from the perspective of many times also by the President of the Government of expressed thoughts, so we are talking about the welfare of citizens. And we need to weigh both measures, fiscal and economic, because one can show positive compared to the other, which shows negative, and a common impact needs to be assessed. Because when we talk about a particular diagnosis and according to the options that doctors have, say, in determining therapy, it is very important that we also know these criteria. We therefore propose that in the context of Article 14, which has three subheadings, paragraphs 23a, 23b and 23c, Articles 23b and 23c, these two important criteria be incorporated into the content of Articles 23b and 23c, how and how to define the assessment of public financial effects and how and how to identify the economic effects of the classification of medicinal products. In this way, we are also following European practice, as such approaches are actually introduced by most countries in the European Union. The suggestions, guidance and proposals of the European Commission, which is sending Member States to incorporate these two important elements into their criteria, should also be followed. For the integration of these two elements enables consistent and efficient planning of public treasury expenditure. And it is certainly possible to follow this also because, based on the incorporation of these criteria, the positive impact of these assessments on the patient's greater accessibility to new therapies has been demonstrated, which is often an open question in Slovenia. In the amendment to Article 23c in the spirit of this Directive, which we have discussed both in the Medicinal Products Act and today, we want to make clear the reasons and criteria for the classification or non-grading of a particular medicinal product, which must also be made publicly available on the website of the institution. So we are proposing these amendments because we are introducing new criteria, but also for ensuring transparency in the process, i.e. transparent publication of all the criteria, assessments of these criteria that have decided whether classification has occurred or whether there has been a rejection of some classification of the medicinal product. It should therefore also be made clear in this minutes how public financial and economic studies or the effects of these studies were taken into account in a given decision. That is why we have proposed and proposed this in amending the Medicinal Products Act in order to ensure the measurement of both public financial and economic effects, as well as ensuring transparency in full form. I would like to point out here that we are very late or that we are very late in introducing elements and directives of efficiency. We have not done this in the phase of the adoption of the Medicinal Products Act, and we have had to correct it, we have received correction from the institution of the European Union, and we therefore reiterate that, with the additions that we are introducing here, we are ensuring transparency so that Slovenia does not be in the process again, so that it does not comply with its legal solutions to this Directive. We therefore invite colleagues and colleagues, as well as representatives of the Government, to listen to our arguments and to try to incorporate these criteria or criteria into the procedures we use in the classification of medicinal products on individual documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u70	Dear President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister! It's a very complicated matter, but it's such an important decision that I think there's still a word to add. 20% or a little less of public money for medicine means that there are also many things in the price of these medicines that should not be paid; if not, let me mention at least the costs for those marketing roots that are intended for purchasers and prescribers of medicines. But in general, there is a need to make decisions over and over again between some short-term sense of procurement or use of medicines and in the long run. For we know that any medicines that are cheap do not work well or work well at their price, are already mitigating any symptoms and so on, but do not bring health long-term, and, of course, on what other benefits they then burden the patient and ultimately the medical treasury. Other medicines, which are significantly more expensive in the initial phase or when purchased, do not, of course, have this - the economic assessment for them is poor, but in the long term they heal and then relieve the health care of all other costs. Or if I simplify: in fact, it is necessary to decide how we feel like a country, whether we are rich enough to be able to afford more expensive treatment at first and more effectively, whether we are not rich enough. Or I would make the decision here, and this is what all the amendments are talking about, that we need to stick to an old and effective principle: we are not rich enough to buy cheap. That's it. And that's what all the amendments we've made in the Liberal Democracy are talking about. And in a way, if they go to law school, then they're legally bound by that principle, and all those who get involved in it are bound by it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary Žiberna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u72	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Therefore, in these amendments, the importance of their content must be stressed in the first place. I can say that I trust the Members here that their purpose is good. Or the outcome of their amendment will be good, but I strongly doubt it. Their amendments in this package underline the phenomenon and importance of pharmacovigilance studies related to the classification of medicinal products. It could be said that they are important and anchored in this respect, since the amendment of the law in Article 23b, in addition to the eight criteria for the classification of medicinal products, also specifies that the assessment of the pharmacovigilance data for the medicinal product is also taken into account, which is in fact one and the same. We're here together and you're not actually introducing anything new here as a model of complementarity. However, something which I am deeply concerned about is the following: in the third point of the amendments you suggest, I will literally read what you wrote down 'the restriction of prescription can also be determined on the basis of economic criteria, taking into account the economy of the effectiveness of the prescription of the medicine to a particular group of patients'. Gentlemen, do you know what that means? This means that if the economy calculates that the investment for patients treated by this patient is not economically effective, this patient will not be given the medicine. That means you'll let him die, gentlemen and ladies. What you wrote here means exactly what you wrote. So, really, as a doctor, I do reject this extremely unsocial note that you've shown here. There's something else I'd like to say about drugs. It is true that it is not necessary for a cheap medicine to be effective. However, believe me, I have personally met many medications that have been very expensive and very promising and have contributed nothing to the treatment. So there are no unilateral truths here, but you can only see the truth on the basis of different criteria and observation over a long period of time. Your proposals are from the point of view of the social orientation of our society, including those who are truly sick and who also need very expensive medicines, which this society can still pay, and thank God, completely and completely unacceptable. I therefore recommend that, Members of Parliament and Members, that you completely reject them, while at the same time, the pharmacology studies are already in 23b. the article as one of the evaluation elements already in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u74	A friend. Thank you very much, Mr President. See, financial sustainability - normally it should also be maintained in this area. I agree with this, which some of the interlocutors have pointed out that this is a necessity, but I would point to some other aspect. Aren't those who have shown the greatest profits in the Republic of Slovenia? Aren't they the biggest paychecks there? Aren't the biggest profits in the field of pharmaceuticals? Different methods are also used for marketing, from paying trips, excursions, and I don't know what. In short, I would like to point out that our country, the Republic of Slovenia, has never before looked at this Mafia nest and that I should be forgiven. On purpose, I used this term, the white mafia, because in essence, the cost of producing medicines is not controlled by anyone in the Republic of Slovenia. Nobody. This is a perfect monopoly, and the medicine can achieve the price that manufacturers at the global or European level agree and, of course, impose it on individual countries. However, the restriction of regulation can in essence - with what the Secretary of State has said - I fully agree, and in some ways it has taken away my word. I wanted to talk about this - but it can turn even more macho, even more discriminatoryly, it can hurt even more different layers of society than it does today, because we know that not all medicines are available to everyone today. Unfortunately. Some have the privilege of being treated in a quality manner as a patient, while others have the privilege of being treated in a less quality manner. That's a fact. And if we introduce new restrictions, and this is certainly written in article 23b, then these differences will be even greater. I personally can't support it. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, strongly recommends that a little drop in the production costs of the pharmacy and a little look also at the balance sheets of these companies, which are all over the world, for the wonders of God, are very successful.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u76	Thank you very much, again. I have to say, when I read the whole amendment, I didn't really understand what it meant. Now that the Secretary of State has added something to this, this is confirmed by what I myself have been thinking about; that these amendments mean that this assessment of the public financial and economic effects is always done on what is least burdensome in economic terms. If so, of course this is totally unacceptable. I can tell you, as a veterinarian, that we used, say, one antibiotic that, like you wrote, if you only assessed it on public finances and economic criteria - say chloramphenicol, which had a wide range of activities and was very cheap, then from this point of view this medicine should remain in use, and yet it was removed from use, from some strategic, therapeutic effects. It's said to be kept as some kind of reserve for particularly difficult, emergency cases. However, if we only take into account the public financial and economic impact, we should use it because it would yield the best results on economic pay. It would be very effective, but also very cheap. The second thing that doesn't hold up, which is why these amendments don't hold up, and they're also, I don't know, the influence of the public. It also influences the public through media messages. Only when I think of one thing, the threatening avian influenza, when we got it, I don't know, a large amount of tamimiflu. For financial reasons, as you have written down, this was, of course, pointless. No one would do that, because I would say that the damage is so much and so many millions, I don't know, they'll be able to tell from the Ministry how much we've given. But the pressure of the public, and even then, of your fellow opposition, was such that no health minister with his team or any government would afford it, and I would say that we will not get a million doses of this medicine in a country that has two million inhabitants, because otherwise every day we would be dissecting it to death, that I don't know what it is and so on. It is said that all of this then destroys such economic planning and awareness that there is also a need to look at the effect on this side. But I'd like to make one point, because I'm already on the phone, and I've already warned you about that. In Slovenia, I think we have too much regulation, especially in the field of access to medicines. We have to take almost every medicine first to the doctor by prescription. If you are a chronic patient, you have to do it every three months, even if you have prescribed, I don't know, anti-cholesterol therapy or antihypertensive therapy or something. I propose - now, of course, there is no more time, but perhaps for the future - to consider this and still trust their citizens and citizens to know about these medicines as well, and that they can come to any medicine, especially when they need it, without waiting in the long line with the doctor and causing unnecessary species there and thus employ a medical cadre, which we always say is too small. I think that a whole range of drugs could be arranged, I don't know, like foreigners can get in the pharmacy, and they can buy a lot of drugs, or I don't know what it's like now, I know we used to go to Austria, but they didn't ask you about this and this recipe. You could've bought it. Today, for example, Croatians can buy a lot of things from us, but if you come to the pharmacy as a Slovenian, you have to bring a prescription. I could tell specific cases, but I don't know why, because you actually understand what I'm talking about. In this direction it would be necessary to make some more room and thus also protect the medical cash register, because many Slovenes would rather wait there in line and then something else with that file is wrong, the doctor goes on vacation or hospital, and then to another and so on, he would rather go to the pharmacy and, I don't know, that bloxan or whatever someone is taking, he can get without a prescription. And every now and then, of course, I would take care of my own health and go to the doctor and say, "Make sure you control me to see how this medicine works on my health." I think that such an approach would be in the direction of greater confidence in citizens and citizens, of course in the role of patients and patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. He's a freshman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. These amendments to Article 14 are not, in my opinion, acceptable and will not be supported. Even some of these amendments are dangerous, as State Secretary Žiberna has already said. Perhaps if we accepted these amendments, the question of who would benefit from them. I'm sure it's not insurance, it's not patients. Thus it is possible to understand from them and, perhaps, to fully understand these amendments, especially since everything or most of what is good in these proposals has been introduced into another part of the law and is already being regulated. Of course, at that time these coalitions were reduced for the first time, irrespective of the interpolation. There we have shown that the prices of medicines are decreasing, with the regulation in last year's year in 2007, and for the first time, the prices of medicinal products have decreased significantly and the cost of the medicines envisaged has decreased by €47 million. Of course, it was hugely designed to save on medicines. But there is always something else that can be found to make things better in this area. And this has also happened, and I think that this will be realized by the amendment of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u79	Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u80	Mr President! Dear fellows and fellows! In fact, something unusual appeared from this debate. We have heard two things: that amendments suck and, on the other hand, that all that amendments bring is in the law itself. So, what's the big deal? The law itself, if all that the amendment would bring is in the law itself. This, of course, is made up of fiction, so that insurance and patients would not benefit from it. Perhaps there is already an individual who wants the matter to be weighed differently than it would have been. But in the final stage, because this would protect public cash registers, insurance and patients would benefit, but those who would not benefit from the public cash cow, which is another thing. It must also be said that the third amendment referred to by the Secretary of State is not recorded as he said it is the only and final criterion. It's just an amendment. This is a restriction of prescription, "can also be determined" - you know, this is very, very conditional and is mainly related to the fact that a particular medicine can be economically effective for a particular group of patients while there are no other groups, and then this additional filter is used to solve the matter as necessary. This amendment, of course, protects or protects insured persons and patients in general. It is true, however, that it limits all of the medicines I mentioned earlier, namely, the manufacturers of medicines, their marketing agents, their subscribers and prescriptionrs. It's just that it's setting some limits, and that's also right, it's about public money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u81	Mr State Secretary Žiberna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u82	Thank you again for your word. So the rule of law, which will be based on this law, will actually be a regulation that will regulate a lot of things and also protect public money. I would like to stress once again that the pharmaceumics which are the branches of your amendments are already covered in the amendment of the law in Article 23.b. We do not agree that pharmacodynamics would be so predominant as to weigh all the other criteria that I would not now list, because if you read them, you will see for yourself why I think so. To explain the profit of the pharmacy. So, the official profits of pharmacies in Slovenia are at the European bottom, among the lowest in Europe are prescribed the profits of pharmacies on the basis of public money traffic. Those millions of euros, I think 12 of them, the surplus of all pharmacies in Slovenia last year, are mainly created on the basis of free transport, which is also created by pharmacies in addition to transport for public money. And of course this is some kind of trade that has a free economic initiative, and most of these profits, these 12 million, are from this segment. So the Ministry of Health has clearly established that and we can say that. At the same time, I would like to stress once again that official revenues from public money transport are at the bottom of Slovenian pharmacies among earnings on similar topics compared to European countries. And, of course, this part of the readings is flying unwarrantedly. It is also true that this year the European Court of Justice is likely to issue a judgment in autumn or winter that will actually regulate pharmacy in Europe in the sense of whether this concessional arrangement will be regulated or actually a free economic initiative. This is a key issue and this will be settled by the European Court of Justice in a uniform way for Europe as we have different arrangements in this area in Europe. However, as regards the free initiative to sell and buy medicines, including those that have a very strong impact on health or on an individual, there are, of course, both professionally and professionally against them and it will probably be necessary to approach some intermediate solution between the extreme liberal issue that they have in the United States, for example, and a more regulated matter that is in force in most European countries. This is likely to take place within the next year, given that the European Court of Justice is likely to settle some other segment in the field of pharmacy with a judgment. So that completely clean and reliable unilateral solutions are simply not possible here, but there is a need for an expert debate as well as a public debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u83	Mr. Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. So the essence of these amendments is that with these criteria we want to introduce the principle that everyone who needs the medicine gets the most effective medicine. The effects, fiscal and economic, may vary here and it is not necessary that the most cheap medicine will have good economic effects on the national economy. For the result may be a significantly longer treatment, a significantly longer absence from the workplace, a significantly worse feeling. On the other hand, public financial burden, which may be greater, can mean significantly better economic and national economic indicators. So: faster recovery, less side effects and faster return to normal life. And we just want to put it into this law. And, Mr Secretary of State, I don't know why you're afraid if we want to record clearly and loudly what you're saying is that it's somehow written into a blurry content. And they warn us, including international data, that this way we can increase accessibility and that Slovenia cannot be commended for this accessibility. We're among the 23 countries in 20th place. And the implementation of these criteria - of course we are sure - allows improvements to be made in this particular area. In addition, you know that the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance in its work is already using the effect in this way, as set out in the amendment to the third point. You know that, and I don't think it's right for you to then inspire us what we don't want to introduce with these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u85	Mr State Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u86	Well, one more time. 23.b Article lays down the criteria for the inclusion of medicinal products in a positive list and these criteria are the basis for the expert group that does so. So somewhere in the sixth or fifth criteria is an assessment of the pharmacovigilance data for the medicinal product. That's exactly what you're all about with a whole bunch of amendment texts, but that means exactly the same for those of us who can read. But it's one of the criteria, not the only criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u87	Mr. Mag. A little something, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. So these amendments have certain arguments, and according to the principle of the economy, it is important to take them into account. I am glad that the Liberal Democracy once woke up and started to introduce a little more serious criteria. Price increases in pharmaceutical and health care are extremely high and should therefore also be taken into account and because these amendments are actually aimed at linkages between wholesalers, pharmacists and the like. But since it's an additional criterion, I don't think they're a threat. But that's right, added value, and sometimes it's not. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] it is possible to build in this way, as Ambassador Sok mentioned that it is not possible to put everything into money. [[...]] And we're gonna have to take that into account. But this principle is certainly in the pharmaceutical and medicine that [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate on the amendments to Article 14. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT LAW, SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members. I give the text to the representative of the proposed law, Dr Mitja Slavinc, for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. A proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government has been tabled by a group of Members, with the first-signed by our late fellow Member Christian Janec. However, the law itself arose on the basis of his parliamentary question when he asked about the awards that the congregation gave to high - jubilee citizens. On the basis of that reply, it turned out that the legislation in force in this area is not entirely viable and that the practice being implemented is not in line with the legislation in force. Therefore, the group of Members, as has been said, with the first-signed Christian, has submitted a supplement to this law, the aim and purpose of which was to make existing legislation more viable and, above all, to bring it into line with the practice that is already taking place throughout Slovenia. For this reason, as a representative of the proponents, I ask all of you to support this law and in this way help us to make the legislation even more coherent and more viable, and not least, let us say good-bye again in Parliament from our late colleague and give him a peaceful land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I give the floor to the President, Mr France Jazbec, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development shall be held at its 19th meeting, on 1 January 2016. Seven. 2008 as a parent working body, the draft law on amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government, which was sent to the National Assembly for consideration and reception by a group of Members with a proposal to deal with and adopt after a reduced procedure. Before the meeting, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a law. Pursuant to Article 94 of the Law on Local Self-Government and Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on 29.5.2008, the President of the National Assembly sent a proposal for a law to the mayors of municipalities and municipalities. The deadline for sending opinions was 28.6.2008. Opinions familiar with the committee were sent by the mayors of Kamnik, the municipalities of Sevnica, the municipalities of Velenje, the municipalities of Ljubljana and the municipalities of Turnište and Krško. The meetings were attended by Dr. Ivan Žagar, Minister without a license, in charge of local self-government and regional policy, mag. Marko Starman, Secretary of State and Mag. Vesna Juvan Gotovac from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, Darko Fras, President of the Commission of the State Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, and representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of Nataš Vorsič. The legislative and legal service has examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. No comments were made on the proposed content of the legal supplement establishing the legal basis for the municipality to be able to collect personal data and to grant monetary assistance or symbolic prizes to its citizens. In its specific comments, however, it proposed only minor editorial corrections to the text of the provisions. The Government notes that a new indent of Article 21(2) of the Law on Local Self-Government is being inserted by a proposal for a law. The second paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on Local Self-Government provides for the tasks performed by the municipality in particular and satisfying the basic needs of the population. The government does not oppose the bill in its opinion, but it has proposed amendments to the legislative text in the sense of greater clarity as to the powers that the municipalities would receive with this amendment. In an additional introductory explanation of the articles, the first one signed on behalf of the group of proposers of the law explained that the reason for the adoption of the law was to establish a legal basis for the collection of personal data for the purpose of granting monetary assistance or symbolic awards to citizens by municipalities on special occasions and anniversary of their citizens. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service reiterated at the meeting that the Legislative and Legal Service has no comments on the content of the legislative supplement submitted. It noted only the urgent editorial corrections of the proposed text of the law. The Committee adopted the following amendments: Article 1, Article 2, and the title of the Act. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on both articles and the title of the proposed law together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text supplemented by the proposal for a law incorporating amendments is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marijan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u94	Dear Vice President! Honourable Minister with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! In practice, the parishes of Slovene municipalities face many problems, more or less important, sometimes more or less banal. In his work in the congregations, a respected late colleague of Christian’s came across one of them and tried to save her by means of this proposal to supplement the law. In the light of the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Law on Local Self-Government, mayors or municipalities are not allowed to collect personal data of their citizens for any purposes other than charitable purposes. In practice, this means that the congregation does not have a legal basis for obtaining data on newborns, on the more important anniversary of its citizens, and perhaps anything similar, nor can it, despite its desire and willingness, pay symbolic awards at such events. The proposal to supplement the law on local self-government will make this possible and we will therefore support the members of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we are talking about legislation in the field of local self-government, it must be said that we have not always agreed in the DeSUS Group with all the proposals and amendments that have been proposed and adopted so far. This path, however, should be said in the first place, that we are of course fully in favour of the proposed changes. It is a matter of a number of laws adopted in a way that is not perfect, either because of political interests or because the profession has not been taken into account, or because it is not possible to anticipate all life situations in advance and it is necessary to adapt legislation to these needs of life, and this is exactly what has happened. Several times, our colleague Janc first detected, prepared and proposed the adoption of such a law, Members and Members, and I am sure that today this proposal will also be adopted. The proposed amendment was based on what the information officer detected, and it is right to follow good practices that are carried out everywhere in Slovenia and which should also be in line with the rules. It is simply that we need to enable the municipalities to process the data that is available to them themselves so that they do not burden anyone who we want to show them affection, these are children, these are parents, these are the elderly, these are the ones who are re-reported by Jubilee etc., etc. I said that we support this in the DeSUS Group, so we were so much more surprised when some of us at the parent's work objected to entitlements, this kind of affection for our citizens and citizens, with the idea that it was actually about populism, and let them say what kind of populism it was when we remember newborns, when we remember children and their parents, and when, for example, symbolically, either on the day of the child, or on the day of the mother's day, or on the day of saving, for example, not only give them a gift, but we also urge them to become, through their parents, savers, of course, that from the very beginning of their lives, some way to define a lifestyle that thinks about saving and caring for the future. We were surprised when some spoke of the senseless waste of tax money. It has to be said that this is a matter of symbolic amounts, sometimes not even amounts, sometimes it is just a bouquet or something like that, and thus a challenge to show in municipalities, through mayors or mayors, some favor to people who are jubilants, or on other occasions - so we reject this kind of rejection of our entitlement. Some even had tax concerns and, of course, none of us who support this law or who co-signed it did not mean that we have to play tax legislation, but let us remind them that, for example, for the gift of children when they were born in the Income Act, it says that such rewards or such contributions are exempt from taxes. I think article 22 of the Income Act is the one who talks about it - if it is not the right number, but the content is exactly as I said it is. Some objected, however, that those who have 50 or 25 or 60 years of marriages should pay attention: they also considered it to be a marital dispute or a populist one. This is certainly not a matter of law, for this is the subject of the Marriage Act. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And the rulebook, adopted on this basis, says exactly how and when this is done: after someone has expressed this desire, through the parent in the administrative unit. [[...]] And since this proposal is about amending the law for the very same things that we in the Desus Group think are justified in supporting them, we will, of course, also provide unanimous support for this novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic on behalf of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! I'll be very plastic, I have two ladies in the Bellies, one will be 103 years old, and one will be 101 years old. Every year I visit them, and of course it is very difficult for me to imagine that these two ladies would come to the congregation and knock on my door and say, "Yes, Mr. Mayor, you have allowed us to use the information you need to congratulate us." This is the law. That's how it's supposed to happen if I didn't have the data and I wanted to find it. Of course, I would find it a bit funny, although I have a lot of respect for the information officer and I have known for many years, and I also appreciate that he warns me that I do not have a legal basis for collecting such data. It's very lifeless, it's "kiks" that we shouldn't even fix today, but we should know for ourselves when it comes to making a basic law. I am therefore convinced that many words of support for the Proposal for a Law on the Supplementation of the Law on Local Self-Government are not necessary and that this time the decision will be uniform, as the decision in the European Parliament should be when the Treaty of Lisbon is adopted. I hope that's what we're gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! In the Lip Group of Members, we will support the bill. Some congregations in our country have made decisions about the symbolic prizes, the symbolic gifts given at the high observances, or certain achievements of individual citizens so far. According to a strict line of law, they were in violation and, in some cases, they were also warned. We support or support such a law in order to simply satisfy that legal standard and that the municipalities will no longer be informed of such, in pronouns, "minor amounts" and "minor awards" for large parts of their individual citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Marijan Pojbič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u102	Your Honor! At the end of May, the Group of Members, with the first-signed Christian Janes, tabled a proposal for a law supplementing the law on local self-government in the parliamentary procedure. With the proposed addition, the applicants wanted to establish a legal basis that would allow municipalities to grant monetary assistance and symbolic awards on special occasions and anniversary of their citizens. In most congregations, however, they have already decided to grant assistance on special occasions and anniversaries and to award symbolic prizes. Before that time, however, the information officer warned that they did not have a legal basis for collecting personal data for these purposes. This is mainly the case with birth data, since the congregations would grant assistance to the parents of the newborn child or with symbolic awards would remind the elderly. The proposal for a law was unanimously adopted on the home committee, and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also positively identified itself until the proposed solution. The proposal did not, however, have a legislative and legal service other than editorial comments. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we support the proposal for a law supplementing the law on local self-government, as it will allow municipalities to obtain personal data on the basis of the law for the purpose of granting assistance on special occasions such as the birth of children, greeting cards on the occasion of the senior anniversary of older citizens and so on. Therefore, once again, we will be very happy to support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u104	Mr Vice President, Mr Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! We will also support this proposal for a law supplementing the law on local self-government in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. In doing so, we are very pleased that, despite or precisely because it is proposed by Members and Members, we have also added a few signatures from the Social Democrats' Group of Members, the Government has not replied to this proposal that it does not regulate the matter in its entirety and rejects it and that it will prepare its proposal, but that it could almost be called a miracle, it agrees with the proposal. So it is almost complete or even full consent, both on the working body and I hope that it will be here in the National Assembly. The problems faced by some mayors and later by all mayors or representatives of local communities, when they would like to send just a congratulations to those natural persons celebrating any anniversary in the local community, could be viewed as a violation and could be marked as a misuse of personal data. I think it is right that the local community has this information so that the mayors know exactly who and, of course, how many residents and residents are considered by their local self-government community. And if they opt for a card at a particular jubilee or perhaps even gifts in the form - they can also whisper that they have this option. And this possibility in Article 21, which is added, actually makes it possible for them to do so. It has already been pointed out in the case of newborns that in the case of a gift given as aid by some local communities, or in fact more a gift than an aid, that it is not taxed and that it is not a problem. Of course, there are problems everywhere else, with various gifts that I think we may have been overly involved in this area. They can also be symbolic gifts, and their values are also assessed very low, but it is still necessary to keep it in record and also to predict it as a prime law. Sometimes it's a lot more trouble and administration than it's all worth. But good, if we have such legislation, so be it. However, it is right, as I said, to allow mayors, as well as other representatives, or those who participate in the local government, to benefit from this data and that, as I said before, the mayor may send a congratulations on a single celebration without being specifically asked where he was born. I think it's worth supporting. And given that this proposal, which contains two articles, is only amended by Article 21, which says that the 18th indent is added, with the following content: "it can grant monetary aid and symbolic awards on special occasions or anniversary of citizens" that this is a change that is necessary and in the Group of Social Democrats we will also support.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. All together, a warm greeting, including to the minister, who also has this point, which is not a big story, is attentive to people and important that he attends this meeting and thus proves that the story supports them! Life makes finer little attentions and tiny trifles. And it is right that in such cases, when we see that the law in certain areas is not the best thing to adapt it and bring it to life. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we were one of the co-signers of this law, proposed by our late colleague Kristijan Janc, and also proved that he was a great politician, a great mayor who was obedient to people. The main reason to support the matter is that it is life - sustaining. In everyday life, both secular and ecclesiastical authorities are approached by a number of relatives and relatives who remind us that one of our citizens, citizens or citizens celebrates a special anniversary event, which is why it is also the duty of local communities and all authorities to join. By doing so, we will fulfill the commission that finally made us the electorate, that is, to listen to people and to try to make life better and better for all together. It is also true, of course, that the local personal data community never and never misuses, but when it is in the interests and well-being of our people to use and use them. By amending this law, we establish a legal basis on which municipalities will be able to grant monetary aid and symbolic awards on special occasions and anniversary of citizens. To this end, the congregation will also collect personal information from its citizens. The proposed novel has been prepared taking into account the warnings of the information officer, who, I must say, did the right thing. She saw the disharmony, saw the wrong conduct, and warned us as legislators that a matter that was not in line with the law should be corrected and put to life. So that, in the end, we do not make too much of a story, we will support the amendment of the law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia after a reduced procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Cyril Testen has the floor, on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u108	Mr President, Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! A proposal for amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government was tabled by a group of Members and Members of the various parliamentary groups, both coalition and opposition, with the first-signed late Mr Christian Jace. The purpose of the amendment of the law is to enable municipalities to obtain certain personal information that would enable them to receive adequate attention with a symbolic gift or financial assistance in certain cases, such as the birth of a child, the Jubilee of Older Citizens. Since in the New Slovenia Group we believe that this issue needs to be properly addressed in the Local Self-Government Act, we will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, at 12.30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed in half an hour, at 12:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u110	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members present and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. Is there any comment on the voting devices? [[No, no, ……]] We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on investments in public health institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 55 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We will decide on amendments to the amendment review, dated 11.7.2008. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 3, the candidates are the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 56 votes in favour, none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We continue to decide on the amendment to Article 13. The four members are the same: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. 62 Members and Members present, 60 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. In connection with Article 14, we will decide on the five amendments. First, we will decide on the amendment under order number one. The candidate is the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 36. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one is not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. The proposal is the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy Slovenia. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 37. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. We continue to decide on the third amendment. The proposal is the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy Slovenia. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to an amendment decision under order number 4. The proposal is the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy Slovenia. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 40. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 5. The proposal is the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy Slovenia. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 39. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted either. We have ended our vote on the amendments and thus a second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 3 and 13 of the Additional Proposal for a Law. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to these articles? [[No, no, ……]] I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that, due to the two amendments adopted, in the second reading, the proposal for a law is inconsistent, so we can move on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 64 votes against 1. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am also informing you here that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the cut-off of the 9th point - the second consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Mental Health. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We will first decide on the amendment to Article 1. The proposal is made by SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 38. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of four parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS to Article 4. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 11. The drafter shall be the LDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 43. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 39. The candidates are SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We continue to decide on the amendment to Article 42. The candidates are SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the four SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS groups to Article 51. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the last amendment, Article 70. The candidates are SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. Earlier, she had made a statement or made a wish to the minister. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Chairman. I propose that, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Mental Health be held at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u112	Thank you very much. You heard the proposal. We'll decide on the proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. So the National Assembly will have a third reading of the law on Tuesday, 15 July, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on External Matters. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am also informing you here that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 57 votes against one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2015. Since no amendments have been tabled to the resolution, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am also informing you here that both the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that due to the amendments adopted on the working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised, so we can move on to a decision. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th paragraph of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 51, the amendment of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 4. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have also ended this by voting on the amendments. However, since the draft law was not harmonised due to the amendment adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, the Government also prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 23, which you received on the bench. Does the representative of the Government want to say the word in connection with the harmonisation amendment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that. As Mr President has said, an amendment is needed in order to ensure the technical compatibility of the law. The proposal for the harmonisation amendment reads as follows: "In Article 23, the text of the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh sentence is replaced by the words of the fourth and fifth subparagraphs and the new sixth indent is deleted." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I believe everyone understands. Anybody else want to discuss this? "No." Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, presented by the Secretary of State to Article 23. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, for 50, for 3. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. That is why we can move on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, for 44, for 16. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - the consideration of the report on the work of the advocate for 2007. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation submitted to the assembly by the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present for 69, none against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against 0.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjournment of the 1st item on the agenda - questions raised by Members and Members. Before we go to the vote on the proposals of Members to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government or the Minister to the questions raised by the Members, I would like to point out that such a debate can only be held at an extraordinary meeting of the Assembly, which will be convened on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, i.e. with the signatures of at least one quarter of the Members. We will meet with the following proposals for conclusions. First time. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mitje Slavinca, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Ms Mojce Kucle Dolinar to the question of Mr Mitja Slavinc on the financing of student programmes. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 38. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We move on to the next decision of the assembly. In line with the proposal by Mrs Zveta Zalokar Orazem, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Zofija Mazej Kukovič to the question sent by Ambassador Cveta Zalokar Orazem regarding the staffing problems at the Neurological Clinic in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 39. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We're moving on. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Majde Potrat will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Andrej Bajuk, to the question of the Ambassador mags. Majde Potrat related to the use of funds to implement the periodic plan of the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 38. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. We're moving on. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Mitja Slavinc, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence, Karl Erjavac, to the question of Mr Mitje Slavinc, on the ROLE2 plans and the military station in Murska Sobota. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 40. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mrs Lovtijar Bebler, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice, Dr Lovr Šturm, and Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior, concerning an independent and impartial judiciary. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 40. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of Parliament, colleague Janko Vebra will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy of Mags. Mr Andrej Visiak asked Mr Jank Weber about the work of the Capital Society administration. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 41. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that this decision is not adopted either. It's a week. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Milana M. Cvikla will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence, Mr Karl Erjavac and Mr Dragutin Mate, Minister of the Interior, to the question of MP mags. Milan M. Szvikla regarding the assessment of the involvement of the police and MORS intelligence authorities in the purchase of 8x8. Comrade Squeakle, I'm asking if this is an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members. In my own name. Anybody else want to explain their voice in their own name? [[No, no, ……]] Member Milan M. Cwickl has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The National Assembly cannot remove the suspicion that the business of purchasing armored vehicles 8x8 was politically agreed, led intransparency, that it was by its very nature uneconomic. The National Assembly notes that there is a presence of clientelism and corruption in this business. This would be recorded in the Commission's report if the ruling coalition allowed the Commission to complete its work. This Decision and other observations will also be made available to the Slovenian public on Monday. Fortunately, in Finland, investigative bodies operate independently of the executive branch, so I asked the two ministers what they knew about these procedures, especially since Minister Erjavec said he had ordered intelligence and security services to check on people who were fully authorised to do business. On Wednesday, the ministers said they didn't know anything about it. Not even what was bad half an hour ago was reported by the Slovenian Press Agency that two others were arrested in Finland. If the National Assembly has a regular or extraordinary meeting, we regularly know that it cannot have one, it would be good to discuss it if Members of the ruling coalition hope so. Have a nice day and ask for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Can we move to a vote on a proposal for a decision just explained by my colleague Cvikl? [[Yeah.]] We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 41. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Školč, the Parliament will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of the question of the question of the rule of law by his fellow Member, Mr Školč. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, for 27, for 31. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that this decision is not adopted either. The ninth proposal for a decision was proposed by the MEP. Majda Potrat: The National Assembly held a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of the Mag. Majde Potrat with regard to the interpretation of statistics and comparison with public surveys. Mrs. Potter, would you like a word in your own name? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u117	Thank you. I propose that we hold a debate on the Government's response to the question raised by the Prime Minister, the question he wanted to explain to the Prime Minister, the difference between what his work and the state of the country is assessed by the Government and what people feel and experience on their skin and also say it in public opinion polls. The President of the Government simply established a fine self-image and drew attention to the great success of this government, but he did not answer the question of why people think they live worse than they did a year ago. In doing so, he relied on some of the research that they are, research back, more than a year ago. But people have the worst experience this year, in which inflation has increased so much. And this question was not answered by the Prime Minister. More. He encouraged people's feelings and what they say in public research. That is why I think it would be good to discuss this. Until then, the Government could also prepare an analysis of how very effective it was with the proposed amendments to the legislation. I could also say a lot at the expense of the measures and the favourable indicators with which it boasts, whether it be the difference in pay between women and men, or unemployment and statistics, or data on poor employees, or data on the poverty threshold. Therefore, it is sufficient to hold a discussion on the answer. I hope you support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-11-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 41. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 41.]] Before I conclude this agenda item, I ask you to clear all items off your benches on Monday morning, or you will no longer be able to reach them. Thank you. This also interrupts the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue, as it was said, on Monday, July 14th, at 9 a.m. Have a nice weekend and good luck!
