ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I begin the 33rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened under Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed and inform you that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Ivan Jelen, Franc Horvat, Bojan Kontič, Christian Janc, Dr. Marko Pavliha, Mag. Anton Rob and Mag. Franz Gniedarsich. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all agenda items. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 33rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 1 February 2008. I did not receive a motion to withdraw the item from the agenda. That is why we are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to extend the agenda by considering the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the public sector wage system by emergency procedure. You received an extension proposal by letter dated 4 February of this year. Members of the parliamentary groups would like a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda as previously stated. We're voting. 41 Members are present, which is insufficient for qualified decision-making or attendance. We'll repeat our decision. We'll vote next time. There are 46 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider this item as the third item of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference to the meeting and the addition adopted. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, all present, against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 33rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. In doing so, I inform you that, in accordance with the agreement reached at the College of the President of the National Assembly, we will today hold a debate and vote on agenda items 1 and 3. The debate and the vote on agenda 2 will be held next to an extraordinary meeting on Thursday, 14 February starting at 12 p.m. Eleven o'clock. I'm sorry. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - This is for the defence of the proposal to draw up a legislative referendum on the application of the law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community. I'd like to inform you that we have an hour's worth of time available for this point. The proposal for a legislative referendum was submitted to the assembly by the SNS Group of Members. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Bogdan Barovic, for a further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u2	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. My colleague and colleagues in the National Assembly, good day. The Honourable Minister is welcome. I'm glad you're with us. The referendum question offered by the Slovenian National Party is: So it offers citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Are you in favour of implementing the Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its regular meeting on 29 January? The question is quite clear. If you believe me or not, all the reasons that are professionally supported, I have stated several times on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and I do not want them anymore. But let me tell you again. John Cankar once wrote: "The people will write their own judgment. No, he won't have a hairline and not a tallar." I thought it was a great message. But it is obvious that this message is not accepted by many of the waters that have passed, many years past, and many words. The people will be re-written by the Frak and Talar. When a respected colleague of one of the political options told me, "Why don't you honestly tell the Slovenian National Party that you are against it?" That's not true. That's not true. We in the Slovenian National Party are thinking as we thought in adopting the Constitutional Treaty. Where we warned, "Just don't rush. Let's wait. Let's see what the impression is." Nobody listened to us. We were among the first to ratify it, but it wasn't accepted. And what Janek learns, Janek knows. Oh, my God! We've seen this before. Let us wait one more time at all because we are the Presidency. This is our wish why Slovenia and Slovenians should not have the first and only right to say that we are adopting the rules of the game laid down in the Treaty of Lisbon, called the Reform Treaty or the successors to the Constitutional Treaty. Why Slovenians and Slovenians can't say yes or no. The Irish said not twice in the Nice contract. This was years ago, when they were robbed by the Member States of the European Union, today the Irish are one of the leaders who create and guide most European countries. Why not Slovenia, which is similar to Ireland, which is small in size and size but large in heart, why Slovenia should not once say yes or no. If she says that, at the referendum, we will be most proud at all because we are leading because we are chairing the European Union. If she says no, she will draw attention to certain mistakes and also to Slovenia, which is a member of the 27 countries, among the 27 countries in the European Union, she has the right to say what she does not like. Do we, colleagues and colleagues, have the right as men to tell us what is wrong with us? Do we have or don't we? And if people say as they said at the time in 80%, almost 90%, yes, Europe, let them say that, the Treaty of Lisbon and the proudest nation, the proudest country in the European Union will be Slovenia. Let's give people a chance! You know, these are the rules of the game that we need to adopt, colleagues and colleagues. Once we say yes, the exit is gone. We agree with the rules of the game and we must respect them. Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I ask you once again to understand, to take the initiative for a referendum, tell people to decide for themselves. Let it not be written to the people of the judgment of the tapes and the talar, but let it be for the nation itself. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The proposal for a referendum was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Joseph Jerovšk, President, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr Minister with colleagues. At its 80th urgent meeting, under Rule 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered a proposal for a legislative referendum on the implementation of the Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, submitted for consideration by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. The representative of the proposalant, Mr Jelinčič, said that this time it was a second attempt to put the Treaty of Lisbon into effect, which amends the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, to call for a referendum and thus achieve high support for such a decision. It considers that 90 members of the National Assembly do not have the right to decide on the changes made by the Treaty of Lisbon, so it would be necessary to discuss this in the wider circle and to allow citizens and citizens of Slovenia to decide whether to support or not the referendum. The Committee was presented with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a legislative referendum was presented by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who first congratulated the Members on the adoption of the Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon. Regarding the proposal for a legislative referendum, he said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had already adopted an opinion on 28 January 2008 on the proposal for a referendum on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, which had also been tabled by the Slovenian Parliamentary Group of the National Party. At the time, the government considered that the referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon was not necessary, and it is also of the opinion that there is no need for a referendum on the implementation of the Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon. The appointed set out the main milestones that led to the invitation to tender for the Treaty of Lisbon in Lisbon on 13 December 2007 and stressed that the Treaty of Lisbon retains all the essential contents of the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, ratified by the National Assembly on 1 February 2005 by more than two-thirds of all Members. He said that the Lisbon Treaty does not tolerate the new sovereign powers of the Member States and introduces amendments to the statutes of the institutions and their functioning, increases the role of the European Parliament and the national parliaments, strengthens the efficiency and democratic functioning of the European Union. In an interesting debate, Members presented their views and views of the groups of Members. Aurelio Juri of Social Democracy explained that their parliamentary group opposes the proposal for a legislative referendum and joins the Government's opinion. It expressed the hope that ratification procedures will also succeed in other Member States. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Jožef Jerovšek, Milenko Ziherl and Franz Pukšič, also agreed that the referendum was not necessary. They considered that the citizens favoured the Treaty of Lisbon and the strengthening of the Union which this Treaty brings. They also recalled the benefits of Slovenia's membership in the European Union. As regards the opposition to the invitation to tender within the meaning of the legislative referendum, Mr Janez Drobnič, Member of the New Slovenia, and Mrs Majda Širc agreed that the referendum was not necessary, but she felt that there was not sufficient debate on the Treaty of Lisbon. LDS Member Jožef Školč first said that the proposal for a referendum was not a question of whether it was legitimate or smart, but whether it was necessary at this point. He said that it was not such an important issue that it would make sense to have the foundations of the Treaty of Lisbon, and that is why the LDS does not support the proposal to call for a legislative referendum. At the end of the discussion, the Committee voted on the next draft opinion. The Committee on Foreign Policy considers that the proposal to call for a legislative referendum on the implementation of the Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, which amends the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, is appropriate. The proposed opinion was voted against by one member of the Committee and voted against by 15 members of the Committee. The Committee on Foreign Policy is of the opinion that the proposal for a legislative referendum is not supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give my word to the government's representative. Dr Dimitrij Rupel is with us.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u6	Dear Mr. Vice President! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First of all, I welcome the decision taken by the National Assembly last week, on 29 January, to ratify the Treaty of Lisbon, which, as we have heard, amends the Treaty on EU, the Treaty establishing the European Community. I am pleased that the Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon back then supported 74 Members. On 28 January, the Government had already adopted an opinion on the proposal for a referendum on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, which had been tabled by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors, and had clearly expressed its opinion that a referendum on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon was not necessary. The Slovenian National Party submitted a proposal for a legislative referendum on the implementation of the Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon on 30 last month. First, I must say that the Government has not changed its mind, but I must repeat why. The Treaty of Lisbon is the result of long-standing debates that have taken place since the Convention for the Future of Europe, which has concluded its work with the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, through a period of reflection and until the final result, which is called the Treaty of Lisbon. The Slovenian public was involved in the debate all the way through. The participation of Slovenian representatives and the public at the time of the convention was also organised by the Slovenian Forum on the Future of Europe. This National Assembly ratified the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe on 1 February 2005 and the government has therefore continued the process of EU reform to preserve its institutional and functional changes, which are the same or very similar to the Treaty of Lisbon. In order for the Slovenian public to be as familiar with the content of the Treaty of Lisbon as possible, the National Assembly or its Committee for European Affairs, in cooperation with the SGEI, prepared a public consultation on the Reform Treaty, now called the Treaty of Lisbon, on 4 December last year. We are convinced that the Slovenian public was sufficiently involved in the debate on the Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, as well as the Treaty of Lisbon. Therefore, compared to the already ratified Treaty on the Constitution for Europe, the Treaty of Lisbon does not bring significant substantive changes. Changes aimed primarily at enhancing the effectiveness, democraticism and transparency of the EU's action are being maintained. The Treaty of Lisbon does not transfer additional rights to the EU. However, the three-pillar structure is being removed, which means that issues from the current first and third pillars will be dealt with in a more efficient manner. For example, I will give an example of the appointment of a High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. They'll be more democratic. As is known, greater opportunities are given to the European Parliament and a greater role is also intended for national parliaments in decision-making at EU level. And, of course, these first and third pillar issues will be more transparent. I am talking about the public debate in the world when it decides and votes on the draft legislative act. About the second pillar. It is said that the former second pillar, which covers foreign and security policy, does not affect the competence of the Member States, as is currently the case with regard to their foreign policy, with regard to their national representations in third countries and in international organisations. It should also be stressed that, under the Treaty of Lisbon in this area, the adoption of legislative acts is exclusive at Union level. I would like to point out that, given the current number of Member States, the purpose of regulating the institutions in the Treaty of Lisbon is to make them more effective and democratic. In addition, I would like to point out the fact that all the essential innovations that are now included in the Treaty of Lisbon have been known since we citizens of the Republic of Slovenia voted decisively in favour of joining the European Union in the 2003 referendum. That's when we were supported by 89.64% of voters. On the basis of these facts, the Government does not consider that a legislative referendum is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. I am pleased to inform you that I have been asked by the Liberal Democracy Club to present their position at the end. Because Dr. Mitja Slavinec is supposed to be stuck in traffic. I'm asking, who is opposed to this kind of decision to end them? No, no, no. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Member Anton Kokalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u8	Dear Minister, on your way out, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. On the first initiative, the New Slovenia Group has already made clear its position that it opposes the proposal for a referendum. On 13 December last year, the New Slovenia Group proposed that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia ratify the Treaty at an extraordinary meeting. If only we could go first. I also join the congratulations or the positive conclusion that we have done so. The reasons why we oppose the proposed referendum are as follows. Slovenia entered the European Union at a time when the debate was at the top or when the debate on a constitutional treaty, which is very similar to the Treaty of Lisbon, was in the final stage. This means that at the time the general public was involved in the content itself. We therefore agree that more details regarding information to the public were not needed, as was also shown by the public presentation of the content of the Treaty of Lisbon, here in the National Assembly on 4 December when the content was presented in four different aspects. From the perspective of national parliaments, the European Parliament, the European Commission and also the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. There was no interest. Given the reasons or arguments cited by the Slovenian National Party, of course we can agree that this is a change of decision-making in certain content of the operation. Especially in the content of the current third pillar. However, we believe that due to the extremely large problem of illegal migration and, above all, the threats still remain, there is a need to operationalise cooperation in the field of police and judicial cooperation in particular as a result of terrorist attacks. We therefore believe that the change in voting on the Council of the European Union in this part is justified. While we can also agree that the introduction of a yellow and orange chart for national parliaments does not constitute a very effective means, given that a large number of votes need to be collected in a very short time. However, our view is that the key role of parliaments in the European Union is at home. It is up to us how much we will be active in controlling the government, what it represents in the various Councils of the European Union, and it is here that we believe that the functioning of the National Assembly needs to be strengthened, and we believe that this is a key role of national parliaments. However, the possibilities offered by the current Treaty of Lisbon are additional options, and we also hope that there is an additional interest or additional incentive for the functioning of national parliaments. We say the extra head doesn't hurt. Otherwise, an invitation to a referendum would also mean a kind of transfer of responsibility from our shoulders to the shoulders of citizens and citizens, so if most or many Members do not know the content of this treaty well, of course it is unfair to expect citizens and citizens to do so, so it seems to us that the invitation to a referendum would be a kind of transfer of responsibility. In the New Slovenia Group, we also believe that at the time of the Presidency of the European Union Slovenia on the first priority, this is a good process of ratification of this Treaty of Lisbon, the most it can do with its example, it also did so last week, when it also ratified the Treaty and we very much doubt that it could be very precise for citizens and citizens to explain the details of this Treaty. We certainly do not want the content of the Treaty of Lisbon to harm us, as it did in France, in the Netherlands with regard to the Constitutional Treaty. In Nova Slovenija, we feel that the referendum is not necessary and once again we express our support for the rapid ratification of the National Assembly, which took place last week.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Jakob Preseknik will present the position of the SLS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I have nothing very new to add from what we have put as the opinion of the Group of Members on the first proposal. All I would say is that once people have said clearly, and with a very large majority, they once said that for the European Union, and in fact, it would be a bit of a mockery from people if they asked that question again on every occasion and put the burden back on someone, given that they gave us a mandate to make decisions about these things. We cannot pass on the fact that some countries that have literally rejected the adoption of the previous European Constitution because of internal problems are now amending their Constitution in order to allow their national Parliament to ratify this Treaty. Today, we are again considering this proposal for a referendum on ratification or on the implementation of the treaty tabled by a group of Members of the same delegation. The initiative was launched in connection with the repeal of the EU Enlargement Protocol. The proposer also substantiates his initiative by the fact that with the entry of Croatia and other countries into the EU, particularly the Western Balkan countries, voting rights in the EU world and the number of Members in the European Parliament will be relatively reduced. In fact, I repeat, this argument is ridiculous, as other EU Member States could look at the issue of enlargement in a similar way when Slovenia entered the EU. In particular, we must stress that we support further enlargement of the EU in the SLS. In fact, EU enlargement is a completely natural process and, despite some of the problems brought by enlargement, this is primarily an opportunity for both existing and future new EU members. As membership expands, the reform of the institutions and the functioning of the EU is, of course, more than necessary. The first is an attempt to reform the EU; unfortunately, the European Constitution has failed, and that is why the ratifications of the Treaty of Lisbon in the national parliaments of the Member States are so much more successful, and of course we welcome this. We believe that the issue of Croatia's entry into the EU is the one that has been the most encouraging to propose a referendum. In this regard, we are very clear in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The referendum on Croatia's entry into the EU is an extreme possibility of pressure that we are allowing in the event that Slovenian national interests cannot otherwise be protected, but this is certainly not a matter of ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon. The Treaty of Lisbon does not take the right of national countries to further specific enlargements of the EU. Further concrete enlargements will still have to be adopted with the consent of all Member States. On the basis of all that said in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the proposed referendum will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u12	Your Honor! Nor will we really support this proposal in the Group of Members. The proposal, which was presented as legal and necessary, is true, is legal. We're wondering about his need. Of course, in the light of the fact that the intention as expressed and presented by the applicants may be elsewhere than it would have been if the Slovenian referendum had been on the subject. The referendum refers, or the proposal for a referendum, to an unacceptable or opposition to the enlargement of the EU with neighbouring countries and others, which the applicant calls undeveloped and sees in this context as those who would eat the existing EU. Of course, we disagree with this interpretation and believe that it is not suitable for referendum thinking as well. However, once again, what we have always said in Really is unacceptable and really inappropriate in this context, that Slovenia in such a fast or so under-discussed way has approached the signing that citizens and citizens have certainly not been, we have not been sufficiently informed that we do not have such a text on the Treaty in such a way or in a different form on the table and that the issues surrounding the Treaty of Lisbon itself and the fundamental political act within the European Union remain largely unknown. Here we appeal again perhaps not at the right time, but there is never enough encouragement for the government to trigger much more in the field of information about what the Treaty of Lisbon itself brings to the Slovenes and to the Slovenes. Contrary to the previous interlocutor, we do not think that, for example, a referendum issue would be a mockery of citizens and citizens. Certainly not, it is, I stress, an important act that should be significantly more present in consciousness, which is said not only through information but also through discussions. The issue was not, in Parliament itself, at the time of ratification of the minimum time, I think no more than four hours, the reduced form of presentation of the disabled actually through the Rules of Procedure also by discussion, and the Treaty of Lisbon has agreed to the same level as any convention or ratification that we carry out within other treaties in the National Assembly. We are still standing here in the position that it was not appropriate, but the referendum is not a survey and it is not a place to solve this mess, I will say ignorance or lack of information. In fact, the intention of the proposers is to oppose enlargement and accounting with some, including neighbouring countries. This is not a suitable way, because the appropriate ways are all the others that we all know; ensuring conditions and also other ways, diplomatic, which perhaps all together we must imagine with the Government at the head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Comrade Willi Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Well, what we think in the DeSUS Group about the referendum, about the referendum question, about the contract and its content has already been said, lastly a few days ago, so there is no reason for us to specifically deepen and discuss it again for a long time. I am simply saying that we are not inclined, not to the question that is shaped as it is, not to examine the will of our citizens and citizens on this question raised at the referendum. It is our view that Slovenians too must have a positive attitude towards Europe and also to its constructive and other acts, that we must have an affirmative and not only positive relationship, but perhaps even some attitude of pro-activity. It is not enough to simply count the benefits and weaknesses and to be content only when something is beneficial to us. In this way, the new identity of the European Union, of which we, of course, are part, neither establishes nor establishes nor affirms. So they don't even get bigger weight. Findings that people, not just those on the streets, including those who are educated or people within this House, do not know everything and enough about what the Treaty says, are likely to contain. However, it is very questionable whether the referendum would help. Probably not much. Of course, it is a permanent task, a permanent task to deal with it and therefore not to consider it an act that we can then postpone and let it be covered with dust. But the referendum question does not talk about this, so how should we have a positive affirmative attitude towards this union, but more about whether we might not lose too much or give too much to someone, or perhaps not even be a little limited, shut down. It seems that he is even trying to suggest that when he mentions government in this matter, the government is even trying to impoverish our people and our land. We do not agree with this, and we believe that the weakness is the incarceration, the narrowness that we must not agree to, and that we must not over these, understand our participation as a loss of sovereignty, but as our participation in creating a new space, a new identity, a new cultural, economic, I do not know the moral, political, security and other environment, of which we must be an equal, equal partner. So these are the main reasons why we think it is right that the rafting has taken place as it is and that the referendum is not necessary and therefore we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Parliamentary Group will be presented by Member Zmago Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The Slovenian national party has tabled a proposal to call for a legislative referendum because our first attempt has failed. We believe that the referendum initiative is a legitimate and democratic act to be respected. Respect even more because it allows people to make decisions about matters that are vital to their lives, their future, their children’s future. Several Members have admitted that they have actually ratified a matter they do not even know. I think it's embarrassing. Even worse, citizens and citizens did not even know what was happening to them and how Members ratify something they did not even represent to the Slovenian people, unless they themselves understand it. The government did not try to put a document into public debate and just a few things, I would say professional responses, the responses of the professional public were in literature. In all, there were several articles written by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ main staff. The Latin people said you had to listen to the other side. We haven't heard from this other side, and we don't hear it today. Even today, people have not received well - founded contracts to know what is at stake. But if I go back to those professional articles written by the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it's beautifully written here. One of the secretaries of the RS Government's Law Service writes nicely that one of the most important issues in the Treaty of Lisbon is to ensure the Union's capacity for further enlargement. That's what you say. We're right. It is about wanting to expand the circle of their economic influences, the circle of their markets and markets and, of course, the possibility of buying everything that is good in certain countries to which they will spread. In order to take over the market in the first place, they will provide cheap labour and the like. The enlargement of the European Union now opens to Mongolia with the Treaty of Lisbon, or to continue. The end of the border is gone. The question is whether it is still the European Union. Because in geography, they taught us where the borders of Europe are. Someone said that it was a matter of putting responsibility on the shoulders and burdens of the population, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It's not about laying down responsibility. It's about being aware of what's going on in this thing. And I don't think the public really knows what this is about. We'll take something here, and the matter will go its way. But this path of yours can be very questionable. For Slovakia has already taken a step and they have not been able to ratify the treaty, because the opposition was against it. How they'll decide in the future, we don't know. French socialists are threatening the referendum. There's talk of a referendum in Britain. Ireland has a constitutionally defined referendum. Even in Italy, there are increasing calls for the wider segment to check and identify and agree to the Treaty of Lisbon. When a representative of the Slovenian People's Party said that we make fun of people, because we once said, "Yes." I'd say this representative is making fun of himself. Because once you say "I" doesn't mean that "I" says all things, forever. But if any things change, maybe sometimes you say no. I'm not giving this a case that this representative would understand. But I won't go into barns and stuff. But you might find a few good examples on this segment when it's called "I" and when some matter is called "no." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u17	Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Maybe I'll start in parables. I'll tell you everything else is nuances. Or maybe I should remind you of the so-called phosphistic stunt mentioned by many foreign economists. It goes something like this, you know, when you draw a pipe and then you make it over a pipe of cross and you say it's not a pipe anymore. Similarly, the story around the European Union or the Treaty of Lisbon is happening. At first, we had a constitutional contract. The National Assembly applauded, we were the first to approve, accept, ratify the Constitutional Treaty. But it was not accepted everywhere because people in European countries said no at the referendums. And then we drew a cross through a ratified European treaty and we ratified the Treaty of Lisbon in the National Assembly. But the Treaty of Lisbon, tell me, hand to heart, what brings Slovenia, what brings Slovenia and Slovenia today's Treaty of Lisbon? I say that there is no significant difference from what was in the Constitutional Treaty. And that's what a lot of foreign experts are sneezing, sorry. The Treaty of Lisbon is, according to the assessment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the known Lipa, a real attempt, an attempt by the European Union to avoid people's decisions in important, key decisions. The overall responsibility has shifted to national parliaments. Yes, by large European political February, it is possible to push through individual governments the national parliament to say, yes, this is the key difference from the US Constitution, the United States Constitution, where people have the right to decide on important decisions under the Constitution, constitutional regulation. This is the important difference, when in Europe today, we can no longer speak in Slovenia, I don't know, as Americans can say 'we, the people of the states', but we can say only and only the elite of Europe. We are not citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. These are narrow political elites who have the power to decide on behalf of individual citizens and citizens, including our countries, unfortunately respected colleagues and colleagues. And when I first listened, I regret that he is not among us again, an important man of the foreign policy of our country, Minister Ruple. Seven minutes, if I'm not mistaken, he took the time to attend today's hearing. Request for an invitation to tender for a referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon, in short. When I listened to him, Minister Rupel was talking about three, three pillars. I am sure that the vast majority of this House does not know what three pillars are. Minister Rupel spoke about the fact that we had enough opportunities for citizens and citizens, the Slovenian public, even one debate within the European Union Affairs Committee took place in Parliament, that we had the opportunity to be familiar with the content of the Treaty of Lisbon. But I would like to warn you at this moment, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is enough that we have always listened to Slovenia's tasks within the European Union. Our citizens and citizens need to be given pure wine, including the opportunities and rights that the European Union or this Treaty of Lisbon brings to our citizens and citizens. And in the Group of Non-Aligned Members of the Lip, we believe that the referendum is an opportunity to have a broad debate and that, finally, people decide what they want with their future. I believe we owe them so much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek will present the position of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u20	Respectable. We do not support the proposal for a legislative referendum on the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. We do not agree with the proposers that the referendum should be verified whether the Treaty of Lisbon enjoys broad support or would be rejected. Such verification is not necessary in our view, since there is still a broad consensus in Slovenia that Slovenia is an extremely important member of the European Union, as well as an agreement that an effective European Union is in the interest of Slovenia. The applicants argue with the interpretations of the Treaty of Lisbon, which they do not hold, that it opens its doors wide to the new members, which is intended to bring about a reduction in voting rights, a reduction in the number of European Members, a further transfer of the work of sovereign rights to the institutions of the European Union and a spillover of our development potential to help the new members. The Treaty of Lisbon on Enlargement does not bring about changes and does not provide for the abolition of the general agreement on the admission of new members. In addition, the first new enlargement will not take place soon, but the enlargement to the Western Balkan countries is in the strategic interest of Slovenia. In our view, the compromise presented by the Treaty of Lisbon for Slovenia is useful. It allows for greater efficiency, faster decision-making, which is urgently needed in the Union, which has grown to 27 members. The Treaty of Lisbon also plays a greater role in national parliaments, introduces the possibility of exit and introduces a new civil initiative institute, the effects of which will be followed with interest. All these solutions reduce the so-called democratic deficit. In our view, it would be bad for Slovenia and Europe if the European Union acted ineffectively and responded too slowly to the challenges posed by the modern world. The collapse of the ratification process of the European Treaty would gradually paralyze the European Union, would mean the drying of a united Europe and would be a step towards Europe at two paces, which is contrary to Slovenia's interests. The positive consequences of membership in the European Union and, in particular, the introduction of the euro and the abolition of the internal borders, the so-called Schengen, these consequences, the positive ones, have touched most Slovenians. We Slovenians feel this, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group we do not support a proposal that builds on the submenu of the drying up of the European idea. The agreement reached in the Lisbon Treaty is proof that the European idea is alive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u21	Thank you, too. Ambassador Miran Potrč will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Parliamentary and political parties in our country have had several times the opportunity to highlight their views and their attitude towards joining the European Union and regulating relations within the European Union. In my opinion, the Slovenian National Party, even when it was not yet divided into two groups of Members, stressed that it is Eurosceptic and does not support all efforts. This is a legitimate position, but I think we have to come from it. Even before the 1990s, we stressed the need not only for Slovenia's independence, but for the political, economic and other issues of action in the Republic of Slovenia, Europe and the European Union. Citizens and citizens of Slovenia have, in our belief, made a conscious decision on many occasions to live in the European Union. On 23 December 1990, in a multi-year effort to meet the conditions for full membership, and especially at the time of the referendum, to join the European Union on 23 March 2003. Most of the relations in the European Union were similar at the time to today, and we knew at the time that, because of greater democraticism and greater efficiency and a desire for the enlargement of the European Union, there was a need for new regulation. That is why we, as associate members, have been involved in the drafting of the Treaty on the Constitution of Europe and have also made a declaration to it. This National Assembly confirmed it without a referendum in the belief that it follows the majority of the will expressed to give a referendum to join the European Union of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Unfortunately, the Constitutional Treaty for Europe has not been adopted and efforts have continued in the European Union to create a text that could compromise a new decision. The so-called Treaty of Lisbon was adopted and it is right to point out that we have also participated in the formation of the content of this Treaty of Lisbon in the National Assembly in the Committee on European Affairs and also in the public domain. In the Group of Social Democrats, we do not create illusions that all solutions are ideal, but we are convinced that they are good for Slovenia and our citizens and citizens, and that we are not pretending to be the ones who could change the essential provisions of the treaties within the framework of the seven-and-twenty Slovenia, because they simply need to be aligned with all others. Today, after we have already ratified the Treaty of Lisbon Act on 29 January, amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community, we are deciding whether to go with the issue of the confirmation of this law on ratification to the referendum. In the Group of Members, we are opposed to the proposal to hold a referendum on this. Such a decision is possible, but in practice so far the referendum in the State Chamber has been adopted or on the basis of a qualified majority of Members and Members, that is to say, thirty or the basis of a majority opinion, which is necessary when most Members and Members think they condemn open questions that do not give them any hope of taking responsibility. In the Group of Members, we are convinced that we can take responsibility for the confirmation of the law on the referendum on the approval of the Treaty of Lisbon, that this decision is smart and useful and that it does not need to be confirmed at the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ambassador Mitja Slavinec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying a nice hello to all present. At the LDS, we estimate that the referendum initiative is certainly legitimate. At the same time, we note that there is no need for a referendum, that there is no need for an initiative, and here we are giving quite a few facts, justifications. The first is certainly rationality. At this point, there is no need to leave this issue to people to decide at the referendum. Even more so, if we look at how much the referendum on one side costs, not only is it costing, but it is in all organizational activities with it. On the other hand, what an answer to our day. The public is not fundamentally divided as to this decision. There are no two bipolar opinions in the public. Of course, we are also aware that the contract has its shortcomings. That it has solutions in which national interests are placed before the interests of the European Union. Some countries have managed to make exceptions for themselves in the contract. There are no such exceptions in this contract for Slovenia. Because if the others did, maybe we could try. Nevertheless, we are of the opinion that a referendum on these questions would not, or would not, improve the matter. Because we can only try or refuse and, given the situation in Slovenian society, we can expect confirmation. The argument that the public should be better acquainted with the content of the contract. Yeah. This argument certainly does. For the knowledge of the general public is too little. However, the referendum is not the instrument through which the public is informed. This opportunity has been missed. This opportunity should be made differently and is now not worth replacing with a referendum. To replace it in other ways. Finally, let me propose that we stop dealing with ourselves, but let us try, in the sense of the European Union, to look ahead and act openly, publicly. So in the spirit of the European Union. I warn you that the first step in this is, of course, to be taken here in the National Assembly. When, on the one hand, the European Union opens its doors to the public at large, the meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs, despite the proposed law that would put an end to this, remain closed. As it is said, we can take the first step right here in the National Assembly, and we can certainly put an end to this anomaly. In the light of the above, we will not support the proposal in the LDS House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u25	Thank you very much. During the debates or presentations of the views of the groups of Members, a colleague, Josip Bajc, applied for a procedural proposal. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, colleagues and colleagues. I thank everyone for presenting their views, including those who had a different opinion from the majority. However, I cannot go beyond the violation of the rules of procedure allowed by my colleague Jelinčič as the first person to sign a proposal for a referendum when, in presenting the views of the Slovenian National Party, two-thirds of his debate, he made a comment on the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. For this reason, Mr Vice-President, I ask you to warn such colleagues or colleagues, when we present our views again, after one law. And let Comrade Jelinčič start dealing with his barn, not with the barn of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Comrade Bajc, I will take your advice. Of course, it also comes from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And we're moving on to decision-making. We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: A legislative referendum on the implementation of the Law on the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon amending the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community is being opened. I should like to draw your attention to the fact that, on the basis of Article 11 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, a decision has been adopted if it is decided that if a majority of all Members vote for it, it will be 46 or more. Explanation of voice. I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Member Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Slovenian National Party wanted to give the Slovenians and Slovenes a clear and loud opportunity to choose their own way of life, to agree or disagree with the rules of the game, and then to carry the consequences of life and work in a certain community on the basis of some content. There's nothing wrong with that. And please, be patient. Another time. I cannot agree with the statement, so I say, in the end I will say the position that when Slovenians and Slovenians decided to join the European Union, this is now sacred. I don't know her, I respect her faith, but I don't know her. If someone marries, marries, and divorces later, but for various reasons, don't tell me that if I marry, it's sacred for the rest of my life when I say yes. That's not working. Don't talk to me. That's not working. Third time. Look, Ireland said no to the Nice Treaty twice. But the world didn't collapse. Ireland has remained in the European Union, the Treaty of Nice has been finalised so that even Slovenia has become a member on the basis of the restructuring of this Treaty after five years of waiting in the waiting room, I will no longer be a member, because Ireland has helped us and today Ireland is the world. Fourth time. Today I'm ashamed that my colleagues and my colleagues have confessed, well, I'm not ashamed, but maybe it's good that they say they know at least that they don't know anything. It is a shame in this House that people admit that they do not know the Treaty of Lisbon. It's a shame. And a fifth. Colleagues and colleagues, we're talking about three pillars. Two days ago, we were dealing with the intervention of the Minister of the Interior and shamefully let all of you who do not know that this is the third pillar, where sovereignty is fully transferred to the European Union. Shame on you. And we talked in the middle of nowhere. Because after the Lisbon Agreement, about "adio", to talk about internal politics, because the third pillar, which is transferred with the rights and duties of sovereignty in full, is the countries of the Republic of Slovenia to Europe. And then we'll jump on our heads again. "We didn't know that." Shame on you who don't know that. That's what people should say. Let people say, "We know it, we don't know it, we want it, we don't want it." So what's wrong here? What's wrong? I'm asking you to be smart about your decision. We will certainly be in favour of the proposed decision in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u29	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice in their own name? No, no, no. Then we can move on to a decision. So I'm stressing again. On the basis of Article 11 of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative, a decision will be adopted if the majority of all Members vote for it. That's 46 or more. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 7 votes against 54. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And we're moving on to 3. Period of the day - This is a proposal for a bill on amendments to the system of payments in the public sector. I am pleased to inform you that the draft law has been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Council, and I also give the floor to the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, for the introductory explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. The essence of the law before you is to harmonise wages throughout the public sector by 3.4% as of 1 January 2008, which is the difference between projected and actual inflation in 2007. The second point, or another point of content, of the law, refers to the inclusion of the President of the State Council in the salary system for officials. In the pay grade, in particular, the president is classified as the forty-fourth pay grade. Of course, this second point is linked to the amendment of the Law on the State Council, which was not adopted yesterday. It will have to be because the Constitutional Court has ruled that it would be unconstitutional if the President of the Council of State does not perform his functions professionally. This law is also the highlight of the complication created by the forecasting of the public sector strike, and the public sector unions announced, with a coordinated decision, a sentence that was due to take place on 30 January. As soon as this announcement was published, negotiations began between the Government and the Slovak Committee and the complication was resolved by a reasonable compromise. This is by raising wages in the public sector as of 1 January this year for the entire difference between last year's forecast inflation and actual inflation, so that wages at least retain their real value, while the second part of this compromise, which is not in agreement, is that wage imbalances in the public sector are eliminated with slightly slower dynamics. Thus, wage increases resulting from the new collective agreements of activities and professions take place at a time of time by eliminating the wage imbalance on 1 May, then the first quarter of the abolition of wages in proportion will take place, the second quarter of 1 January 2009 then September 2009 and March 2010. With this compromise, we have maintained wage growth in the public sector within reasonable frameworks or macroeconomicly sustainable frameworks, which is somewhere at the productivity growth level or for a few dozen percentage points above productivity growth. This opens up the possibility and space for the conclusion of the public sector's wage reform. This new pay system has already been established for directors in the public sector since 1 January this year for public sector officials also for you and us, Members, Ministers, the President of the Republic, the President of the Government and all other officials, including the judiciary. So this new system applies from January 1st, so we all got January's salary after some new ones, maybe even for some of the euro's lower wages. Payment reform in the public sector will be completed once collective contracts of activities and professions are concluded, i.e. the salaries of public servants are regulated by collective images. The general collective contract for the public sector was initialled in July this year, setting out the fundamental relationship between typical jobs or indicative jobs and also setting out all the allowances to be paid under the new public sector pay system. We are now heading towards the conclusion of negotiations on thirteen collective agreements on activities and occupations, and once this is concluded, all the conditions for the transition to the new pay system will be met. In fact, these negotiations are against the conclusion. In some activities, it is a little more difficult and a little slower, in some cases a little faster, and the government is also prepared to propose a change to the law, which would allow employees to be employed in those activities where they would have negotiated earlier also gone into the new pay system. For example, health care has been practically negotiated and there is no reason to wait for those in which negotiations are somewhat complicated. And the last sentence. Why is it an emergency marriage? This is because, of course, business reasons have been met and, above all, trade unions have proposed that the increase should be paid as soon as possible, i.e. already in the March payout with the January bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u31	Thank you very much. In the framework of the parliamentary examination of the draft law, the law was regarded by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home labour force. I give the floor to President Drag Koren to present the Committee's position or report.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings to Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament and the Minister with a co-worker! At its 47th emergency meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following an urgent procedure. That was this morning. First of all, the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, said that the government, with the strike committee of representative public sector unions, signed an agreement on the strike requirements of the strike committee of representative public sector unions with which wage harmonisation had been established since 1 January 2008. In view of this, the main solution to the proposal for a law on the harmonisation of wages from 1 January 2008 onwards is by increasing the starting salary for non-economic activities by 3.4% for the first tariff class. The bill also amends the classification of functions in payment classes and corrects the code of function of the Secretary of the State Council and adds the function of the President of the State Council, resulting from the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that this service had comments on the nomotechnic rules for the amendment of the law, which were taken into account by the amendments tabled. The amendment for the new Article 2a is necessary because the amendment to the Law on the State Council was not adopted yesterday at the meeting of the National Assembly. The representative of the Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia, Mr Branimir Štrukelj, welcomed the bill and asked for its acceptance at today's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, as this will allow for the harmonisation of wages already in February's salary. The members of the committee supported and welcomed the adoption of the agreement between the Government and the representative unions in the debate. Amendments of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS coalition group to 1 were tabled in the bill, followed by a transitional and final provision for the title of the new Chapter, Article 2 and Article 2a. Article adopted. The Committee also adopted all the articles of the bill below. Finally, a decision was taken calling on the Government to prepare a new law on the State Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will also be presented by colleague Drago Koren. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u34	Have a nice hello again. The harmonisation of public sector wage legislation started more than five years ago. The negotiations have been long and hard, but they have produced satisfactory effects through concession and negotiation. An agreement signed by the authorities of the 26 public sector unions with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia fulfils the first requirement of trade unions to raise basic wages by 3.4%. This increase will mitigate the impact of inflation and will also allow for appropriate balancing dynamics and guarantees that will really make this growth possible. Although the unions are not fully satisfied with the agreement, they would like to point out in the New Slovenia Group that this harmonisation is a good solution at the moment. The pay system must be sustainable because it is powered from a budget that is not a bottomless bag. Compromise does not threaten macroeconomic stability at this time. The salary raise is certainly not the only measure that ensures nominal wage growth. As a result of the decrease in tax rates, salaries increased by 7% in net amounts last year. The package of laws adopted at the previous extraordinary session will also mitigate the effects of high inflation on workers with the lowest income. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased to see that reason has prevailed in the negotiations. The pay system will certainly change and coordinate in the future, and we hope that everyone involved will be able to reach an agreement in the future, thus preventing undesirable effects that could damage the cash register to all citizens in the Republic of Slovenia. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by fellow Member Marjan Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary-General, with my fellow Members, Members of Parliament. The reform of the public sector wage system has been a topic that has recently played a significant role in the media. I hope that we will be able to complete this story today and that, on the basis of this bill, the new pay system will be introduced for all civil servants, directors and officials. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also signed an agreement with the Slovak Committee of Representative Unions of the Public Sector 25.1.2008 concerning the strike requirements of the Slovak Committee of representative trade unions with which wage harmonisation has been established since 1 January 2008. However, the basis for implementing these harmonisations is, of course, this proposed law. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome today's proposal for a law that will allow for the final harmonisation of public sector wages. The bill provides for an increase in the starting salary for non-economic activities for the real tariff class and for wage classes from the salary scale, both by 3.4%. I propose to the government that we adopt the law to enable the calculation of salaries and, at the same time, the calculation for the past period by applying the agreed starting salary and salary scales. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the adoption of the law is necessary in order for public servants to receive at least slightly higher wages as soon as possible, at least slightly to compensate for inflationary pressures. Members of the Slovenian People's Party therefore see no reason to oppose the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors should indeed be presented by colleague Vila Trofenik. The position of the DeSUS Group is taken by Mr Willi Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u38	Thank you very much. In very short, let me say that in the DeSUS Group, we are particularly pleased that sharp sentences, hard words, public confrontations in the process have been converted into an agreement, into some compromise that seems acceptable for the time being. This testifies to how important it is that negotiators really know how to negotiate, and they do not lose the will to endure until what is acceptable is found. We therefore support this proposal of the law. We support all three of its articles and the four amendments that have been tabled on these three articles and we will therefore vote in favour of the bill. We also agree that this law was adopted by emergency procedure. Because there would probably be a lot of trouble. Because work would be disrupted, processes at work and this would really mean probably consequences that would have side effects. However, I would like to point out that in the DeSUS Group, we would be very pleased if we had a similar, if not the same attitude towards the problems of those who receive social transfers. There we are not prepared in the National Assembly and in the Government to adopt proposals that would quickly and effectively address the problems of those who are socially depressed. But we're looking for other ways. One of these paths was such that it lasted for as long as two years. So we express dissatisfaction over this. Therefore, I would also like to point out that we will very briefly table a new proposal for a law on the coordination of social transfers, and we hope that then this bill will receive similar support, such as some other such laws, which favor the social difficulties proposed by the Government. With regard to the developments here yesterday and the need to table the fourth amendment today, we must also express our dissatisfaction with the non-voting of the law on the State Council. However, this dissatisfaction, at least in this sense, is now slightly smaller, because the committee, the parent working body, is by a modest majority, but would nevertheless be willing to invite the Government to address the weaknesses that we are witnessing to them. Because this is a government task. Both moral and legislative that it tries to eliminate its proposals and we hope that this fourth amendment, which has been adopted on the labour force today, will allow us to comply with the constitutional decision in a relatively short time and that we will have a president who will not only be declared and will be paid professionally for it. Otherwise, we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by the Member of the winner, Mr Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u40	Good afternoon, thank you very much for your word. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Sector Wage System is the right thing to do, and I have no doubt about the reception, and we will also support it in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. It also makes sense and reasonable sense that it has been adopted following an urgent procedure, after all, it is a matter of the strike request of the PSC's representative public sector unions, and it is true that this is the case. However, I fear that some things will start to accumulate and that the Minister of Public Administration will be subject to demands from day to day and will be more from day to day. I fear that they will be difficult to resolve, and there will certainly be some comments in every law. It is not a matter of making amendments and making changes, but it is certainly interesting that all ministers are in the 64th payment period, while for Members from the 58th to the 62nd payment grade there is a reserved place. I am pleased, however, that the Law on the State Council has fallen and that we will not have to give up any money for honorary functions, because the President of the State Council would be just in the same pay grade as the President of the National Assembly, that is to say very high for significantly less work, while the Deputy would have the same pay grade as Members, but Members are something other than representatives of the State Council, who are in fact the blind bowel of Slovenian Parliamentism, do not do much, work hard, problems and only do things abroad, when they go to visit, represent themselves as the second home of the National Assembly or the second home of the Slovenian Parliament. Once again, it is an important law, it is an important law, it is a smart law and we will support it in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u41	The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Ambassador Boštjan Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. And let me start at the beginning of the law, but not at the address, but what it says under the title is a procedure, maybe a few words about it, an emergency procedure. Perhaps someone does not know, but the urgent procedure is being enforced even then, or it can also be applied when there are difficult remedial consequences to the functioning of the country and I think that this law is one of the rare laws proposed by this Government under an emergency procedure, which really eliminates the difficult consequences for the functioning of this country if we consider that the country is composed of citizens and citizens. With this law, this government has avoided the foretold wave of strike. Don't say that it's some success, that it's some coordination, that I don't know how big it is, I'm gonna say the government's credits. The government was forced to make such a law if there were so many and so many people on the streets today and on February 6th. Also, the decision taken on the home work body that the government should prepare a new law on the State Council will be followed with joy by the unaffiliated members of the Lip Group, and I expect the government to prepare such a law for the next meeting, because also because this law was not supported yesterday, there has been these disagreements and the necessary adoption of amendments that have taken place by the government coalition. The amendments were more or less editorial in nature and were not about giving people anything else. The question that arises to me or to us in the unaffiliated Group of Members Lipa is whether this law is really enough or will last long enough, and will last long enough, in view of all the inflationary flows that are taking place in our country. Or it may not be necessary, but not only in the public sector, even in any other sector, to accept any other compromises, because inflation is significantly higher than wage growth, or if I say it a little more domestically: a litre of milk has been undermined significantly more than the government gives people this moment. According to the salary that is valid in the Republic of Slovenia and given the percentage of the increase in this salary that the government is offering them, we have added 2 children of milk to them, we have not given them a whole liter. I wonder whether the purpose is the real purpose of this National Assembly, given that every month the government is not ready to come to this Chamber and from day to day shifts meetings when we talk about inflation in this country and about possible government measures and proposals by the opposition that we will have to deal with such a law every month to prevent strikes in this country or similar laws. Last but not least, this law is only one step forward and will give people something, although 2 children of milk, regardless of inflationary flows, will also be supported by the Lipa Group of Non-Aligned Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Member Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Your Honor! Let me start by saying that we will support the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Of course, wage management in the public sector has a long and hard way to go. Slovenia's practically regulated system, emphasis on the system, no wages, I'm talking about the public sector, but the salaries were regulated by activity. Since a huge amount of money is being paid for in the public sector, a few billion euros a year is being set up for each country. A well-functioning system means finding a compromise between the ability of taxpayers, say the budget and the demands of employees. It is of paramount importance that the regulation, the placement of all public sector salaries into a system that prevents individual sectors from falling out and causing dissatisfaction with others, without the agreement of others, is said to all participants in this system. This also made the system regime in Slovenia so difficult. It was necessary to arrange, almost first to correct the sector’s inconsistencies and then to set up a tariff section. The Public Sector Wages Scheme Act was adopted in 2002, but the implementation date has repeatedly withdrawn, changed and so on in the future. So far, the system has only been introduced for directors in the public sector and for all officials since 1 January of this year. The proposed novelty, which was produced as a product of an agreement between the government and the strike committee of trade unions employed in the public sector, which provides for an increase in the starting salary for non-economic activities for the first tariff class by 3.4% and also for wage classes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome such an agreement reached among the negotiators. We hope that the wage system will also be applied to other employees in the public sector who are not yet subject to this system and that collective agreements will be signed and the system of public sector wages will be successfully closed. As I said at the outset, we support the proposed amendment in the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Ambassador Miran Potrč will present the position of the SD Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Members of the Social Democrats will be supported by the bill. We would not like to quote about the importance and role of both sides in the negotiation processes. It is probably necessary for the agreement to be reached to give recognition to both governments and trade unions, and even when it comes to recognising the government in such a case, it seems appropriate to say so. This is proof that social partnership, if the government understands it correctly, is willing to take into account that much better results than insisting on their own views and unwillingness to negotiate with the social partners. We are therefore pleased that we are the Social Democrats in our operations in recent years, even when we have contributed significantly in the government to the realization of the social partnership, and if the partnership not only between the government and the unions, but also between the government and employers in the private sector were to a greater extent established if it were established not only when it comes to salaries but also on many other important issues, our society would have better results. And let me stress that the Social Democrats are looking at social partnership more broadly than just to negotiate wages and trade unions. We also look at communication with other groups organised with civil society as a whole, and I must say that we regret that this Government has significantly reduced the quality of the debate with other groups and that there are fewer and fewer cases in which we receive laws in Parliament that are either negotiated with NGOs or have been properly coordinated, or at least that these organisations have been able to make appropriate comments and opinions. That is why this achievement is to be commended and stressed, and it is therefore appropriate to commend and also to stress the urgent procedure by which we are adopting the law today. I hope that something like yesterday will not happen to us today, nor will it be the same as the individual vote on the referendum issues and that this law will be voted on. I am pleased, however, that the mother labour body has adopted a proposal to propose to the government because we cannot demand that it submit to the National Assembly immediately amendments and additions to the Law on the State Council, in which, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, the matter of the salary of the President of the State Council should also be addressed. If this is and, in our opinion, is also in the position of the State Council, then if the Government is capable of doing so, if it is capable of doing so, let the Constitutional Commission, if it is capable of doing so, carry out a more thorough debate on the position of the State Council, the problem of the State Council and its relations with it cannot be resolved in such a way as to disregard the decision of the Constitutional Court, which some parliamentary groups did yesterday consciously. I hope that, on the basis of the new proposal, the decisions will be different and I hope that all the parliamentary groups today will support the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Public Sector Wages Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Position Member Aleš Gulič will present the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u48	Dear Members, Members, President, Mr Minister. The Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. I am pleased to support it because it has finally come to some kind of agreement and we can actually take this arrangement as some kind of model for our work in this House. We need to negotiate, talk and find common solutions. Voting itself is obviously not enough to satisfy citizens and citizens. Of course, there's something else I could say. In fact, the bill on amendments to the Law and Supplements is not as ideal as the law itself does and there is much to be said. A colleague from the Slovenian National Party mentioned earlier that Members were placed in the 58th grade of payment and that, of course, this would not support any criticism compared to some in the national world. But, of course, the matter is even more complicated. Only Members of Parliament can never find the right time. Once it's too close to past elections, once it's too close to the upcoming elections. "De jure" of course we are between 62 and 58 classes, but "de fact" is 56 and 52 classes, because of those famous 20% that are pulling. Not to talk about working conditions. We can't say that working conditions are bad, that it saves, say, even in small things like not getting a sandwich in the dining room after eight o'clock in the evening, even if it lasts until one o'clock in the morning. And to say that the radiators are shutting down, I don't know what kind of robot is being set up to do it for us. This is a type of thing that we don't really know, we don't want to articulate, and of course we don't want to upset citizens and citizens. Citizens and citizens know very well that those who cannot stand up for themselves can't stand up for others, and they don't want to, and I'm talking about it right now. It's about these things because it's an opportunity and you don't have to be surprised and look at the ground, at your colleagues and at your colleagues. It will also be necessary to stand up for itself and for all citizens and citizens. I hope that's what we are. Otherwise, as we say, we support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the System and Amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-02-07-SDZ4-Izredna-33.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with your presentation by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not informed me that the law would not be harmonised due to the amendments adopted in the home labour body. We can go to the vote. We're voting. 52 Members and Members were present, 51 members voted in favour of the law, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. I hereby adjourn the 33rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed on Thursday 14.2.2008 at 11.00. Have a nice day ahead.
