ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u1	Good morning, good morning! Members and Members present, please take their seats. By witnessing the continuation of the 39th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Mag. Vasj Klavor and Dr. Mark Pavlich. We're moving on to 26. PENALTIES OF THE DAY - REGULAR DECISION ON THE PENALTARY LAW. I'd like to inform you that we have an hour of time available for this item. The Council of State is held at the 4th extraordinary meeting, on 29. 4. In 2008, he decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, he would require the National Assembly to rule again on the Penal Code before declaring the law. I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State for further explanation. Mr. Michael Jenčič, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Thank you for your word. The Council of State voted in favour of a re-decision on the Penal Code and gave written reasons for its suspension veto. As rapporteur, this written explanation should be accompanied by an explanation, namely that the State Council has not voted veto because the new Code of Criminal Procedure introduces a register of pedophiles because it extends the limitation period because it introduces a new penalty-life imprisonment, because in fact, criminal offences that have not been criminalised so far and other changes to the specific work should be introduced. The Council of State voted veto because it assesses that the new criminal code constitutes a non-necessary reform of criminal law has not been agreed upon, on which operators are not prepared, but also gold performers and legal professions believe that the provisions are controversial. The explanation here can only be very short and very simplified, that the Penal Code consists of two parts, namely the general and special work. The specific work lays down offences and lays down principles in general. And these principles have changed the new penal code. The proposer decided to amend it, which is unlikely to be necessary. In fact, until today, the proposaler has not explained why such a change as is now necessary in the Penal Code in general work. There has been no explanation so far, necessary and agreed. The agreed amendment was by no means among the coalition partners until the end of the previous year, for it was not known at all that the Penal Code was not in conformity with the general work and therefore the implementing bodies of this regulation, namely the police, prosecutors, courts, lawyers, were not prepared for many and extensive amendments. At first glance, it may not be numerous and extensive, but the changes are so radical that it is necessary in practice for any crime for which, if it persists, it is necessary to determine whether the elements of the offence are listed. The Council of State estimates that, in the face of an enviable situation in the judiciary, this will cause additional judicial backlogs, which is why the Council of State has adopted a veto because it considers that such codification of the Penal Code is not necessary, but the Council of State is no doubt advocating novelties because some solutions are useful, perhaps even necessary at this time. A novel without a change in the general work could achieve what the proposer wanted to achieve with such a broad and radical amendment of the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I give the floor to the President, Mr Drag Koren, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u4	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings to Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government and the Council of State. At its 51st emergency meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Penal Code. In the beginning, a representative of the Council of State stressed that it was an extremely important law, a so-called small constitution. Therefore, the proposer and the legislator would be obliged to prove that the applicable code does not fulfil its function, which is why it should be replaced by a new code. The Council of State rejects the applicants' claims justifying the need to adopt the new Penal Code, namely that the applicable Penal Code has not been adapted to the transformation of the Republic of Slovenia since 1990, that it is not substantively and formally integrated into the legal system, that it is not subject to the principle of legality and that the European Union requires a greater coherence of criminal law. The arguments for rejecting these claims are that the current Code is undoubtedly adapted to the transformation of the Republic of Slovenia, as it has always been unobstructed. In view of the fact that the Penal Code consists of two parts, the General and the Special, the representative of the State Council stressed that the State Council does not have any specific comments on the amended or newly introduced offences in the specific work, but has comments on the substantial changes in the general work which constitute a reform of criminal law in the country. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service then presented the written opinion of this service and then the representative of the Government explained certain circumstances and changes to the Code and rejected the arguments resulting from the reasons for the request of the State Council. He pointed out that despite the veto voted, the government estimates that the code is good, professionally appropriate, as it is based on the findings and proposals of 12-year-old discussions on various judicial and other professional matters and on a research project on the modern direction of criminal substantive law, which was drawn up by the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana for the Ministry. The Code has also been the subject of interdepartmental coordination and public debate for longer than usual in the adoption of other laws and a public presentation of opinions has also been carried out in the framework of the legislative procedure. Some members of the Committee expressed their support for the Code as they expressed their conviction that it had been prepared with due thought and expertise and that there was sufficient opportunity and time for professional discussion to be prepared in the process of adoption. It is not possible to argue that the users of the law are not prepared for the changes they will have to take into account in their work and that there is still no established case law on amended and newly introduced institutions, as it cannot be designed in advance, but is formed only in the application process. On the contrary, other members of the Committee expressed opposition to the law and felt that the request of the Council of State was justified. At the time of the adoption of the new Penal Code, many legal experts, as well as the Legal and Legal Service, the Government and the National Assembly, expressed their concerns. They rejected the claims of 12-year-old expert discussions on amendments to the Penal Code, as discussions in the field of substantive criminal law, which are ongoing, cannot be considered an organised debate on the new criminal code. They stressed that the Code is not opposed by some of the new criminal qualifications it brings in special work, but by incomplete and unclear solutions in general work. Following the discussion, the Committee decided whether the Penal Code was appropriate. The Committee did not adopt its opinion because it was not voted on by the majority of the members of the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proposal for a bill to explain the opinion. With us is Secretary of State Robert Marolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members, the distinguished representative of the Council of State! The Penal Code, which you will re-vote, is voted by the Council of State by only 16 votes in favour of 40, i.e. less than half of the councillors, especially on a proposal from the unions. We are convinced that the Code is modern, appropriate and significantly better from now on. The Code is in conformity with international conventions and other international instruments. The proposal for a new criminal code was also fully aligned with all coalition parties and unanimously adopted in the Government. The new penal code pursues three important objectives. First of all, the fight against corruption. The law specifically criminalises all possible forms of corruption both in the economy and in relation to officials and public servants. These offences are consistent with the provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Community, the United Nations Convention against Corruption and in accordance with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development Action Plan [[OECD]] . Appropriate identification and sanctioning of these crimes is, inter alia, a condition for the admission of the Republic of Slovenia to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development [[OECD]] . The incrimination of these acts has so far been flawed, causing problems in practice. The new criminal code thus constitutes an essential contribution to an effective, successful fight against corruption. Second target. The new Code means significantly greater protection for workers, workers and mothers. New crime in the field of labour relations and social security is an important novelty. The law provides for a specific form of criminal offence in the field of infringement of the rights of workers, which employers prevent from becoming pregnant or giving birth to a child at the time of employment. The result is that workers have to agree to illegal conditions and blackmail in order to maintain their jobs, which will be identified as a crime in a new manner. Also, as a special crime, bullying in the workplace, the so-called mobbing, will be sanctioned. The novelty of the Code also constitutes a criminal offence of black employment involving worse cases of such employment, i.e. the employment of several persons who are not registered by the perpetrator for adequate insurance and do not pay the prescribed contributions for them. We can therefore rightly be surprised that the veto proposal was primarily supported by union representatives. And a third goal, protecting people under 15 years of age. The new Penal Code will make an important contribution to the effective fight against sexual abuse and exploitation of minors and minors. This raises the lower limit of the sanctions at stake in these offences. The protection of their identity will also be ensured on the Internet and in various court proceedings. The introduction of the Institute for the Further Crime in the General Part of the Penal Code will ensure that courts for such offences will in particular impose higher penalties. The legal text is also based on the Council Framework Decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography and has been prepared with the assistance of a civil society dealing with child protection against exploitation. In this area, the limitation periods are also duly extended so that the perpetrators of crimes can no longer avoid the time limits of justice. For the worst crimes of sexual violence against minors, it will only be 30 years after the victim has reached the age of 48. In the text of the general work, we followed the penal codes of Austria, Germany and the new criminal code of Finland, which is particularly important, since Finland's new criminal code is the latest and most recent criminal code in the European Union. We estimate that Slovenia needs a new Penal Code. We reject the State Council's statements entirely because they are not based on concrete substantive proposals, but on flat-rate indications. Dear Members and Members! I suggest you support the new penal code in re-voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by colleague Aleš Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u8	Good morning, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, presidents, distinguished guests! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, of course, we do not support, we still do not support, the Proposal for a Penal Code. In fact, nothing has changed since these recent discussions, which is in some ways common. The reasons, of course, can be listed very briefly. The proposal for a criminal code goes in a repressive direction. We're talking about that general work. Of course, something else could be dealt with in a specific work, but the law is presented in a way that is fully accepted. You know very well what happened with the amendments. The amendments were accepted after, I'll say, an ultra-accelerated procedure, there for about 40 seconds on one amendment was on the committee. What was discussed was, in fact, minimized, a few nomotechnic matters. As far as the profession is concerned, it was in some way cooperative, but it was not taken into account. What the Secretary of State states as a two-year job was a job that was in vain was rejected, and of course then the group that prepared it was composed by three experts. We know how they advocated this proposal in public. I had a feeling that, with the exception of Professor Belett, they didn't even know exactly what was written. As far as the Law-Legal Service is concerned, she had a very large number of comments. I'm talking about the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Government law enforcement has also had serious concerns. But it all went away. That it is about cheering for a change of this law, a series of ugly tricks is also referred to as what we have heard today that only 16 saints out of 40 confirm the reception of the veto. Of course, this is true, but it must also be said that there were 27 present at this meeting. That's a little different. And that to those 13 who were missing, of course, the Secretary of State cannot also attribute that they would be for marriage and against veto. That's not how you do it. In fact, the same was true of that part of the presentation in the public. Two large lamps were lit, namely the life - or life - imprisonment headlamp and the headlight connected to sexual offenses, and this became entwined. While the first part, which is much more controversial, was not spoken. The second was, of course, a long story about how this matter has been 12 or, I don't know, how many years since there were more of them, since we have come from two years later to discuss the Penal Code for 10 and 15 years. Of course that's not true. The Penal Code could be discussed at a time when it was publicly published for force. And no sooner. A thousand-year-old dream of the Penal Code is another thing. Mainly, those things that were acceptable would, of course, be able to deal with the novel, not with such a rigorous intervention, but for which there was really not enough time. And speaking of how it was at the public hearing, let us also say that all those who advocated the code came from the Ministry of Justice. They were brought in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Member Drago Koren. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u10	Once again a nice greeting to everyone in this room. Let me first say that we have a different opinion in New Slovenia and we are convinced that the new penal code is good, that the new criminal code is also necessary and I must say that in New Slovenia we were very surprised when the State Council voted veto on this new criminal code. This is all the more so because even the State Council Commission was of the opinion that there is no need and it is not appropriate for a procrastination veto to be voted on in the State Council. I will walk a little over these statements and the arguments put forward by the State Council in explanation of this request. First of all, let me touch on the one mentioned here today, this argument is that there has been no coordination between coalition partners. Yes, to this day I did not know that the Council of State was concerned about the coordinated functioning of the National Assembly coalition. At the beginning of this explanation, the Council of State wrote: "For the position and opposition, the rule of law is particularly appropriate before the elections. However, it is unsustainable if, in a politically heated period before the elections, the state changes long-term important systemic criminal justice solutions. The debates around change are politicized in such situations, the real reasons are replaced by ideological definitions, the means mix with goals, personal opposition and resentments prevail over facts and professional standards." Yeah, when I was reading and thinking about it, I was thinking -- yeah, why didn't we go on vacation last fall because we're in pre-election time. The Penal Code, we know that it began to be discussed last autumn, was in inter-resort coordination, that many years ago it was preparing for the profession to work here, but that there was still disagreement within the profession, but it is normal. We live, I think, in a democratic country now, we no longer have the same mind when everyone should think the same. So, this argument that it is not a good time, because we are in pre-election time, I have to say no, because I think that we Members are obliged to work and do this properly until the end of the term of office. The second argument that we cannot agree to in Novi Slovenija is that there is no established case law. This is also the argument that the National Assembly is to close, because every new law adopted means a new practice of the authorities concerned and that we cannot adopt a new criminal code because there is no established case law, it cannot and cannot sustain it. And the last thing I'm going to rely on is this record in explanation. The Council of State considers that it represents a legislative orientation of criminal policy in an authoritarian and repressive direction, which means that the law demonstrates the irresponsibility of the proposer and members of the National Assembly to ensure that, for one of the fundamental laws of the Constitution, one of the most important provisions governing the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms does not seek a consensus between the proposal and the professional public, which will have to apply the law and the consensus between the proposal and the citizens and citizens on which the law will directly affect. For the last part of the sentence, I have to say, I was wondering what that means. I have understood it in such a way that the Government and Members in negotiations with our criminals, with our prisoners and with them should reach consensus and form such a law as they will agree to. Yeah, well, I don't think it can be that way. When a certain crime occurs in Slovenia, certain accidents, serious crimes then everyone jumps into the "louft" and is looking for a responsible person for such matters. I am sure that the new Penal Code will help to ensure that there is more order in this area, that it will speed up the work of the courts and that there will be fewer judicial backlogs, so we will re-support the law in Nova Slovenija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Member Marjan Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u12	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! We have always felt in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that the provisions of criminal law must be formulated in accordance with the principles and spirit of our Slovenian Constitution. It is important to ensure that the Penal Code adequately regulates the protection of human rights, especially as regards criminal liability, the inviolability of human life and freedom of expression. It must be shaped in the spirit of a modern democratic state and respect for the freedoms and values we have gained through independence. In the vote on the amendment of the Penal Code, we in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party came mainly from the point of view that it was necessary for such important matter to take sufficient time for a thorough discussion and to involve the professional public in the public debate. We therefore supported the proposal to hold a general debate and a public presentation of opinions, and a rather broad debate on adequacy and even the need for a new criminal code has developed. We believe that the competent ministry has led a broad public debate, from which a number of proposals have been included in the new criminal code. In view of the fact that the debate was too short and in a narrow circle, all we can say is that the debate ended in 12 years at various judicial and other professional consultations. The greatest controversy in the public has been the imposition of the death penalty, which is intended for extremely serious crimes such as genocide, crimes against humanity, war crime, aggression. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that in this case it is so rejected that Slovenia should not be lagging behind 24 other European countries that know such punishment. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have supported the Penal Code and we will support it once again because it foresees certain crimes that are not contained in the current Penal Code because it introduces the necessary conceptual changes in the field of criminal law and also because it follows the idea of possible rehabilitation of the perpetrator. We find it more meaningful to adapt sanctions to perpetrators of crimes. We already know from abroad that certain prison sentences can be held free for the general benefit of work. However, it is only right that, for a certain minimum penalty, prison may also impose a substitute sentence of house arrest. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will reconfirm the proposal of the Penal Code because the new concept of criminal law is aimed at the European environment and breaks with the past and because we believe that the text is professionally appropriate and a recast of criminal law is urgently needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u13	Thank you, too. Ambassador Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u14	Your Honor! In the Group of Members, indeed, this time we will not support the new penal code. Let me point out at the outset that it is true that Slovenian justice is being choked in arrears, but the radical and excessive legal standardisation brought by this criminal code will certainly begin to increase the remnants. On 1 November, when the Penal Code is to be in force, there will be a collapse, as no one will be prepared for such major changes. I can say that for the rule of law this year, November 1st will indeed be the day of the dead. On this day there is no doubt that you will, today is a smile, Mr Secretary of State, on November 1st, your face will be sad and you will remember all those warnings from the academic profession that talked about it. And I hope that at that time, the guilt will not be passed on to an overly contentious nation, as is often said today, either to corrupt judges, incompetent prosecutors and greedy lawyers, who are already the target of criticism. At that time, remember that 60 articles of the Penal Code were adopted by them in the National Assembly for a minute. The reform of the judiciary is already recognised by the Government, which has not offered a novel, but a completely new text and not a minor change. Today it has been said that we are following the latest German example very quickly. But the Germans are already interfering with the changes they have made today; if I only mention the issue of biogenetics, which is so restrictively regulated, it disturbs the scientific work that I do not speak of others. I'm not going to repeat that many, certainly not all, of course, solutions are controversial, "slappy" written down, unconstant. Okay, legal error remains. Under the new penal code, for example, a legal error would not go hand in hand, as it did in the case of our former colleague in the National Assembly. We have repeatedly said that certain solutions are acceptable. But the will is greater than reason for those solutions that are not acceptable. This is said to be the last time, in fact, that on November 1st, the entire judicial branch will be in such difficulties that serious delays in criminal proceedings will arise and thus the problem of Slovenian justice has been increasing for many years. Within a few months, neither the practice nor the theory will be absorbed, even though none of the users of the law go on vacation. And what is the meaning of the period in which a law needs to enter into force, to which we are alert, and to which it leads into this collapse? In order for users to become familiar with it, which is only a first task, there is still a case-law that is not irrelevant and must set new standards. However, this practice may take several years to form at all. Let us recall only the previous two minor amendments to the Code in 1994, 1999, 2004, when in some cases it took three or even four years for the courts to reach a legal decision. In criminal law, the rule that the law applicable to the offender at the time of the service of a criminal offence shall apply to the offender, but if the law has changed until the time of service, then the principle of the application of the minor code shall apply. It is not always easy to determine which marriage is milder. Since this is a new code, with many amendments to the general institutes used in each procedure and in each crime, it is reasonable to assume that it will determine which law is nicer, much more, and that in many cases this will lead to new backlogs and backlogs. I can mention 1,500 cases in the case of 15,000 cases, if we look at today's practice, then we can say it's not a small matter, and there will be some more successful programmes needed than Lukende's mark to mitigate the consequences. This is a warning given last time, and I hope that you will remember it clearly on November 1st and not point your finger at those we have warned about.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by colleague Willi Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u16	Thank you very much. It seems that the DeSUS Group will be the only one who will not support the proposal for a penal code when the new vote is taken. While we would be very happy to see the novels, when we improve the old penal code, we do not support this comprehensive reform, which at least some of us think is more about whether the current government or the minister or the ministry can sign in a history book or leave a mark on it than anything else. Otherwise, there probably wouldn't be such a radical rush and radical contradiction. However, we believe that many of the concerns, both the professions and the Council of State, are worthy of further thought, worthy of coordination, and worthy of our concerns, and this is why we will not be among those who actively support this bill's vote, the bill. The experience of the DeSUS Group in many cases shows that when we have concerns, there is also an extension of the route across the veto of the State Council, and very often also through the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And these experiences, which are irrefutable because they are empirical, also give us the benefit of our thinking that we are ever careful and that we do not bow to the will of the stronger and the majority. We estimate that the obvious, in general, is also a matter of value conversion, of ideological conversion, of political verification that this statement is justified. We do not particularly want to participate actively in such value conversions. And we will not allow later in any debates to tell us what some want to do, that those who do not support the law do not have properly developed values or criteria for what should and should not be done. We condemn all reprisals, condemn all that is criminal, condemn all that is not good for other people, society, the country, but that does not mean that we have to accept everything the Ministry has brought to us in the main vehicle. Very often there are things on the trailer that are so slightly attached that it would be good to overlook them and then we have to buy, like in a tied store, the whole. Well, that's what we're up against. We also believe that there is a legitimate perception of the State Council, at least in part, I will not say that there is an increasing number of attempts at exerting repression, authoritarianism, order, discipline and what is at stake here, and we also feel it on our own, and we are not going to tolerate it indefinitely. Therefore, when we feel that this is to be pointed out, it is also true. Of course, we will be in trouble because the majority opinion in the public, when they talk about Fritzl, about Kampushe, about many other terrorist attacks around the world, will say - oh, look at them, but they weren't sharp enough against it. We do not see any empirical research that would indicate how necessary it is to accept this, which is now being proposed to us and not the likely positive results that this code should bring. What else will need to be changed - our way of life, including our way of ruling, managing the country, the social situation and everything else that is actually a bed for what's going on later on in criminal matters. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we believe it is right to protect the rights of workers, to protect social rights, to protect the environment, to protect the sea, and not to know what else is described here, but in such a way that what is bad or which has not yet been sanctioned, but not by making a radical reform that is revaccinating Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by the Member of the winner, Mr Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u18	Good-bye. Thank you for your word. In the SNS Group, we will again decide on the Penal Code by supporting it. It is clear that there is a need for more order in Slovenia, as criminal practice has shown so far that inappropriate criminal sanctions have also resulted in these "tacunaisations", property thefts, business thefts and all, and no one has been sanctioned for this. It's high time something was settled in this area. If one profession says that this is not good, it probably says to a large extent out of fear that even this profession or parts of it would ever sit on a sad bench and have to answer for what they have not done or what they have done wrong, wrong for this or that reason. We expected more in the Slovenian National Party. We expected further sanctions, and I think there will be some more matters to be added to the new penal code. As an example, I can point out that the use of drugs in Slovenia is not a crime; it is a crime everywhere in Europe; it is not a crime for us. And I have a feeling that there is a lot of fear of becoming criminal, because if I'm not mistaken, even in this venerable National Assembly, there's a lot of people who are "on popcorn," as they say, or something like that. Such people are certainly afraid of ever sitting on a sad bench and perhaps losing their term of office because they would be punished with more than six months in prison. The profession, so-called profession, is, of course, against everything, against all of it, and so it was, in fact, against the paedophile registry. However, pedophiles registers are being introduced by all countries in Europe, even more strictly in America. The French even have allowed chemical castration, including the Germans, and so on. But no, we protect the one who commits crimes with us, and we put it all on the shoulders of the taxpayers and the Slovenian people, because they will suffer, they will endure and similar matters, the main thing is that a certain click is protected. And with this new penal code, it will be less, to a certain extent, the end is certainly not yet, but less certainly. For the reasons I mentioned earlier, the Council of State vetoed this law. And one would expect the State Council to veto another law, where it would be much more necessary and significantly better to vote on that law once again, not that. This law, this criminal code is a good thing. I say again, more certain things need to be corrected, not to take into account the opinions of some judges who are now afraid to strike again, although I am sure that no one will even notice this strike, because they will do nothing more and nothing less than they have done so far. That's what this sentence means. One more time: in the Slovenian National Party, we will re-vote for this criminal code. A variety of ideas given by the Slovenian National Party are implemented in this Code, this is good, many are not yet, so that we will probably decide again in the next term on any additions to the new Criminal Code. I think it would make sense, I think it would be good, especially for the protection of Slovenian citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u19	The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Mr Boztjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! The fourth treatment of the Penal Code is before us, so we could call it. I must say that in the Lipa Group we have tried and actively participated in its final form from the very beginning when we received the first proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to amend criminal law. I must also congratulate the Government on the fact that it has implemented in criminal law such a register of pedophiles that we have proposed in the Lipa Group, as well as the extension of the statutes we have proposed in the Lipa Group or whose author is my fellow Member, Barbara Žgajner Tavš. The full regulation of criminal law is, I think, the one that is supposed to lead both members of the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so in the Lipa Group we advocate that the Government will eventually regulate the entire 19th chapter of the Penal Code in an integrated way, as far as sexual violence is concerned. So far, we have managed, or after great hardships, even on the Internal Policy Committee, to arrange a possible article or two where we have raised these penalties. That is why we have also addressed to you, and this is no secret, even if you have not observed it, a letter in which we expect the Ministry to respond to the vote on the Penal Code, to tell us whether the Government intends to amend the law in the entire 19th chapter of the Penal Code and to impose penalties for it, I will say, at least in my opinion and in the opinion of the Lip Group, that the most repudiated crimes are crimes, it is a crime, when it comes to sexual violence against women and children, not to help. Both types of crimes are absolutely discarded and have consequences mainly on the victim. I don't think we can change the unsub here, even if we give him a condition, and I don't know what kind of work. It is true, however, that this criminal code also has its shortcomings to a certain extent. One of my predecessors or my predecessor spoke about how he solved corruption in our country in his regulations. Of course, I cannot agree with myself in this direction. Corruption has already been criminalized. We are not changing anything in this area, but we have given it as an embellishment to which this government could later refer. I don't know what's going to happen when we adopt this code, with names like Friday, businesses like Paloma, I don't know, they won't respond any more, they won't respond any less, nor will it be easier to identify their corrupt activity in connection with the Prime Minister of the Government. It seems to me that the only progress that this criminal code has actually made is, first in chapter 19, to appeal and only to take into account the proposals we made in the Lipa Group and some progress when it comes to the protection of workers. "Kitting" will stop any corruption in this country, and please, if that is true, then believe me, I will be happy to wait for this penal code to be adopted and then we will review Paloma at the Committee on the Economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the SD Group. Excuse me, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u22	Thank you to the president for this correct correction, I'm afraid for a moment. Your Honor! Look, we experienced something in Kranj years ago that we didn't think would happen. In one of the Kranian companies, a new employer, a foreigner, forced young women to sign a contract with which they signed to agree to break their employment relationship if they become pregnant during the period for which they are employed. In this House, we have heard a great deal in the past weeks and months about workers' rights and gender equality, about women's rights, about family efforts, particularly by SD, Zares and LDS. When a new penal code comes to the vote, which for the first time defines it as a crime, where are these people who have been filled with human rights, the protection of women, the protection of those who are entitled to receive them? In the hallway, they were humming, but we could watch them wait or we could get 46 votes or not. What a difference between words and actions. Look, even in the fall we talked about how it is necessary to protect our children in schools from the worst crimes committed, the opposition even proposed its law on this, and in the end it was also established in the framework of the government proposal for a law on financing education and education. However, this provision cannot be fully implemented unless a register of perpetrators of the worst crimes against children is established, giving the legal basis for a new criminal code. And the moment the Penal Code comes to the vote all this opposition from SD, LDS, really and also Lipa gets up and goes out and ignores the adoption of this law. And even in the fall, we listened to the highly resounding words about the persecution of corruption and the fight against economic crime, which in light of the new knowledge now that some in the agencies have been replaced, when their mandate has expired, which boils down to the day that the real image is shown when the institutions started doing their work. But when it comes to voting a law whose key provisions extend corruption to those who benefit materially on the basis of a function or position, when a number of crimes in the field of economic crime are being introduced and are being reintroduced, and what is essential when the time limits for the limitation of criminal offences are being extended, because of the short deadlines that you have reduced in the past periods of the adoption of the Penal Code, we did not need to know what kind of consensus that is being discussed so much. But when this comes to a vote, when he gets up and he goes out, that's the kind of law he ignores. What's this ruse? Now blind, based on these three arguments, it is clear that the blind will not find one law such as this criminal code, which would show so nicely who is who and how great is the difference between words and actions, especially when it comes to the transition troika of the opposition, this is called SD, Really and LDS in this National Assembly. For those who have voted against this law or who will vote or who have or will ignore the adoption of this law will in fact prove that they care little about the protection of employees, that they care little about the grave interference of future young mothers with their fundamental human rights, that they care little about the protection of our youngest children, those who are most in need of protection, that they care little about the effective fight against corruption, that they care little about the effective fight against economic crime, but that they really care only and only about power. This will be the moment we will see the moment of truth for Slovenia. In the SDS, of course, we will be happy to support the new penal code for all these reasons. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Member Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, representatives of the Government. We will also vote against the adoption of the new Penal Code on the part of the Social Democrats Group in the veto of the State Council. So much misunderstanding, so much conscious deception and lies, so much deception and demagogism as was the case with Members and Members, including the Government and its representatives, spoken at the time of the adoption of the new Penal Code, is rarely heard in the National Assembly. It is therefore a shame to convince anyone of the facts that are important in the new criminal code, but it is good to draw attention to some issues. For the first time, a fat lie, I stress, is the claims of colleagues and colleagues that those who oppose the law oppose the introduction of some new crimes that will ensure a more rigorous punishment of pedophiles, which will introduce the possibility of punishing employers who prevent the birth of young women, employees of them, who will specify some corrupt crimes and so on. The truth is that instead of preparing some "additional" clarifications in the special part of the Penal Code, the Government has prepared a completely new criminal code without giving professional reasons for such a need. But our belief is that the adoption of a new penal code requires an agreement. Not in a formal sense, but some greater consistency of views in the criminal justice profession and in the contractors as well as in politicians. To talk about the uniform support of a criminal legal profession is a lie. To talk about the fact that the criminal justice departments of the Ljubljana and Maribor faculties and some recognized deserving professors who object to this law may be a mist to wipe your shoes, dear gentlemen, Members and Members, and to say that they are doing this in order to protect their position, it is offensive. Not for these people. This is offensive to the way this National Assembly behaves. To talk about some warning that a completely new criminal code can cause new backlogs and the unresolved question is not accurate. It is possible that only one who has never seen a court before the work is speaking. It's not just about criminal proceedings. However, a general part of criminal law that implements the principles under which all proceedings are conducted means understanding one way or another and will result in two or more coming to the Supreme Court by means of complaints after a year, two or more of what is the correct understanding. And then you'll be surprised and Mr. Marolt will smile whether there will be additional backlogs in the work of the courts or not. To say that it is right that the Penal Code is adopted in the way you imagined, and that all those we object to are opposed to greater respect for order and legality in society are completely fabricated. Ladies and gentlemen, with the unanimity of the profession, at the warning of the Bar Association, at the warning of the criminal justice departments of the largest courts in Slovenia, when you received a warning that it was a clever number of specific provisions to amend, but not the general part, with the pace that went from hour to hour all through extraordinary meetings, to adopt such a criminal code is irresponsible. It just shows how you, my dear ruling coalition, represent power. The authorities don't need any consideration. The authorities don't need to know. The authorities need a number and you're the number. It's just that the numbers don't build a good state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on the law today within the framework of the Collegiate Sok. [[....]] Comrade Sok! So, we will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 11th item of the agenda or at the latest at 17:00 and 5 minutes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. On the day-to-day basis, this is a full decision on the law on amendments and supplements to the law on redress. I'd like to inform you that we also have an hour's time available this time. The Council of State is held at the 4th extraordinary meeting of 29. 4. He decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, he would require the National Assembly to rule again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers before declaring the law. I also give the text this time to the representative of the State Council for an additional or supplementary explanation of the request. Mr. Mikhael Jenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Honorable representatives of the government! In addition to the written request or veto adopted by the Council of State, I would like to explain very briefly the reasons that led to the adoption of the veto. These reasons, however, are basically that the proposed law opposes Slovenian legislation, such as Article 137 of the Constitution or is enshrined in the Constitution and contravenes the legal order of the European Union. A lawyer is a profession, a service that performs part of its activity in the open market and is, in part, monopolized or subject to a monopoly under the current rules, in particular in the courts or in the courts. In the work in which he carries out his activity in the open market, in that part, according to the Council of State, it is inappropriate that without the participation of the professional association of the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia it is specifically someone, that is, the proposer, the Ministry, introduces the law, and the law provides that the second law will set the price of the service which a lawyer may or must charge for the work done. Here it goes, I stress, for the part being done by the lawyer in the open market. This is said to be no longer a competitive entity which is prescribed the amount of the payment for its work by someone else, while others who carry out such an activity on the market are left to decide for themselves the price of the service. In short, there is no doubt that there is a lack of consistency, an inadequacy of such a solution, as has been pointed out in the Legislative and Legal Service. With regard to the reasons for the adoption of such a law, before which there is now a fourth reading, I would say that the applicant specifically appointed alignment with the legal order of the European Union for the reason for the adoption of the law. No, it is not true that this law is not in line with the European Union's legal order, since the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg has ruled in several cases that such payment, as provided for in the new law, is permissible, but in the event that the applicant, the ministry and later the state prepare it together in cooperation with the professional association, which in a specific case did not happen. The applicant was also led by a new regime of disciplinary procedures and, in explanation of this, stated that the Ombudsman's reports here were so alarming that the recommendations of the National Assembly were such that disciplinary procedures had to be re-organized. However, it is essential to say in principle that these recommendations and reports have come across fertile soils and that disciplinary procedures in the Bar Association have recently been regulated in such a way that there is no backlog. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The request of the Council of State was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the home labour force. I ask the President, Mr Drag Koren, to present the Committee's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u28	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. At its 51st urgent meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers. At the outset, the representative of the Council of State presented the written request of the Council of State that the amendment of the Law on Lawyerry was adopted in contravention of Article 137 of the Constitution on the independence and independence of the profession, in accordance with Article 74 of the Constitution on the Free Economic Initiative and with the competition law of the European Union. With a new law, the State of the State of Justice takes the freedom to conduct disciplinary proceedings, and the State has fully accepted the right, without any cooperation from the state-owned organisation, to determine by its own discretion the value of the service, even though lawyers also carry out their work on the free market. The representative of the Ministry of Justice then said that the need to amend the disciplinary procedure stemmed from the marriage of the Ombudsman and the recommendations of the National Assembly and the comments received by the Ministry of Justice. In the First and Second Level Commissions, however, lawyers still hold a majority of the members, taking into account Article 137 of the Constitution. Regarding the determination of the legal tariff by law, he said that the law would in any event set minimum awards for lawyers, but that, as before, a different agreement between a lawyer and a client would be possible and that in some other Member States of the European Union, legal tariffs would be partially or fully regulated by the legislative or executive branch. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service then said that the reasons for the request were largely the same as the warnings given by this service in its opinion on the bill. The members of the opposition committee then unitedly agreed in the debate with the request of the Council of State, referring to the same positions and arguments invoked by opposition Members in the adoption of the Law on Lawyers. Among other things, it was said that the Slovenian Bar Association, contrary to the position of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the warnings of the Legal and Legal Service under the new law, has no possibility of influencing the pricing of their own services, thereby limiting or abolishing the economic initiative. The members of the coalition's committee said, inter alia, that the Law on Lawyers was an important law that took a major step forward in protecting the interests of the public and the users of services, and that the interests of a group or asset should not prevail over public interest; that the prices of legal services were known in advance, regardless of the length of the procedure and the number of applications submitted; that the legislator provided for in the public interest and not in the interests of a narrow group of people; that greater supervision of the public concerned should be ensured in the conduct of disciplinary proceedings; and that the proposal for a law on legal tariffs provided for only minimum tariffs, but that a different agreement between a party and a lawyer could still be made. After the discussion, the Committee voted on the opinion "The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers is appropriate", but the Committee did not adopt that opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I give the word to the Government's representative as a bill-maker. Mr. Robert Marolt, Secretary of State, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members, distinguished representative of the Council of State! The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers, which you will decide again today, was fully in agreement with all coalition parties and also unanimously adopted by the Government. The amendments to the law are aimed at three important objectives: Firstly, the novelty of the proposed law is a more transparent and efficient disciplinary process that prevents failure of disciplinary procedures within the legal profession. The composition of disciplinary bodies has been changed, disciplinary measures, deadlines, the course of disciplinary proceedings have been set out in more detail and disciplinary infringements have been listed. Secondly, the possibility of adopting a legal tariff with a specific law on legal tariffs is opened. The current regulation of the legal tariff allows lawyers to charge each service separately, which causes, unfortunately, the accumulation of applications and the postponement of hearings and, consequently, the delay in judicial proceedings. For customers, this method of setting legal tariffs is more expensive and the procedure is longer. In addition, the current regime is not sufficiently transparent, since the party does not know in advance at the beginning of the proceedings and cannot know how much it will have to pay the lawyer for a specific trial from the beginning to the legal solution of the case. The essential advantage of amending the law is therefore, compared to the current regulation, that the parties will be aware of the legal tariff at the beginning of the procedure, so that they will be known in advance, meaning greater clarity, transparency and predictability for the party. The legal regime of the legal tariff also stimulates out-of-court dispute resolution and judicial settlement in court proceedings. In particular, it is worth mentioning that in minor disputes, it is said, in lower-value disputes, the legal tariff for citizens and citizens, economic operators, entrepreneurs will be lower than under the current regime. The proposal for a law on legal tariff therefore provides for only one payment for the procedure, one payment for the claim and a special payment for the agreement, irrespective of the number of main proceedings carried out and whatever the number of written applications. And the third objective, the amendment of the Law on Lawyers and the proposal of the Law on Lawyers do not affect in any way the independence and independence of lawyers. As with the current regulation, a different written agreement between a lawyer and a client will always be possible under the proposed new regime. In two judgments, the Court of Justice of the European Communities in Luxembourg has decided that a Member State may adopt a regulatory measure establishing minimum awards for legal services. The European Parliament has also stressed that the mandatory arrangements for fees in some Member States are very important because they provide quality services to citizens and create favourable conditions for confidence-building between customers and those who carry out free professions. The European Parliament takes the view that Member States can accept mandatory fees insofar as the interests of all are taken into account, not only the interests of the housing association, and respect the high moral and ethical standards that apply to lawyers, architects and other free professions entrusted to them by the parties. In the event that the legal tariff is adopted in the form of a law, the criterion of common good is thus justified, since the law is adopted by Parliament, where citizens are represented, so Members are representatives of a wide variety of interests and thus representatives of the common interests of citizens. This is therefore the position of the European Parliament. We believe that the proposed law brings a number of quality changes and additions to our citizens, citizens, craftsmen, economists, and therefore we regret that the State Council is only with 12 state councilors, which is barely 30% of all saints, has decided that the National Assembly will once again decide on the amendment of the law. Dear Members and Members! I suggest that you support the proposed law in re-voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Member Drago Koren.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u32	Good day to the representatives of the Government, the representative of the Council of State, Members and Members of Parliament and our young visitors to the Tribunal of the National Assembly. I wish them a pleasant feeling here in the National Assembly. First of all, in this law, I must say what I have already said before under the Penal Code, that in Novi Slovenija we were even more surprised about this law, that the Council of State decided to vote vetoly on the amendment of this law on legal representation. Here, too, the Commission of the Council of State opposed the fact that the Council of State voted veto. And in New Slovenia, we view the work of this commission as good. Why do we feel in New Slovenia that changes to the law on lawyering are good? In particular, because it brings a lot of things that are good for our citizens and citizens, as well as for entrepreneurs, craftsmen and, last but not least, for companies, especially for all those who need a lawyer in certain matters, that is to say every citizen, sooner or later, encounters a problem in which a lawyer must also ask for help. Here, too, I must say first of all that there is disagreement about the statement made by the representative of the State Council in my explanation that the law opposes the Slovenian legal regime. I'm here wondering if the National Assembly is not the one who's adopting laws that are also taking state regulations somewhere. If that is not the case, then we should still be living in a socialist system and no change would be possible. The second argument was that without the cooperation of lawyers, the Government had proposed a way of determining prices by law. Here, when determining prices and how prices are to be determined, it is quite understandable that it is very difficult for the person concerned and materially to reach an agreement on the price. Here I will touch on this opinion, which is written in the State Council's explanation, that only an economically independent lawyer is independent in his work, and with the amendment of the law adopted, independence breaks below the reasonable limit and represents a legal attempt to subdue legal independence to the executive branch. I agree that speaking of economic independence must be economic independence, but I say that the appropriate economic situation must be guaranteed to all citizens and citizens and that lawyers will only work honestly if they are paid well. Is this the right argument to oppose this law? Is it not right that everyone, especially those workers and workers, when working for a minimum wage, is not equal to lawyers in this case? The practice is - I hope to say that the practice so far has shown that lawyers have also often been guilty of increasing judicial backlogs. I know that lawyers have also been missing many times from the hearings, that they have repeatedly been delayed because of being paid for each case, complaining, even though they know professionally that it is not necessary that the matter will not last, but they have done so only for their own benefit. And not to be unjust, I am convinced that it is as it is in every profession, in every activity, that we have very good lawyers, that we have a little less good, and that we have a lot less reputation for lawyers. Finally, let me say that New Slovenia will once again support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by fellow Member Marjan Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u34	Honourable Vice-President, Secretary of State with co-workers, co-workers, honourable Members, young guests at the gallery, welcome! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we have examined the requirements of the Council of State for re-decision on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Lawyery. I must say that, although I agree with certain arguments, we believe that some of the arguments are unfounded. It is likely that we all agree that certain shortcomings of the Law on Lawyering must be addressed or reorganized. The Ombudsman also warned about the shortcomings in his reports. In the field of disciplinary proceedings, it has been repeatedly stated that a person who enforces a breach of his duty in the exercise of his legal profession must be provided with an effective way of appeal, the very effectiveness of the work of the disciplinary authorities in deciding on the disciplinary responsibility of lawyers, lawyers and trainees should be improved. The National Assembly has already adopted recommendations to the Bar Chamber to tighten the supervision of the work of lawyers and to verify the effectiveness of the authorities of the Chamber, in particular the First Level Commission. As we know, the most controversial proposed amendment to the legal tariff regime is the law. The proposal provides that the legal rate shall be fixed by law which governs only minimum awards to lawyers, while the client and the lawyer may always agree on a different payment, taking into account the complexity of the case and other circumstances. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, it seems important to us that quality legal aid is also available to those with low incomes. The reasons for the legal regulation of the legal tariff are also in the protection of the interests and interests of the parties, which is particularly important in civil disputes where the party who has lost the truth has to reimburse the counterparty for its fair costs. The purpose of this amendment is therefore to ensure that all citizens in need of legal assistance are given equal opportunities for legal protection. While we are not entirely convinced that this change will also really be achieved, we are not in a position to fully agree with the argument that the adoption of this law would rob lawyers of part of their autonomy and independence or that they are subordinated to the executive branch. We believe that the welcome news is also that the lawyer can decide for himself whether he will be included in the list of lawyers representing the parties on official duty, but it is clear that in such cases he must not refuse representation, except for exclusion, rejection or other justified reasons. The applicant argues that the amendment of the Law on Lawyers is further aligned with the requirements of the Directive of the European Union on the field of defence and, of course, also with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which provided that the second paragraph of Article 21 is inconsistent with Article 74 of the Constitution, which provides, inter alia, that an economic initiative is free. It is therefore a matter of regulating the area of advertising of legal services. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we agree with the provision that a lawyer is entitled to inform the public of his activity, provided that the information is real, conscientious and non-binding; protects the commitment to confidentiality and complies with ethical requirements. The Council of State, in its request for re-decision, also states that the new law should restrict economic freedom and income-generating in law. A free economic initiative is linked to a novelty which allows lawyers to carry out legal activities in the form of a limited liability society. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we do not see this as a restriction on the economic initiative, but we believe that such a form of regulation of the exercise of legal activity will also help to increase the international competitiveness of our lawyers, as it is also allowed in other Member States of the European Union to set up a society of limited liability. Despite a number of objections in the Slovenian People's Party's Group in general, we believe that the law adopted is not directed against lawyers, which is often heard in public. We believe that he was prepared to improve legal certainty, improve the effectiveness of lawyers and, as a result, more effective legal procedures, so we will also reconfirm the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group in most cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u35	Thank you very much. However, Comrade Paula Gantar will present the position of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respectable presences, colleagues and colleagues. As you know, in the Group of Members, we have really opposed the adoption of the draft law on legal representation in third reading and, of course, nothing has changed since then. Our position is still such that we oppose this law and, of course, we will not support it today. More than that! In the parliamentary group, we believe and agree with the most important arguments presented by the Council of State concerning the situation of lawyers in Slovenia and the fact that the rule of law and legal certainty in this country is guaranteed to everyone only if we have independent and independent lawyers. However, it is important to know that this law is only one of the laws in the whole palette that he has presented to us in the last four years and has mainly brought through Parliament Minister Šturm. And all of these laws, in one way or another, literally point to point, indent to point, step by step, degrade and extradite an independent legal and judicial system. Once they change the position of judges, then, with other laws, the position of prosecutors and gradually, step by step, they are actually changing the judicial system and only the third branch of the authorities, courts, in fact into an extended term of executive power. We cannot agree with this, and we will always attack and defend different positions. It should be known that if a person has no defence before a court and this defence is based on a lawyer depending on the Minister and the Minister's decisions or the National Assembly, then, of course, one of the foundations of freedom falls. And that's what this is all about. And this freedom doesn't fall at once, but in pieces, in small doses, it descends like plant protection products into the environment, into the country's legal and democratic system. This law is passed when it says that legal services will now be available to a large number of citizens because they will be cheaper. That's not true. Surely this law allows the client and the lawyer to agree on tariffs, and it is clear that good lawyers will agree on higher tariffs if they want them. On the contrary, in the Bar, it is estimated that this law will even increase tariffs and not reduce them. At the same time, in the National Assembly, this law gives us this honorary role so that we can set the prices and rates of legal services. Yeah, what are we, a federal office for prices and tariffs, or what? Are we the National Choir? For God's sake, as Members and Members of Parliament, we should not be allowed to deteriorate into us setting prices and tariffs. We're creating a legal order. We are not part of the executive power and we are not price supervisors and we do not calculate and calculate legal costs and so on. At the same time, in all explanations, all of you repeat in a series that lawyers were now independent in setting tariffs. They weren't. It established a system whereby the bar was established by the Chamber, but it had to obtain the Minister's approval and consent. So these tariffs have been limited so far, and they will no longer, in fact, be restricted by the National Assembly. In any event, the establishment of disciplinary procedures gives rise to the supremacy of other actors in this procedure and not to lawyers, which once again brings together the role and importance of the Bar and Lawyers themselves. In short, with all that is happening, this law is only one segment in the eroding of the judiciary and in the subjugation of the courts of executive power. Let's just be aware, let's stop it! Of course, we will vote against the law again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u37	Thank you very much. My colleague, Willi Rezman, is supposed to present DeSUS's position. I'll ask if you'll let me know sooner. Comrade Yelen, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State and representative of the Council of State. As reasons for the adoption of the veto at the previous meeting, the adopted amendment of the Law on Lawyers states: non-compliance with Article 139 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia on the independence and independence of the legal profession, non-compliance with Article 74 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of freedom of economic initiative, and non-compliance with the competition law of the European Union. In its opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also drew attention to non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but unfortunately its comments in this regard were not taken into account. Members of the DeSUS expressed the same concerns both at the meeting of the home working body and at the national assembly. Although our opinion was not uniform and we voted on the proposal of the novel in our conscience, the reason for this was the different assessments of the intervention of the novel in the constitutional provisions. Thus, we have been given a shared opinion or determination that the legal tariff should be fixed by law, interfering with constitutional standards up to this limit, so that we can talk about the non-compliance of this provision with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Part of the Group concluded that, while such a proposal interferes with the independence and independence of the defence, it is only with financial pay, but not in the independence and independence of the latter as a condition for the quality, efficiency and legal professional protection of the rights and interests of legal entities which are parties to judicial and other legal proceedings. However, the second part of the parliamentary group was the opposite opinion. Undoubtedly, the law on lawyers needs to be recasted, which I believe is what no one is opposed to. However, it is extremely critical to approach the drafting of the text of the novel by incorporating seemingly minor changes that prove to be essential even from a systemic point of view and even have such a weight that in some cases they would not even abstain from constitutional judgement. We strongly oppose this way of adopting legislation in the DeSUS Group. It is true, however, that there are more and more in this way texts of acts which have been incorporated into the legislative procedure. According to our assessment, the novelty of the law on lawyering is a fine example of such conduct. We have in front of us both arguments for supporting the novel as well as arguments against supporting the novel or the reasons for adopting the veto for the law. Following a careful assessment of both species, DeSUS Members decided that the reasons contained in the request for re-decision on this law and the reasons set out in the opinion prevent us from contributing to the amendment of the law on lawyering. We have estimated that the latter arguments have a greater weight and that the text of the novel in certain segments opposes the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Amendment and amendment of the Law on Lawyers The DeSUS Group will not support.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u40	Good day to you all! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party we will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers, again. This is also a matter of fear of certain structures that do not want certain matters to be settled in the field of legal representation. Lawyers are highly privileged caste, which allowed itself to do a lot of things. I'm not talking about all the lawyers, but I'm talking about a certain segment of lawyers who aren't honored by the lawyer's profession. And there are a number of such cases if I only take the last time I got a call from a lady from Gorišnica, who is a new lawyer to return the money he demanded from her without a certificate and in cash. When she said she was ready to accept the money back or when he told her, he said that he would give her only one piece of the sum, instead of the 5,000 euros she gave him, he wanted to give her 3,000 euros, along with signing that she had received all the money. In short, some lawyers act very strangely. The bar protects them, of course, because crows don't turn off their eyes. And these lawyers do bad, bad for the profession, bad for the judicial system, bad for the citizens. And this current law, which we will be deciding about again, of course prevents it. It's not completely prevented, there's still a lot to be done, a lot to be done, a lot to fix, a lot to sort out. But at least something will happen; something, especially that will happen to those lawyers who abuse their job for endless riches, so that their wings will be slightly clipped. Let those who can work and who work be rich. However, that some cut themselves a fat piece of cake just because they're lawyers, and just because "for form" they write forms that they have in their computers anyway, we don't need such lawyers. Also interesting is the solution that lawyers fear. This is that foreign lawyers will also be allowed to defend in the Republic of Slovenia. I think there's going to be a lot of changes around here. Of course, dedicated translators will also serve well, but that is of secondary importance. Certain matters will turn differently, and judgments will be different. It is true that it is necessary, together with lawyers, to regulate the judiciary. The judiciary is still the most privileged caste in Slovenia. After all, the life term they enjoy allows them everything. And that's what we should change. I think it's a direct link between the lawyer and the court. Many times it is also a matter of family ties, so that the wife is a judge, the husband is a lawyer, and at home, consider how the matter will go, whether there will be more to the family budget if the judgment is such or different. In short, we will once again support this law, with the desire that something will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u41	The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by fellow Member Boštjan Zagorac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! A little confused, but I believe and I hope you'll attach yourself to me, we're talking about the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyery. The law speaks of all lawyers, not rich, not foreign, not lawyers who are rich at the expense of citizens and citizens; these lawyers cannot afford citizens and citizens in our country because of the situation that this government has brought about. I believe that some Members can afford such lawyers, even when it comes to indignant cases, Mariborčan Janževec "versus" some MP who kicked someone off the road. But ordinary people, citizens and citizens can't afford it. Let us ask ourselves whether this law really makes it possible to look at the legal tariffs that should follow this law, even though you have proposed them before this law at first reading and the order of affairs is not correct, whether they will help citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to have better legal services. The question that arises to me when I talk about better legal services is - we all know whether or not you have already forgotten that we have passed a law on free legal aid. We know who he's targeting, we know why you took him in. But the Law on Lawyers raises one fundamental question if we are talking about people: whether you are afraid, respected colleagues and colleagues, that given that the register for free legal aid is not mandatory for lawyers. Are you not afraid that this register will become an empty register due to this reduction of legal tariffs or will people receive some flat-rate free assistance? Who's looking at lawyers? What's his purpose? These are people in legal disputes. The point or the desire of any legal dispute is to win. And if we are talking about citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia - I will forget or in the Lipa Group we will forget that it is possible to hire a foreign expert in a particular area. People don't have the money for that. People resort to as cheap legal services as possible, and on the other hand, they are expected to be as quality as possible. And if we look at the comprehensive law on legal services, the law on legal fees and the law on free legal aid, if we look at all these laws completely, they don't allow it. Hand to heart, the laws should be viewed in an integrated manner when proposed by a ministry, not just to come for this booth and, I don't know, to say what this law does. All three marriages together need to be watched and asked what they give people. Two, I'll say, not a terrible thing, but it's already a veto. So we're moving from session to session from veto to veto. Let us ask ourselves a question, something is wrong with those who accept these laws. We're not talking about the other state world anymore. He's got as much work to do as he's never had before. It is more in the National Assembly than it is in the National Council when we look at these laws. The Law on Lawyers does not support or support or pardon, I apologize, once again do not support lawyers, do not support them, do not support them, do not support them, it is supported by part of the coalition with the SNS principle. Let's ask ourselves, you and the SNS are all-knowing in this country. Do people, professions, lawyers, say, users of services know more in this country? Indeed, among these your supporters is also going to say someone who regularly uses them - because of his nature, not because of it, but because you can be a "shoe". People can't "screw" these legal services. Lawyer's room. From the chamber to the chamber, this government changes its opinion: some we need, some we do not need. The ones we need, even though we are in order to abolish all mandatory assembly membership, are the mandatory Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber offering farmers everything they can offer in this country, so we must have it and must be a mandatory membership. Really? We can be honest with ourselves: can we? This law is opposed by two thirds of the users, and you want to get it through the procedure! At the Lipa Group, we will veto our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Kovačič will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! Although I do not know where there is a calculation, how many members of the public support this law or not, it is undeniable that we are considering a law that enforces the interests of lawyers. Because laws are never in the interest of individual groups, but are in the public interest and it is therefore impossible to accept arguments that this law opposes a group of people who are interested in what the law will be, but this is not an argument for whether we have a good or a bad law. The law is in the public interest, and that's merodic. The arguments of the State Council, which voted veto, are quite one-sided arguments, as all these arguments relate to the interests of one group, that is, the groups of lawyers, thus representing the interests of this character. And when these unilateral arguments speak of the destruction of the freedom of lawyers, the destruction of initiative, the free market initiative and so on, they forget that the same free initiative as this law has established has already existed. Notwithstanding the fact that the new law provides for a basic tariff, the lawyer is completely free to agree with his client at any price, there is absolutely nothing limited about it, nor has it been so far. And if an objection is made to the law establishing that the National Assembly sets this basic legal rate, it must be immediately stated that, even now, the lawyer was not able to impose the legal tariff on himself, but that the legal rate was to be applied when the Minister gave his consent to this tariff. And when someone spoke about the fact that the National Assembly is not a federal office of prices and that it is not his task to set tariffs, then it would have to be asked why, in other cases, the National Assembly sets tariffs, why, in other cases, the National Assembly sets prices; these cases are no more than in this mandate, even in previous mandates, no more. For example, here we have court fees, here we have administrative fees, here we have notary tariffs, here we have to fix tolls and so on and so on, and we could also list, a bunch of such cases is, because this is a basic task, one of the basic tasks in a wide range of areas of the National Assembly as well. And the denial that the National Assembly, by setting the bar tariff, breaks the freedom of lawyers, I think it is very attracted to the hair, because the National Assembly is, however, the highest representative of the people - and deny it to him. At the same time, the lawyer has the opportunity to agree with the client at any cost of his service and is not limited in any way. In fact, when the Council of State speaks of some, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, marginal cases, it forgets that this law is a key and most important step, which is to ensure a more economical process wherever lawyers perform their services. And contrary to current regulation, the highest achievement is that services will be known in advance, the price of services will be known in advance, no matter how many applications and how long the process will take. And that is why, of course, we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Council of State gave the legislator another opportunity to reconsider, weigh and reject the approval of the law, which has received a number of professional objections, the substantial warnings of those whose situation is regulated, and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which is obliged to draw attention to the possible constitutional dispute over the proposed solutions in the proposed legislation, as the latter has done. But no. The proposer of these objections and the warnings did not take into account, and they were also heard by most coalition members. What, then, is the basic point of view that a proposaler seeks by such a law? Clearly, its fundamental purpose is to discipline the judiciary and to fully subordinate it to the legislative and even more executive authorities in the country. There is no point in talking about the short-term adoption of this law, since all our objections have been heard on the basis of the fact that such comprehensive, profound and far-reaching consequences of the amendment of the law must not be adopted under a procedure which is intended only for minor and less important changes to the laws. We therefore have before us a law which is disputed from a constitutional point of view, since it does not follow the provision of Article 137 of the Constitution, which provides that legal representation as part of justice is an independent and independent service. Nor does the law follow the 1998 Constitutional Court's decision, which advocates that the independence and independence of the lawyer are also linked to the way in which the legal tariff is fixed. And so far, it has been in force, and this has been a standard that has been self-evident for decades, that, with the consent of the Minister of Justice, the Bar Council has set a bar. And it was with the consent of the Minister that the public interest was guaranteed, which must be exercised in relation to such important service within the judiciary. The Minister's consent also ensured the necessary balance between the independence and independence of the lawyer, who cannot be absolute and totally unlimited, and between the public interest, which follows the appropriateness of the price of legal services and the availability of legal aid or legal representation for a party who urgently needs such a service. In view of the fact that lawyers are also a free profession and that they are finally also a profitable activity, the constitutional provision that an economic initiative is free should also be respected. However, it is important to take into account the fact that this free economic initiative must also not be implemented in the face of public benefit. The applicant did not take all this into account and did not take any of these requirements and criticisms into account. I hope that what we want to say in the Group of Social Democrats is understandable and reasonable. Without an adequate response to the warnings of a constitutional nature and certainly without coordination with the Chamber of Counsel, it is not possible to adopt a proposal from the Ministry of Justice in order to determine the legal rate by the legislative authority in accordance with the law. It is already possible for some Member States of the European Union to have a similar system. However, in these countries, either they do not have a lawyer as defined in the Constitution as is the case with us, or they have, for example, a different role of lawyer in procedural legislation, or the participation of a lawyer is compulsory in all courts and with the use of all legal remedies. Otherwise, we are constantly witnessing the fact that, at the Ministry of Justice, they prefer to copy from German or at least Austrian legislation, or take from each of them what suits them. In the Group, we also oppose applying these amendments to different disciplinary procedures or to a different composition of disciplinary commissions and disciplinary courts. It is not acceptable that these changes, without trying to comply with the Chamber of Counsel, the Minister will force himself, even referring to a report by the former Ombudsman, whose other very serious and concrete warnings the current authority has not taken into account at all. Of course, it's logical for lawyers to have disciplinary violations as well. There is no profession where violations, omissions and negligence would not occur. But at the very least, we should listen to and hear the arguments of the Bar, which claims that it has already eliminated these weaknesses. Of course, it is not a coincidence that in this law too, the Minister of Justice has given himself an additional role in disciplinary proceedings. But it's a constant style exercise that the minister keeps showing off. So, we cannot and certainly will not support this law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the LDS Group. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u48	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! At the Liberal Democracy Club, we do not support the bill and, of course, we agree with the veto as it was, but also for reasons. This marriage is one of those unhappy laws that corrects something. Although, of course, he should be the one to be the one to be the basis. Indeed, there have been a number of procedural violations in the adoption of this law. Marriage is kind of against the constitution. So he might be facing another test. The speedy procedure is, in fact, groundless. The law was supposed to be the basis for the Law on the Bar, but it just happened the other way around. It is said that it is now in some way legitimizing the law, which should actually be in the process after it. He wasn't in line with the public, the professional public. And if you want, it doesn't suit those who would, of course, be involved in different processes. So it doesn't fit the public. I'm not gonna say he doesn't have any positive solutions. It has, of course, a positive solution already in that it removes the limited scope of the limited advertising of lawyers, that it allows the employment of a lawyer or a lawyer to introduce new forms of law enforcement. So, again, a couple of candy bars to bribe those who, in principle, oppose him. But, of course, it's one of those laws that really violates the spaces of freedom in this country. And if anyone thinks that once and for all we came to freedom in 1991 or a little later, it is necessary to say that freedom is an organism that needs to be protected. And it must be protected above all from the wishes of the executive. Minister Dr. Lovro Sturm is already one of those who is living proof of how sensitive freedom is. That it's a living thing and not some fat exhibit that you can put in a corner and do whatever you want. The findings in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as regards the Law on Lawyers and the Law on Lawyers, are, in fact, such that they in some way lie about what the proposer says. The proposed changes - as we have reviewed matters - will encourage legal services. Citizens, citizens, businesses will pay more for legal services than they have paid so far. Of course it's not right for the Minister of Justice not to say that. The restrictions imposed on the legal tariff will apply only to the purposes of judicial proceedings. This means that the party who enforces its claim and gets the truth will have to pay for the lawyer substantially more because the tariff limits the amount to be recovered by the party who loses the truth. The actual effect of this will be that only those who are material enough will be able to afford such representation will be able to initiate judicial proceedings. Another lie is that judicial proceedings will be reduced by changing the legal tariffs. They're not gonna do anything. In civil proceedings, the main problem is not in the legal tariff, but in that the procedural law does not require customers and lawyers to negotiate before they start justice and to seek alternative solutions to the dispute. On average, civil proceedings will still take place at least two main proceedings. An analysis by the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana on the reasons for the duration of criminal proceedings revealed that the conduct of lawyers is not a decisive factor in the duration of these proceedings. And we could say something else. But the main thing is that this government wants to strengthen the power of political power. Above all, the government is in relation to Parliament. That's what we see here. And governments in relation to at least one part of the judiciary, in which case, to the lawyers. And the judges and the prosecutors have already been dealt with in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We will vote on the law in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 11th item of the agenda or on the assumption of 17.05. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representative of the State Council for covering both points, as well as the representatives of the Ministry. And we're moving on to 6. Period of the day - this is a second defensively proposed bill on the Triglav National Park, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. I would like to inform you that we have three hours and 45 minutes of debate available for this item. The draft law was tabled by Mr Školč and Mag. Borut Saiovic. I give the floor to Mr Joseph Školč, the bill's proposer for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u50	Dear Members, honourable Members! At this point one of the most unusual procedures in this National Assembly begins. In fact, it is a month less than four years since the National Assembly suspended the consideration of this Law on the Triglav National Park. During these four years, we would expect many things to happen in view of the storm caused by the previous mandate and in view of the solutions that the amendment to the law at the time brought. But after four years, we can first ask ourselves: Who is the one who is actually serving today? What will result from today’s consideration? The result will be simple: the solutions that were discussed at the time, which were coordinated, which have a large number of amendments, will fall and the path to the adoption of a new law will open. But it must be said that the new law will not be accepted by this Council of State in this reference - and, of course, it is the responsibility of the coalition and it is the responsibility of this Government. My colleague Saiovic and I have taken over the text of the law from the previous mandate at the initiative of previous applicants. At the initiative of the people who prepared this law in the Ministry of the Environment, at the initiative of the people from the Triglav National Park, who also expected solutions. All of these naively believed that Minister Podobnik would do everything to talk to civil society organisations, with park stakeholders, to bring about solutions that would be significantly better than the law that we are going to talk about today and that would change the law where it is necessary. Today, it would make sense to have a parallel discussion. And it would turn out that the poor 90% of the solutions are the same in the law that will follow, as in the one that will fall today. And I ask myself: Why must this law fall today if there is no manoeuvre to adopt the next? While the situation in Triglav National Park and around Triglav National Park is certainly such that it calls for certain changes. There won't be any change. And that's -- I'll say -- the key to today's discussion. It must be said that this law began the journey in the National Assembly on 17.1.2003. That, after the discussions that touched on the solution that part of the settlement near Bohinj Lake would have withdrawn from the park, led to an inquiry referendum being carried out there and that people disagreed with this solution and that this resulted in a replacement of the text of 17.1. with a new text. This new text also went to the general debate. He went to the branch office, more than two months into all congregations, and led to a rather unexpected solution. People in Tolminsk decided to try to enter the park in one part, and this would expand the park area. The previous proponents achieved what showed that it was impossible, without the park being reintroduced, but that the park had expanded. The solution to this is, of course, to the park. We will talk more about this, but unfortunately I miss the Minister here, who has the primary responsibility of remaining this important park without adequate legal protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u51	Thank you. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 29th meeting on 1 October 2003, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 19 May 2008. I shall put to the debate Article 1 and the amendments to Article 1. We have two amendments from SDS and NSI and LDS. I am opening an application for discussion on Article 1 and on both amendments to Article 1. Check-in is on. Mr. Guilty, please! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Before I touch the amendments, maybe a few words about the law itself. I believe that, already in the introduction, the applicants have said that they do not expect this law to be further confirmed. I also think that the debate that was held about four years ago was also focused on the fact that this law is not appropriate. All civil organisations and the professional public at the time objected to this proposal. The proponents also took intent. The Law of that day began to be written because of the problem of Lake Bohinj and certain typical matters that took place in the area at that time. And the law did not fully address the area of the park with the same criteria. There is always a big difference in the adoption of this legislation between the maritime end, the Posač and this western part or part which covers the area of the park within Bohinj. Indeed, the situation on one side and on the other are not so easily comparable. Certain restrictions, which constitute park insurance on the Gorenja side, may mean the extinction of that area in another area. Thus, even in the preparation of the second law, it was for us to point out that there was a real need to pay a lot of attention to these actual situations in the space. It also saddens me that this law, which we are about to reject when this law, which is now under procedure, is so late to be dealt with. I think it will be very difficult, procedurally, to adopt this law in this mandate. I would like to point out, however, that what was mentioned earlier in the preparation of this previous law was not, in fact, consistent with local communities and residents in these areas. Therefore, the further consideration of this law has also come under great strains and these public hearings have actually been very problematic. However, a new law was being resolved all the time to solve the issue of Bohinj. I think it was a key mistake of this marriage. I think that in this new proposal prepared by the Ministry, however, there is an essential, essential, better starting point and concept. The involvement of all interested institutions has also been the subject of the law. The local communities also cooperated. So I think that, regardless of the circumstances, it is actually appropriate to accept it as soon as possible. And also this warning, which has been said that the actual situation in the park is unenviable and that in fact the authorities responsible for the management of the park do not have the appropriate tools, this is true. That is why a new law would be necessary as soon as possible to achieve a cross-border situation from which actual legislation can be respected. Some of the findings that the old law also allows this, I don't think they're appropriate. As far as the amendments and Article 1 are concerned, I believe that basically this law has left out this key part that speaks of the population in this park. I think it was also a big flaw in this marriage in the early stages. I do not think that, with any of the amendments we have before us, we can correct this law to the extent that it contains what such a law is actually meant to bring. Later, through public divisive and public debates, based on the initiatives of local communities and the population, it was actually trying to break into this law of initiatives that would somehow preserve the population in these areas and allow development. But it was actually too late. That is why the first hearing was so negative. Extension of the park to achieve some of the objectives of the nature protection directives. I think they were inappropriate in that process and they caused resistance in local communities. The new law does not provide for the expansion of areas. As I said, the amendments will virtually not be voted on. At least we don't support the law on our part, and that's why the amendments, even though they were filed on our part in 2004. They will be practically rejected and thus the procedure of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u53	Thank you very much. In conjunction with Article 1, a fellow Member, Borut Saiovic, also took part in the debate. Here you go! The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I must say that, unlike the candidates, I will gladly support the amendment to Article 1. For all these statements, which were written at that time, hold true even today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u55	Two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u56	Two amendments, of course, both the first neighbouring parliamentary group and ours. For the goals, desires and needs that we defend with the Law on the Triglav National Park are still the same as they were then. Only paths have changed. Those who broke that law for political reasons at that time are now on the other bank. That's what this is about. Shameful for this coalition to make the only national park so important that we have it waiting in drawers for four years. He wasn't waiting in the drawers. Many presentations were made on the ground, many important steps forward. I must say that I have attended some of them myself, and I support solutions. But I'm surprised that the coalition is now putting something that was already dead on the table right now to wash its hands before the elections. But we did something. I agree with my predecessors that most of the solutions, some even are very essential, which were written down and summarized in 2003, are of course still alive and necessary today and I will support them. The good ones and the little less good ones. Because you have to take a step forward. But there is another fact that such a natural park as a trihead works best and lives if it is left to the locals and those who live there and less to the politicians. Even in the last four years, since we had no marriage or acted in harmony with the old law, nothing has happened in Triglav National Park that we should be ashamed of today. For what we are ashamed of, however, interventions that were contrary to environmental standards could also happen if we did not have this law, but if all those involved were more environmentally responsible. I am, of course, against making a reservation in the future from Triglav National Park, where we would have the main word not to the locals, but weekenders who are only in this Triglav National Park at the end of the week from the state capital or elsewhere. The Triglav National Park Act will be good when the locals are particularly pleased with it. For the Bohinian and the widest part on the other side toward the Bovec, and against Tolmin, and against the Sochi, of course, will live, and will be beautiful, if people live there, and not the weekenders, but the natives. So much for the intro. However, I will support both amendments, as opposed to those that have come to their head in four years and have changed their minds.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u57	Thank you very much. In connection with Article 1 and the two amendments, a colleague of Cyril Testen.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! I have to say, I don't support this law. However, I must say that for me personally, the proposal for a new law is not yet harmonised to this extent in order to have my support. I think a new law in many ways needs to be rectified in its substantive work. As far as Article 1 is concerned, I have the following comments. I think that the law in Article 1 defines very precisely and favourably the relation to the environment and to cultural and natural heritage. It is very poorly defined for the people of Triglav National Park. I think that, above all, the people of the Triglav National Park, particularly those who own land and who live properly in this park, should be able to regulate this relationship to these lands in some way, so that they can continue to live with these land that they own in the park. I think the only way, or one of the few, is to determine in Triglav National Park that landowners are paid their rent. Because they will not have other forms of management, especially in that narrowest part. The intention of this law, which we are considering today, is for the Triglav National Park area to expand to 75% of the common area. At least that is what this amendment, which is written in Article 4, provides. By doing so, landowners and farmers would be severely damaged. I think that such a solution, if adopted, can only mean one thing. Either these people from Triglav National Park are evicted or given adequate compensation to compensate for their loss of income. I think there are also some other things in the new law, and there are some other things in this that interfere with the management of these lands. In particular, I'd like to mention here the question of hunting. The issue of hunting is a very open question, or the question of fishing, and it is not only a problem for Triglav National Park. It is also problematic for the rural areas outside the park, as severe damage is being done on agricultural land as a result of the hunting. In addition, there is a major problem, a major problem can be diseases that, in the case of the nebula - I will say - are difficult to solve or manage. Another major problem, which is also related to the Triglav National Park, is agricultural land, in particular in the Tolmin region, the issue of mountains. The question of the mountains is so problematic today. Farmers or owners of these mountains are also interested in various complementary activities on these mountains, which this law, and also the following, enables and in fact offers very few opportunities. He's just offering those classic operating options like 50 years ago. However, it does not offer any additional opportunities for profit, which would certainly be welcome on these mountains. So I think that if some things don't change substantially, this law and the next one will be hard to support. However, I must say that I am personally disturbed by the different approaches of the succulent, tolminic end and the Bohinj end. Everyone from their own point of view, from their own local interests, defends this law, which is certainly not good. It's not good for the local community either. In particular, lawmakers are adept at exploiting this disorder, and those who support the status envisaged in the Triglav National Park are the most. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new application circuit for Article 1 and two amendments. I'm asking you to sign up. Member Anton Kokalj has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Initially, I must admit that four years ago, the law was certainly an important step towards solving this problem among all the parties concerned. In particular, the law seeks to enforce the national interest, in some way, primarily in the protection of natural and cultural heritage. However, it always becomes or remains in Slovenia in general the question of where the measure is or where we can afford to limit our lives or where we can afford to preserve our cultural and natural heritage and what it means for the local population. Therefore, with regard to Article 1, the definition of the purpose of the law itself seems to me to be extremely important. I think it's pointless to accept the law as one who's on the wallpaper right now. However, it is certainly a good tool to discuss and coordinate all aspects of the regulation of this area with the new law, which - I think - has also managed to acquire some new elements and open several debates at that time. However, it would be necessary to take the local population into account in this introductory article. You agree with me that without the consent of both local communities or all local communities involved here, this law, this law or the law being drawn up by the government, I will not support it. In fact, we have listed here, in my opinion, very generally. Even in this amendment. What is the purpose of national park security? I think that this matter should be further worked out, because the preservation of habitats of plant and animal species is a formulation that can then, through the entire law, have a very difficult impact on the rest of the text and overlook, as has already been said by my colleague Mr Testen, overlooks the local population, which is linked to the daily survival in the park. I therefore propose that, even though this amendment has been proposed by the parliamentary groups to which I belong in this mandate, one of them is simply not supporting amendments and not supporting this law. However, it is taken into account in the further discussion of the law being drawn up by the Government, good solutions that have proved to be harmonised. I also agree that it would be good if we did not use this political discourse in particular now, that this law must now be the basis because it was just proposed four years ago. But to try to concentrate on the newly prepared material, which is - as I said in the beginning - to my mind more fully prepared and taking into account several aspects of regulating this issue, and to try to simplify ourselves as much as possible. Indeed, it would not be good for a new law if, in the end, the matter ended up with just some minimum majority here in Parliament and if the concerns of the local communities were further raised. That's why - as I said - I object to this and to all the other amendments. I also oppose the adoption of this law. However, I am certainly prepared to participate in the substantive debate and to take into account the solutions that are consistent with the highest degree of consensus already in this proposal, which was tabled four years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Školč has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u62	Well, this debate is very instructive and entertaining. Mr Kokalj does not support the amendment tabled by the SDS and NSI. It seems to me, too - I'll say - to some extent flawed. Now, Article 1, we are only talking about these basic purposes of the law. When you look at the basic purposes of the law and the amendment proposed by the LDS to the law that we are considering four years ago, you will see that this is then the text proposed by the Government in the law that is waiting for it in such a text or for that purpose. And you're against it. So if we compare Article 1 - and I will cheer you up with the next - you will see that all the solutions are already here. But I agree that this marriage will fall. I'm talking about no protection. In particular, because the coalition did not show as much will in four years as it had previously been demonstrated from January 2003 until June when the law was withdrawn from the procedure. So in the text that's coming, you have the same goals as in what we're going to reject today. There is no mention of the things spoken of by Comrade Krivec and colleague Testen, who both live in an area where there is one part of the park. However, it is worth noting that the will of the inhabitants was determined in a fully corrective manner four years ago. And that in some local communities they decided to give their consent to enter the park and not to others. Where they decided, the proposer then proposed an extension. Where they objected, there was no extension. The basic proposal was broader. There are also differences between the municipalities of Tolmin, Kobarid and Bovec. In Tolmin and Kobarid, this discussion was easily and without difficulty. There have been complications in the Bovec. That's why there's no extension. In Tolmin, one of the three local communities where these inhabitants live and are the owners of these lands objected and is therefore not listed. Two of them were classified. From this point of view, things have probably changed now. I'm not saying anything. But I'm sure these procedures were correct, long-term. And there's no basis for us to assume that there was something wrong with it. Nowhere was that unanimous, mostly, Mr. Krivec, but it was. In Bovec and Cessoc, however, because of the direction of the congregation at that time, this discussion could not be done in the same way as it was in Tolmin and Kobarid. But these are, as they say, "tampi passate." And that was all taken into account in the solutions to the law. Also, the differences - which were discussed - between the work of Gorenje and the seaside - were that at some point there was a change in the text of the law, that the law actually began to regulate the problems of all in the same way. And the speciality that the first proposal had for the part of the settlements around the lake to be excluded came out of that law. Right after the polling referendum in those places. But as for satisfaction with the solutions, I must say that in these days those people who were dissatisfied with the law at the time and with certain procedures came and said that they were even more dissatisfied with what was happening now. I told them correctly that we cannot provide the necessary majority as formally proposing the law with my colleague Saiovic in order to change the law. Let them turn to where they turned four years ago, to SDS, SLS and NSI and try to ensure this through the Ministry. This debate on the satisfaction of people who have opened civil social initiatives and who have also had very diversified views on this, this debate is still following.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Member Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. When we talk about the Law on Triglav National Park, we should first clear the question of whether we can even talk about the National Park. For the situation of the law that we are adopting today has changed greatly during this time. In particular, the ownership structure within this area has changed. This, of course, requires a completely new approach to how to take this new ownership structure into account when maintaining the status of the national park. In fact, it is the highest level of protection that entails a whole range of consequences, which must also be duly identified so that all appropriate measures can also be implemented at the sites. Behesi and especially because we are talking about the National Park, measures to preserve these natural goods, which are unique only in this area and we do not actually meet them anywhere in Slovenia. Unfortunately, for a moment I will also skip to a government proposal that is obviously waiting for this proposal to be rejected and will then come to the table of the government's proposal. Let me also point out that the government proposal does not solve this problem. And through content is actually further away from the status of the National Park. The fact that about 80% of the area in Triglav National Park is owned by the Roman Catholic Church should also be reflected in the legal texts. Of course, this law that we are considering today has not been written for the conditions that are in force today. Therefore, it does not adequately resolve these relations. I think that if the government has already thought about the new text, it should actually be able to produce a better text that would solve this problem. Unfortunately, however, it will be possible for some areas to happen that we will not actually talk about the national park anymore, but especially about some amusement park that operates within this high mountain massif and the area that has been protected so far as the Triglav National Park. So that even now the law in force should in fact be more respected than it is in practice. So that the basis for the return of all these surfaces, however, was not clear enough, in my opinion, that all these denationalisation procedures could be carried out in a way that now holds 80% of these surfaces at the Roman Catholic Church and the state no longer has the mechanism it had before it could speak of the Triglav National Park. It will probably be necessary to consider whether this will continue to be a different status or whether it will really deepen into all of this and maintain this status. But this is much more difficult than yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Member Pavel Gantar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! True, it is somewhat unusual that we are considering this law today and that in fact many people do not even know what to do and what to do with it. If we truly believed and thought that this was the law on which we would try to conclude the bill - I would say - this long-standing procedure for the adoption of the new Law on the Triglav National Park would be necessary, although it is not necessary for business to meet the Committee on the Environment and Space and again - I would say - to go through a review of the law and try to improve it, correct it, modernise it, however and then hope for success. That wasn't the point. The aim is to respond in some way to the embarrassment caused by the fact that the Government, especially Minister Podobnik, who promised this, has not prepared his own law. According to information from the field, and among naturalists, as well as residents, various actors in this, we even hear rumors that this law, which is supposed to be in preparation somewhere, is even worse than it is not ideal. At least that's my opinion. I believe, above all, that we have no choice but to leave - at least as far as the Group of Ambassadors is concerned - this law ends its path, and that we hope for a better future in the new call of the National Assembly. In particular, I must say that I am surprised that the parliamentary groups that were then in opposition and tabled amendments, for example, to Article 1. I don't think he's as good as they thought he was. Today, they feel quite differently, and suddenly they also oppose their amendments. That's a good - I'd say - fairytale travel. Five minutes ago eight o'clock, a bedtime story, how power itself can change its mind. And here you can read quite accurately. I think the park is diverse and people are diverse and therefore interests are diverse. However, this is not an obstacle so that different security regimes and specific arrangements within the park may not allow for uniform regulation, but also respect for interests. That's why I don't believe in this Bohinj-Tolmin or Bovski conflict. This is more in the heads of certain local politicians. I am not saying that the present, formerly reliable, in Bovsk, and that these problems are solved. In short, I, as far as these amendments are concerned, will not even oppose them. I won't even support them. I simply hope and hope that, in the coming mandate, there will be an opportunity for an acceptable, modern and protective and sustainable law, and I warn, like my colleague Weber, that changes in ownership structures will have to affect certain mechanisms, how to ensure in this amended ownership structure the same level of protection and preservation of certain values as before when most of these land was in public or state ownership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u67	Thank you very much. And the word is from Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u68	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So I also believe that the resurrection from the dead of such a law, which was introduced into the legislative procedure in 2004 and now at the end of this mandate, which is very fast to expire, is essentially unproductive. And I don't support that. Although I do not claim that there is not much to support in this proposed law either. Of course, I also wonder where the Government has been all these four years, and it has not proposed its new Law on the Triglav National Park, although it is and should be aware that it is a pressing issue which, already in that mandate 1996-2000, encouraged a very sharp and broad public debate related to the issue of the Triglav National Park and the fact that the law that is still in force was already old and alive. Well, in these four years, a very useful public debate took place on the ground among the people living in this Triglav National Park. I remember, in particular, those public debates that took place within the Bohinj municipality, because they were actually very serious problems faced by people living, farming and wanting to live and manage without any major restrictions on the account of the Triglav National Park. Therefore, this useful professional debate, which has been held, has certainly not been in vain and should be taken as far as possible into account by the applicant. The fact is that several other things have changed in these four years. If I only remember, say, the activities of the Council of Europe and how many different conventions have been adopted in the last four, six years within the Council of Europe concerning such protection of natural values, the preservation of the original nature by preserving ecosystems, the protection of biodiversity, landscape diversity, the preservation of habitats of plant and animal species. I know that, as I have been following the Council of Europe more directly in my time, I recall at least a few conventions, which have also been signed or even ratified by the Republic of Slovenia, and which also concern this area, which is intended to be protected by the Law on the Triglav National Park. It is therefore necessary to take into account all these changes, as well as the development that is typical in Europe, linked to national parks, and which has actually already established some general standards that Slovenia should certainly respect and try to implement or achieve. It is true that during this period the ownership structure in the Triglav National Park area has changed significantly. And this change in ownership structure does not concern so many people living in this national park. But we've come to a very large owner here, this is the Roman Catholic Church. And given what has already been said today, thinking in this direction is also necessary for these owners, because they cannot manage their property or properties as much as they would like because it is property and management in Triglav National Park, this damage is being compensated by some kind of rent, of course, I wonder how we are going to deal with this issue. Perhaps finding answers to such questions is a challenging task. I'm not going to hand it over. I'm sure you understand what the main point of what I'm saying is. Otherwise, I come from the municipality of Kranjska Gora, which is also part of this Triglav National Park. And on this side, I'd even understand, say, a fellow Saiovic who said a few pizzerias at the expense of the weekenders. But I think it's a kind of older thought. Although we in Kranjska Gora call them jerks, we are not too fond of them. So in a public, public message. But the fact is, these weekenders are also bringing some new quality to these places. That it is often for people who have a particularly positive attitude towards nature and nature conservation, that some of them also choose to stay in these places, and then also part of the income are, of course, dedicated to the development of these places, where they have taken their permanent residence and so on. In short, I think it would suggest that we look more closely at how "users" are, as we would say, those places tend to preserve nature, how much they are willing to do so, and therefore this Law on the Triglav National Park should, in principle, be friendly to all those who are willing to live with these limitations. But of course also in order to contribute to the quality of this Triglav National Park as a whole. In short, I am convinced that there are many serious matters, the need for serious consideration, the changes that have taken place in the 4 years, or even more, which would have meant that they should be respected and that this law should be addressed in a much more comprehensive manner. But I am also concerned about the fact that I hear that the law, which is already in the drawer and is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is significantly worse than what we have before us today. And then, in some ways, the question is, wouldn't it be better to have something that isn't as bad as waiting for another thing that's obviously much worse? But, as a matter of fact. I think that it is necessary to make changes to this law more comprehensively, with considerable consideration, and that it would suggest a whole new start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Member Daniel Krivec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello again! I think that, with some statements or comments from my colleagues, I have somehow been obliged to explain some of the things that I have pointed out in the beginning. I think that the new law that will come after what we are discussing today has been dealt with for quite a long time and has actually taken into account all the new things that have been going on in the last five years. But I would answer all those who say that we are going politics and that we are changing some of our decisions and that we are not even supporting our amendment. I would like to draw attention to the key fact that the new law was somehow being prepared. And that's the one you're all talking about. But you never really thought about it. So this is the population in the park. And respect for this population. And this is clearly stated in the new law in Article 1, which neither our amendment nor the previous law did. And once again, I will point out that the previous law was set in motion because of some individual dilemmas in the space. The key issues, as you mention them, were at the Bohinj end. However, I did not say anything about any conflict between maritime and mountain work or Bohinj and Soča or specifically Bovški, as colleague Školč mentioned. I was talking about differences in development. The focus is on a lower level, as far as development is concerned. Therefore, certain receptions, which may prove necessary in a highly developed mountain area, appear to be an obstacle in the area that still needs some time to develop. Don't make me think. in the new law, paragraph 2 states that the purpose of the law in the area of the national park is also to preserve the population and to enable the appropriate quality of life for the inhabitants or residents. There was no such thing in the previous marriage. And this is a key part of this law and these changes over the last four years. The whole law that we are currently discussing has touched on insurance in all such and different frameworks, natural values, historical sights, habitats and so on. But he didn't talk about the population in this park. And this addition brings this new marriage. I agree, however, that it also sums up the good points that have been included in this law, which we are currently discussing and which amendments we are discussing. Of course, good things that have been prepared by civil initiatives and this group are included in the new park law. I think to say that it's just some kind of twist and politics, I don't think it's in place. Public debates were also held on the new park. Groups, civil initiatives have also been set up in the local area. All congregations and all representatives were involved in the preparation of this law. And to talk about it, colleague Školč, that in the previous law it was harmonised how the areas would spread, that is not true. You have proposed certain areas for enlargement. As compensation for areas that will have to be paid somehow in the Bohinj region for some things to spread. In case you're talking about Bovsk, there was actually a local revolt when a map of the new area appeared, without the local community being informed of anything. Please be more correct in this section. Therefore, I say that there is no change of opinion from our Group of Members. It is only new knowledge and new knowledge, which necessarily includes the population of the park, as you all find. And I don't think we could have kept the park without the people who lived there and actually kept the park. And there is no contradiction between the divine and the coastal ends, as you state.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague of the school.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u72	As a proposaler, I would say that, if practically all questions are raised at the time of Article 1, it is certainly true that in Article 1 of the law we are talking about today, which will fall, at the will of the coalition, so that no law will be passed. This needs to be repeated again. Not a word about the population. Otherwise - I'll say - this marriage talks a lot about it. And he also talks a lot about incentives for people living in the park. Not for those who occasionally live in it, where I can count myself. That is why I know very precisely the limitations that the current regulations have and those that are preparing. Article 15 of the Act, which you will reject today, in fact, has a set of practically all the measures that the inhabitants wanted to take in order to adopt the limits that the park relates to. Other discussions were related to hunters and other topics of strong organisations with their interests in the park. But this bill, which is going to fall today, already has a whole range of these recruitments for people to accept restrictions to make life easier, to have the advantage of carrying out certain activities, to experience exceptions to permits for tourism and other activities. In Article 1, there is a difference between this text, which will fall today, not to list research activities, but to list it in another article and so on. All I'm saying is that I'm saying that you did everything you could to keep nothing from changing in the park and that, I'm going to say, this condition of bad regulations in the park will be maintained. That's the problem. Otherwise, there are no essential differences and we would also be prepared to talk about the new law, and certain things, as we now explain them, might even be more systematically advocated than you are prepared to, if I understand the part of the people who have spoken here. As far as these integration procedures are concerned, they are formal and informal. I was primarily talking about formal procedures. Formal public inclusion procedures, Mr Krivec, as far as the law, which is already in the National Assembly, does not lie in any drawers, is in the procedure. I must also say from my point of view that it is not worse than what we have today in the procedure. He's just as good. Certain solutions are certainly even better. Maybe we don't agree on some nuances. So I'm not saying that what's waiting is, I'm gonna say so bad that I have to accept it. There are some better solutions in there, above all there has been an interesting establishment by Mr Krivec, that what was disputed five years ago is no longer disputed today. To consolidate the position of the public institution of TNP, which takes care of certain things. The position of the TNP has been strengthened in the new law. This is probably good in terms of ensuring the objectives of the law, in view of those comments that we have been hearing all the time, that this is an organization that, I don't know, drinks blood on people. Well, maybe not. But I didn't have these comments at the public institute of TNP. Not even four years ago. While I have heard many of them in these debates that we have had around. Of course, I insist that those procedures that were then taken were properly carried. They're all the records in the National Assembly. You can see them. There can't be a dispute around this. However, there are no record of the public debates that you have just discussed regarding the law that follows. There's no record of that. Because the public debate has not yet begun. Because the decomposition has not yet begun in a formal sense. That various interested people were involved in the solutions, I know this because they consulted me on certain things and probably a large number of people who were involved. But when we talk about it, all you have to do is say that the things you read to this law that you don't have, you don't really read them. Because they're written down. They are not listed in Article 1 but are included in the following. There's only so much from the point of view of the proposers. As far as the discussion in Bovska is concerned, it is irrelevant for this National Assembly. And as for your colleague Gantar's discussion, it's probably about your predecessor. But you'll clear that up between you. However, the fact is that there was, in fact, the only situation where this debate could not be held. And I wasn't mayor of Bovec, not then, not now. If I were, I would be interested in having this debate held.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, allow the Slovenian National Party to propose, that is to say, no matter what the state of this law will be, to rename the law into the Law on the Triglav National Park. Because the word "national" is on the national level. In fact, nationalism is Croatianism and it means at some local level. I think that's a national name. Unfortunately, we have found this in the Slovenian National Party, and I claim this with the facts that I will also prove that in the evaluation - I am talking about Article 1 and the purpose of this Act - we have already handed the content back to the policy instead of taking care of the content. If this law had already been passed, if we had protected our national wealth by means of this law, there would not have been these problems that had been discussed by many interlocutors before me. There would be no change of ownership. It wouldn't have come to that or that. But let's just leave it. In good faith that we all care about the development of the national park and that we do not care what happens to our beauties, I, although superficially, have also reviewed the government law with respect that after that time a lot can change and that many people know more. But in fact it is true, colleagues and colleagues, that the new government proposal contains almost two-thirds of the basics enshrined in this law. You can see, someone who has deepened can also provide you with evidence. That's evidence. Then why not complement this law, which has now been proposed in the procedure of Mr Školč and Mr Sayovic, with those positive things proposed by the Government? At least I think there's a third where the differences are less than two thirds. Therefore, why should this law be applied to the contrary, saying that this law is a good basis for a new government law? Why? I have no other answer, my colleague and colleagues, but because this law was written in 2003 by Mr Dusan Vukko, who was in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. And of course, this is obviously not good for you, and it must be very similar to the law of this authority. But we didn't do anything about it - we're politicizing it. But the people who live in this environment, and all the Slovenians, we don't have any of it. My words have also been confirmed twice by a public debate in the years since 2003, where people living in the area governed by this law have made their statements. They said what they liked, and they said what they didn't like. And I believe that the proposer of this law has taken this conclusion into account. There's so much more. In particular, in Baska Grapa, people even at the referendum decided to live in Triglav National Park. They expressed this by their own volition, which, as far as I know, does not take into account the proposal of the government law. If so, Article 1 speaks of purpose. The essence of the National Park Act is the purpose. The aim is to protect, protect the area of the national park. And then all the articles in this law are substantively correct. The next one's talking about how to protect. So it's about the security regime. The following articles discuss development programmes. The following articles discuss development measures. The following articles discuss public service tasks and the following articles discuss tasks for the manager and the work plan. All these contents are most needed for the creation of the Slovenian Triglav National Park Act. It's dated. I also do not understand the respectable colleagues of the coalition, at least in the Slovenian National Party we were asked and had the opportunity to re- table the amendments we tabled in 2003 and 2004 and whether they should be taken into account or not. And I do not understand that since 19.5., when the amendments were tabled, they have found that those amendments, which they have probably already confirmed that they are being submitted, will not accept their own. And that's a little funny. You could probably know by 9.5 that you will support the new government law, and you could say peacefully, our amendments from the year, specifically the amendment to the 1st article of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which I would be happy to support and support, is with date, 8. 6. 2004 Hell, in three and a half years, we'd have time to withdraw this amendment. But not to put them here today and at the same time say you will vote against them. Now I don't understand. If anyone else understands, let him do whatever he knows and knows. I don't. And I don't think it would be bad. Now what we're saying is this marriage is about to fall. This law will fall, this law will fall. Why the hell should I fall?Oh, my God! Look, 51 amendments have been tabled here. Such an important article, which was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Republic, is important to me because it extends because it accurately defines the purpose of the insurance. And I'll be happy to accept it. And many amendments are proposed by the coalition. And many are good and complement this law, which will eventually be good. Whether it was written by Mr Dusan Vukko or by Mr Školč or by Mr Saiovic. The law is for people. The law is aimed at a national park that we want to protect, which we want to offer to foreigners, Europe, visitors to the third world and which we can truly be proud of. And with it, this law will ensure that our national park is equivalent, like those in distant beauty - as some say - countries in the United States, where they have huge numbers. And I am really sorry and sorry - I speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party - that there have been other values, such as our national park, to politicise the problem. And I can't, no one will convince me that this isn't true, because, although I'm superficial, I'm stressing again, I've reviewed and found that actually two-thirds of the content of this law includes the government. And we could complement that with the government's amendments. Some of them are even involved. I'm proud of that, too, and I'm happy. Besides, I didn't look at the yearbooks. Why not, because the goal will be achieved. The goal will be achieved. We'll have a law to protect our national park. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support all amendments, no matter who is signed under them, who want to benefit from this law. And we will also support the proposal of this law, which is now in the process, and thereby express our goal, our desire and our desire to adopt the Law on the Triglav National Park and thus protect our one of the most beautiful if not the most beautiful parts of the world. That I won't, if I will, but I've kept getting very little involved. Allow me to say that the Slovenian National Party has tabled 8 amendments. All amendments wanted to contribute to the identification of areas, to the protection regime, to the development programme and to the public service tasks. These amendments are well-intentioned. I hope you'll at least read them. I expect that both you and many others will - once again, I say whether it is signed by New Slovenia or by Liberal Democracy, if they are good - we will support them in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u75	Thank you. Before I re-appeal for a debate, I would like to point out that, given that all the debaters are also generally prejudiced by law, by other articles, and that we do not adhere to a debate that has only been opened for Article 1 and amendments to this Article, I propose that we leave this freedom practically to the front. We do not limit it and you can discuss any amendment, any article, in general, on the law that there will be no misunderstandings. For this reason, I am recasting any article and amendment to this Article. Mr. Skull, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u76	Mr President, I understand your inability to follow this debate. But for us as a bill-maker, this proposal of yours is not acceptable. Because we're having a hard time following this jump. Otherwise, in the introduction, if possible, we would present all the additions. Therefore, I would ask you to do as you do, even this time those who go away from the article to other content, to remind you that this will make it easier for us to get through all these things. It will also turn out that many who are discussing do not really know what the content of that article is. I cannot accept this simplification of yours, which would apply only to this law and to this proposer. There is no basis for this in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u77	Well, the basis is in the Rules of Procedure. We could have made a procedural decision like that. But, Mr. Skull, I'll still open every article. But I say that if the debaters so far have not been restricted, I, too, cannot limit myself when I have taken the lead. Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u78	Thank you. I'm calling again. Above all, I was struck by the debate of colleagues who felt that politicisation was now being addressed by this law. However, I would ask the proposer what they had been waiting four years for a second hearing, as this law could be put into procedure earlier. And if they think it's so similar to this new proposal, they'd probably go through it normally. However, it should be borne in mind that the first examination has already shown that it is rather inconsistent. Because, as I pointed out at the outset, it was written for some purpose and later expanded to solve all the problems in the park. I therefore reiterate that the new proposal is better. Much better. In particular, by this title, to include an active population living in this area. That is why I say once again that I will not support our amendment to Article 1, because so many years ago there was no reflection in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u80	With regard to the question of why this is on the agenda only today, you will have to ask others. For those who do not know, I must say that the Ministry of Environment and Space, including the Minister himself, initially asked us to keep this law alive. This offer to sign the law has been given to various Members of Parliament. If I am not mistaken, from Darja Lovtijar, who was formally elected to Kranjska Gora, Mr Klavor, who comes from Tolmin, Mr Testen, who comes from Tolmin, me as an acquaintance of the law, I was chosen in Ljubljana, and Mr Krivec, who comes from Bovec. We were actually waiting for the last time around who would sign the marriage. And it was up to you to decide whether or not to sign. You had some reservations, and you said you'd be joining this signature later. Therefore, it is a considerable delusion to ask how this law is handled. Mr Tsukati also did the right thing when he, like all others who had already been appointed in the previous term, put this law into one of the meetings of the assembly. I forgot which one in that reference. And even then, it was requested that by rejecting the law, eventually rejecting the law, wait for the Ministry of Environment and Space to consider whether this law would be added or worked on a new one. We have been waiting for these explanations for a very long time, and the first initiative to put this law on the agenda was given a bad month ago, and we did not oppose it. This initiative would be adopted at any time. But this debate was delayed by the coalition and on its behalf by the minister. And why this is only here today is a question for your coordination, not for us as a proposalr.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Good-bye! We have now seen mostly procedural debates. I was surprised that colleague Školč said he could not follow the whole issue of the law and all the amendments if they were dealt with at the beginning, but at the same time he declared himself an acquaintance of the law. I am aware that this is the purpose of the law in Article 1. Practically all articles are linked to the purpose of the law. And it is virtually impossible to say that these amendments proposed under Article 1 are not related to the whole content of the law. However, I recall very vividly the debate on the first hearing, which was held in this House of State, and I am aware that that proposal of Mr Školč's law was, of course, pre-eminent at the time. But it was a misjudgment. He had a practical plebiscite rejection in the area of Triglav National Park. And I, my colleague Školč, when he says that in this law, in this first article at least there is no speech in the amendment about the population - this is not true. It is also in the amendment that the activities of the population are concerned. So it's good to look at the proposed amendments and not speak in general and across the thumb. However, I must agree that if a better law is to be prepared, it is necessary to strive for the best solutions. And that I, too, took a closer look at what is the draft law, I believe and believe that this time much more effort has been made to prepare one consistent law that would protect natural values and landscape characteristics while at the same time allowing for settlement and normal life for the population there. And I have to agree with that. Absolutely the main cause and main objective of such a law is to maintain these two values consistently. And since that then law of Mr. Wolf went in a very different direction, it was a disaster here. He was, as I say, plebiscitely rejected in the field and Mr Wolf at the end of that debate, sitting there somewhere, there was no other way that he began to answer the arguments of the debaters even so far that they were under the influence of drugs that they were under the influence of the tablets. I remember this live, this episode. In fact, I warn my colleague Školč that he too will not be driven so far away that, in the absence of arguments and in defence of this, he will also come so far as to get lost as Mr Vukko did. It is true that every next law, a framework of two-thirds, also derives from the framework of the forthcoming laws. It's no big deal. It's no big deal. If a future marriage keeps this skeleton, which is a technical matter, you can't say, and now you've picked it all up. I am aware that it is theoretically possible for the current draft law to change completely. I'm just afraid we're gonna get a freak in the end. However, marriage flaws are not productively supported, produced in the National Assembly. Here you will, fellows, have to admit that that draft was then conceived for some partisan interests, entrepreneurial, lobbyistic. That's when we cleared up what happened, and then you started saving. But these interests are still in the background. Unfortunately, in these days you are proving to be some sort of anti-human coalition. So in the provinces, both in the Penal Code, when unionists and you reject those solutions that benefit the worker. Well, it's an extension of the statutes of limitations, let's say, if that's all I'm saying. And I also have to say here that I don't trust you, because at the time it was impossible to trust because people were torn apart in those two cases, the local population was torn apart. And now you're trying to keep this dead man alive for hidden purposes in the background. But here you are handy usually, with hidden intentions. You're usually very handy here. And, of course, it is important to note that these hidden purposes exist. As a result, I will not support this 2004 attempt to improve this failure any more. If we have here in the material or on the table something that has been done with the express will to achieve this purpose, or the goal of preserving the natural values and landscape characteristics and the survival prospects of the local population. The Triglav National Park without the local population will no longer be a national park. There might be a tycoon park, because the tycoons will have some stops there. And if it is your interest to create a park here, this interest is different from my interest, and I cannot support such an interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor. Mr. Anderlich, you can apply in the next round. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, fellow Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! Of course, I am not living in the area of this park, but given that this issue has already been addressed in the previous mandate, and that I myself have been a member of the Committee on Environment and Space, where we have talked a lot, I would still like to add a few sentences to this debate, which is obviously just a debate because of the debate. First of all, the Law on Triglav National Park, which was introduced by colleague Vukko and we just called him in Parliament "The Wolf Act", would have been adopted if the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art had not resisted it and the local population would not have resisted it. What was then disputed in his law was, of course, mainly the boundaries of the central area of the Triglav Park and the slave zone. This was a typical conflict of interest. Above all, between the capital he wanted, as colleague Jerovšek told me before me, to move his activity to the very edge of the lake. And, of course, on the other hand, how to place in this Triglav National Park activities in the field of agriculture and thus maintain the settlement of this Triglav National Park. It is interesting, however, how some, including our colleagues, show an interest in farming in some areas. One of these may be the coastal area, then Lipice and, of course, Triglav National Park, which is very interesting. A couple of former ministers from the LDS government have set up quite nice economic facilities there. So I guess they're farmers, but those facilities probably serve other purposes. Well, we don't have much interest in farming in the northeastern part of the country. Although the earth is much more, it may be slightly less precipitation, but the conditions for farming are greater. We've been having this opportunity recently, especially with the English. It would be nice if some other Slovenian policy wanted to develop a farm with us as some colleagues did within the Triglav National Park. And if I go to this first article, and even to the amendments. I also think that the Ministry of Environment and Space, as the department responsible for this law, has acted a little clumsyly. For with these adopted amendments, which were tabled and tabled by the Slovenian Coalition in 2004, the SDS and Nova Slovenija are called, this law, which has been thoroughly corrected and in fact brought closer to what we want to create in this area. The first thing is, with these amendments adopted, it would be clear what is the central area of the Triglav National Park and what is what we call a marginal area, as a referendum has also been carried out in this area and so the definition of this is clear. And even in the new proposal, it will not be possible to write otherwise. We also discussed a lot at the time about what is actually allowed in the protection regime, within the framework of the protection regime, what is centrally, what is in the slave sector. And it is also through these amendments, which we have here today in the review of the amendments, in a way that ensures the existence of a park and at the same time a cohabitation of population over various activities concerning agriculture and forestry as such. If you also want to cultivate or deal with wildlings in the park itself. And the third one, of course, which is conditioned by these limitations. This is the share and for which projects the State should allocate its co-financing shares. All of this is written through these amendments. And if all these amendments were adopted at this plenary session, then, of course, since the members would remain open, the ministry could possibly be in the third reading with some additions to repair and would have passed a law on the Triglav National Park. I therefore assess that there is no interest in this law being passed and, of course, this field remains open. And since we're ahead of the election and then we're going to have a good time with this marriage again, we're not going to make it. It's just my personal thought. It is a pity that we have not possibly made a little more effort in this direction so that this law would actually be adopted at the time of the operation of this government coalition. Because the people who live there obviously need it and if we don't have a marriage, then after four or five years of talking, here I hear there's been a change of ownership. How, though, could ownership relationships change? On what grounds? How, though, should ownership relationships affect the acceptance of any other protection in this area? The ownership relationship cannot affect what we call the protection of one of Slovenia's largest parks. This is the Triglav National Park. And even if some, as always, are troubled by the fact that the Roman Catholic Church has received returned certain lands in accordance with denationalisation, these lands will remain at the disposal of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. No one's taking them anywhere. They'll stay there. And the people who use this park, who are going through this park, they're going to go there, they're going to continue to do it the same way they've used it. And it is no problem that we should now substantially change some of the park’s laws or make it work differently with this property than with the rest of the property. I'll get it over with. However, I would like to say that I am surprised if the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Government have already decided to bring a new law into Parliament, that some of you already know how to say that the law is even worse than what we have before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u85	Thank you. Anyone else? I can only see one hand. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman. Of course, the draft new law is already available on the website and you can see what solutions it proposes. These solutions have also been confirmed in the public debate. It means that in a number of parts of this story, he sums up those views that he had, say, a so-called Law of the Wolf four years ago. But today, some people move around with a big start. And that even the government and coalition MPs who then strongly opposed this law are not much in this Chamber today is clear to me. Their amendments then went primarily in the direction of the ban. If we look at their amendment to Article 8, it was forbidden to build new hotels, motels, hotel settlements and so on. Their amendment forbids it. Today's government law is similar. Even for 10 more beds than the Law of the Wolf of that time had predicted. The same is true of the ski resort. At that time, you strongly objected that we did not talk about the Eagle skiers and negotiate any more. Today's government law is, I must say, good and reasonable. The Vogl ski course is clear that development, including the expansion of skis. However, by carefully respecting environmental and environmental standards. That's the right solution. For the Law of the Triglav National Park will be good for those who will see the hosts and those who live there, as co-creators, chief keepers and keepers of natural values. Of course, the unserious ones who do not live in this park would like to see the locals as Indians on the reservation. The wishes of those who would like to see the natives of Bohinj hungry in their chops and shorts. Those who are willing to bend their backs on Saturdays, Sundays or vacations to receive a euro are simply unrealistic, unrealistic and not in the context of the third millennium. The cycle of time simply cannot be reversed in the area of Triglav National Park. It is painful to think that the Bohinjians, instead of cutting in their forests, will live by natural standards from ban and from buying wood elsewhere, or that instead of tractors and modern mechanisms, they will use horses and oxen to harvest wood. And it is simple for me to think that what one of my fellow Members admitted before me was that it was the political fault that we rejected this so-called Wolf Act in its entirety so that, with all these amendments of all parties and all sides, we could make it significantly better, more effective and, above all, more timely. Today, however, at least part of this story seems to have lost four years of our time. It is not the essence of this Law on Triglav National Park and other parks to say and list what it should not do and do. A good marriage will be the one to tell people what to do there so that they can stay there and live and, of course, keep this park going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u87	Thank you. No one else to Article 1? Then we're on our way to Section 4. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. Anybody want to talk about Article 5? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u88	Thank you very much. So, Article 5 is that article that sets out, I'm going to say the territory of the National Park. Two matters need to be said in this regard. We have previously listened to certain debates relating to territory. My colleague Sok also talked about how this marriage began. The second is even more explicit when it comes to trying to remove part of the territory from these protected areas with the initial proposal of the law and then replace it with something else. The truth is, of course, that the law that we are about to decide today does not reenact the park’s areas. The idea that part of the lake settlements would have a different regime was, as I said in the introduction, tested at the referendum and people disagreed. Therefore, we remain in this part of the same regime as those proposing the law. As far as the delusions I have are concerned. I will say, Comrade Jerovšek, about who would build something, it has already been said that the law that waits for consideration allows greater and more extensive construction than that which we will reject today. Bigger and bigger! So, according to him we supported and prepared the ground for, I'll tell these Slovenian rich people, I could assign him to relax that it would be delicious for some rich people with even bigger wallets. But all I'm saying is that these kinds of discussions don't in any way clear up the problems that this law has to solve and, above all, try to bring them to somewhere else carefully. The area of the National Park, as foreseen in the current text, would significantly increase by part of the settlements and parts of the areas of Baska Grapa, to those who know it. From this point of view, there was an establishment that defied what Comrade Jerovšek was saying that everyone was apriorous against doing something. For the inhabitants of certain settlements, at that time, said I not know what they would do today, decided to approach the park. This, I'm going to say, denies all those who say it was some sort of plebiscite rejection. Well, this solution that will be rejected today but not. In this part, the law is sure from the point of view of those who are up to natural protection projects, with the fall of these borders, which will be reduced by Slovenia for something. And that's what the coalition's gonna have to take on. Those who may have made sure of the ratings are now defending it. So when we discuss the limits of law, you need to know that you are rejecting a solution that is in accordance with the human will to which you refer and which is in line with the national interest that we have a larger but not smaller park. And this is a missed opportunity. In the rest, I must say that I am close to thinking of my colleague Sok. For more than three years, we have been giving exactly these messages to both the Government and the Minister of Finance as proponents of the law. You have a law that already has a few formal hearings. You have him at second reading. It is possible to supplement it and it is possible to accept it. All of this, according to colleague Sok, has been systematically rejected. Therefore, the question is indeed raised that, contrary to the objectives announced at the beginning of the mandate, perhaps this coalition is not a different objective. Not for the one she declared to make a better and more transparent law, which she would support. I can see that this guy's got some problems. But that they want to keep things undefined. And there's all sorts of information coming from the field. And how hunting rights are shared. But that, perhaps, could be said by those who have received them and who are also sitting in this hall, probably.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u89	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Gulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u90	There's not much time, but I'm going to ask: Is it true that the public agency of the TNP in this mess and in half the legality of the hunting ground in the Last Trenta hunting family Bovec? This is what Director Maria Markež is supposed to do. You can answer me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u91	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. One more time. Besides, I'm not competent because I don't belong in a hunting ring. However, this final question is absolutely not true, or so far there has been no talk. I don't have that kind of information. And I don't think they're standing. But if we're talking about the limits of the park, I think in the new law, too, they're summed up to a certain extent. The new law introduces three areas. Since it was found that two areas are insufficient to define suitable regimes in Triglav National Park. And the key thing that is regulated in the new law is that all areas where indigenous people live permanently are exempted from the restricted area. I think this is a change that is also crucial to the visa of comparing both proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u93	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. Article 5a is irrelevant. So we move on to Article 8 or 5.b. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment, which we have also signed, sets the limit for an influential area. It is right to say at least something about why so many amendments by the coalition, when we know from the debate that these amendments by the proponents will not be supported and that somehow the law will fall, if I may say so. The law, if adopted, can allow for at least minimal development in this area. Why aren't you aware of that, too, those who are talking about the Triglav National Park today and maybe you weren't even there? If you're making these judgments, then you should know how people live there. The fact is, if this law were to be adopted, the State would also impose financial obligations on this area and should comply with them. It would also ensure minimal development in this area. But that's not gonna happen today. But it's important who's proposing the law. And according to this puffy principle, the laws of this National Assembly are also adopted. If the proposal is not correct, it is the proposal of the law of the Roma into the basket. Why should it not, once in this National Assembly, be considered to listen to the content as well as to the needs of the inhabitants, citizens, citizens who live, and to adopt laws according to their needs, as well as their wishes? This law is one of such laws that would enable people to live a better life. Someone mentioned Baska Grapa earlier. The bazaar is half empty. You know. And those Primors who spoke today about the fact that this marriage is not necessary, to put it mildly, can be ashamed of them. To talk about how other parts of Slovenia are not agricultural and that tourism will develop and that this law is written on the skin of those who would like to invest there. I thank God that someone wants to invest in this place in the first place, and it is right to leave the expertise to set the conditions for these investment conditions. We do have landscape architects. We actually have naturalists. We also have civil initiatives. We also have municipal councils presided over by mayors and must monitor legality. A study of environmental impacts should also be made by law before every major investment. At least that's what it's been like so far. I don't know why you're sticking your eyes to this question and kicking your head in the sand like an ostrich. The Triglav National Park needs development. And if we treat what is national in this stepmotherly way, according to the system that is national, we know that it is also bad and decaying, then we will leave nothing to our craftsmen. That's what we're used to doing anyway. And in this National Assembly, more and more people are babbling and less and less wise to discuss. Some of us before me, too, have just mastered this babbling. And I would say that if we asked the living people there, this law would certainly want to be in force. And it looks like they won't, because you've labeled him populist and you're saying that if he does, it's just a collection of political points, which, of course, is not true. Responsibility will be forgotten again the moment this marriage falls. And tomorrow you're going to turn the board around and maybe even say 100% different than you are today. Some of you, of course, like to do it every day. And that's not a problem for you, and I believe you'll succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u95	Thank you. Anyone else? No, no, no. Then I move on to Article 8. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u96	Thank you very much. As far as the debate is concerned, my forerunner is a typical example of this wisdom in this House. Especially when you have to spit out anything you can. There are only two things I would like to say to this Article, which speaks of the protection regime in the national park, perhaps also as a suggestion to the drafters of this new proposal. We talked a lot about wild and hunting in the area of the Triglav National Park in the previous proposal, the first one. I myself agree with those who advocate that hunting in this area and planning with wild game must be regulated and planned to some extent. The park’s area is not so large a whole that it can be left to the natural laws of the park as they are. Because, above all, this wildling living in the park does not have enough natural enemies in this area. That is why natural enemies are savages in the area of our Triglav National Park, especially some diseases. These diseases in the park always occur when the population of wild game is too large. And we know cases where if the gammas multiply too much, then, say, they get sick for the disease of gamma blindness to get killed by the garages. In the field of rabies, we know that foxes, when too much is tolerated by this disease and so on. So in the new law, this area will have to be regulated. It would not be unusual for any hunting family to get what was once a question and some concession to take care of the park for the populations of individual wild game species. It will probably be necessary to find some form of agreement with the expert here. And such legal provisions will write down that will in some way allow for these interventions. I know that hunters, if they don't interfere with the population itself, and in some winter conditions, are taking care of the survival of this savage on the other hand. Just like in the forests of Kočevje, where I could see a bear feeder myself on a visit, where hunters showed how well they care for bears, and also said they have 400 such feeding grounds. On the other hand, we know what the problems are if the Ministry of Environment and Space decides to issue a decision to remove some of these nomadic bears from this environment. So this is where we have to find some form of balance. If you don't, then nature will do it itself. However, you can imagine the suffering of a certain animal being killed if it suffers from a gary disease or, say, rabies and similar diseases that spread among these animals due to an excessive population. And there's something else I'd like to say. I don't remember what my colleague Saiovic said earlier, that any of us in our previous term would object to the Voglo skiing. He just made that up. This was not the case, and it would also be pointless to foresee something like this under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Friend has reached out to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President! I was mentioned. Mr. Sok says I criticize everything in a row. But, Mr. Sok, I did advocate our joint amendment, you know. And that's another proof that you're babbling and you don't know what anyone's talking about. You're not paying attention. If we were, we would see that I did not criticise this amendment, but that I have asked this National Assembly to also support the motions you have proposed for this amendment. Of course that's not gonna happen. And there's something else I'd like to say. What have you been talking about? Bears? Do they belong to you in this amendment? I don't see them here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Skull, as a proposalant.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u100	Thank you very much. So this Article 8 speaks of protective regimes. Here it seems to me that if we compare the solutions that come with this, the concept of the law that will be voted on today is better and clearer. Especially because it clearly lists what the prohibitions are. However, everything else is deemed to be permitted in the same way as regulations do in the Republic of Slovenia. This so-called better solution that's coming is problematic here. It is problematic at the point where it says that certain things are prohibited, and then the prognosis is "especially". And there's this difference that allows for manipulation, which is particularly bad for those who operate in the park area in one way or another. And to those who feel that the future marriage is more pleasant to the inhabitants. The law we're talking about today has 40 tax bans and no more. The law that's coming has 54 tax bans and the possibility of red tape making up another one. In this regard, pay attention to this debate, especially when you also adopt the next law. The law, as it is written today, is perfectly clear in its prohibitions. But the one who's coming has more bans, but he's got a chance to build another one. And in this regard, it is one of the drawbacks of a solution that can then lead to the sinning of life for various investors. It is also true to remind Mr Jerovška and others, who have attracted their time to various external park guards, that new exceptions allow for the construction of larger hotel and overnight facilities. So we've lost 4 years to get to solutions that will allow for not smaller but larger construction in those parts of the park where this is allowed. This is one of those scams that I think have turned your back on you, including environmentalists and other civil society associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I've heard from you one last time. Let me reiterate that the amendment to Article 8 was made by the Slovenian National Party. The essence of this is in point 1, in brackets, when we say that in the area of the national park is any damage or change in the natural balance of the animal or plant world, non-living nature and landscape [[...]] [[End warning sign]] , prohibited and specified in 40 points, by not holding much of the above. [[...]] Of course, a natural balance also means caring for the health and balance of animals and plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u103	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Guilty, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u104	Maybe just an explanation. Talking about larger facilities, accommodations, we are only talking about changing the number from 40 to 50, which is the only thing that makes sense from an economic point. Most investors investing in some accommodations are talking about the third protection area, where settlements in some development make it impossible to receive guests brought by buses, and therefore this change in the preparation of this law at the initiative of local communities has actually been included. But this isn't about a big increase. Just an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u105	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u106	Thank you very much. My predecessor, Mr Slavko Sok, also spoke of the expansion of the Vogla ski resort. "The memory has a relatively short range, but I would say my people are feeding evidence." The amendment to Article 22 under which it was signed states in point 22 that it is prohibited to build new skis and spread existing ones. This was the 2004 amendment of the SDS and New Slovenia Group. However, as your Government then implemented the Vukko Law and how it is being upgraded by your Government today, it is clear from article 19a, where it says: "To build new skis and expand existing ones, except in Voglu and in settlement areas where new skis are allowed to be built, a cable system which does not require concessions in accordance with the rules on cable devices." Simply, solutions go today and have gone back in the right direction, of course not to build a reservation there, but a ski resort, in accordance with environmental standards, we continue to develop. In the sense of that human river, it could be "wolf sattin and goat whole."
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u107	Thank you. We're moving on to Section 9. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Article 10 [[No, no, ……]] Article 12 [[No, no, ……]] Article 13(3) Article 14(4) Article 15(3) Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Article 15 is one of those articles which in fact allowed for the possibility of bridging all the misunderstandings that arose between the population and the various peoples who implemented the park security regulations. Article 15 has been constructed, I'll say, some additional stimulation for those people living in the park. And Article 15 was also the one that allowed the debate that under certain conditions it was possible to plan also life and development in the park and that public resources could also be sought for this life and for this development in the park. That was, I'll say, the key was not to loosen the park's security regimes, but to take the park's population as an opportunity to live properly in it. In this regard, it was also, I think, one of those keys that builds the concept of a new law or people's consent to certain regimes in the new law. In particular, I have come to say that it is necessary to offer something to the people who live there, because they have a lot of restrictions on "was alive" before this mandate, that the debate on this with the Government at the time was thorough, that the Ministry of Finance and other ministries have given in to the construction of differences and that this is one of the major achievements. What grieves me is that it is not possible to draw from this title, and it is not possible to draw them because you have done everything to make the law, not so, not otherwise, not adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u110	As far as incentives are concerned, as is the case in Article 15, as is the case with Article 18, people in the park, because they live there, certain restrictions, should also be given certain incentives and incentives. I am pleased that what was rejected at the time and is an innovative "congregation" of Mr Vukko's former fellow Member and also of the Liberal Democracy and Government Club is now very much the following. For projects and investments of the local community in the area of the national park directly related to the protection or development of the park in the area of the national park and financed in accordance with the rules on the financing of municipalities, local communities in the national park shall be provided with additional co-financing resources in the national budget, irrespective of other provisions governing the financing of municipalities, up to 80% of the estimated value of the project or investment. If we adopt such an amendment in this or the following law, then the development of those congregations that are mostly in the Triglav National Park and the survival of the locals is ensured in every way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u111	Thank you. Article 16? [[No, no, ……]] Article 17? [[Not at all.]] Article 18? [[No, no, ……]] Article 19? Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the last time, I'm going to sign up for the word, and I'm going to tell you about everything and the marriage. In this debate, it has been shown that all the key elements necessary for the Triglav National Park to have a new legal regime have already been laid down that the articles are adequately open and would have been supplemented if the coalition had the right to amend so that the law would have entered into force by the end of this month. No one is here by content, unless we remember the controversy at Article 1, where I think we have made it quite clear that these objectives have also been written in other articles, opposed to substantive solutions. I note that no one has opposed the substantive solutions and that we have open supplements and that we have seen through the comparison of articles that the lawmakers have essentially relied on the framework of the law that they are going to try and probably refuse today. What was all this for? Why was all this necessary? That's a question the government should be asking. There's no minister here today. For a law for which every time he was visited in places where the boundaries touch the park, where he promised to do everything he could to get this law adopted, he did not have time to come here today. The government representatives were silent, I suppose they hardly opposed these solutions, because to some extent they also participated in writing this text. But today we will execute the removal of this law only because the first proposal was sent to the procedure in January 2003 by Mr Vukko. Mr. Wolf, as you know, he is no longer a member of this National Assembly today. But you're afraid of his shadow to deal with the solutions that are in this marriage, but it's clairvoyant, sad and ridiculous. This shows, I will say, a great lack of confidence, a great lack of knowledge, because if we had a minimum of confidence, we would listen to those who have been involved in preparing these solutions in a variety of ways, with little will, we could take all those solutions that you think the Government has prepared them well. Surely there would be conflicts around this, and in this case there would certainly be opposition in the good part. But no, you will reject this so that you will not accept anything so that people will not be able to draw on these stimulations, in order to continue to argue about the various permits for various interventions in the park, so that there is no clear protection. So that different people, as they call it, could be hunted in mud. This is the subject of all these discussions. I am, of course, ending this, until the evening or until the vote, you have the opportunity to take advantage of what Mr Sok was thinking out loud, because if anyone else thinks about it, it is a priori rejected, but Mr Sok has offered you today an opportunity to get to law. It's up to you to take advantage of it or to refuse it. And it is also up to you to explain to people in Gorenjska and Posoča why you were not prepared to do anything to develop places in the park. You had your chance, you pushed her away.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Just an explanation, because there's really a lot of nonsense here today, and it's only right to answer that. In fact, this debate is also a kind of replica of my speaker when he said that we are afraid of Mr Wolf's shadow, that I don't know who we are afraid of. I would like to tell him that it is not about supporting me or being against the Wolf or supporting whether they were against the LDS proposal. Come on, don't even think about it. But things are different. We passed this law four years ago. Maybe it'll be five years now. The ones you will remember then happened to the people. At that time, people in Triglav National Park resisted such solutions that the author suggested that they did not agree that this was in conflict with their way of life, with their expectations, with their development. And you've also had your profession. Mr Školč, who was in Parliament at the time, should hardly have happened to forget about it. It's probably not that short of a brain. Everything that we can say has happened is somehow in conflict with the life and way of life in that work, which is why the law was not adopted. You probably had almost a two-thirds majority in the previous term and could adopt this law. Don't pretend now that we're afraid of the shadow, I don't know who. We're not afraid of any shadow. And this law and the content of this law will have to be addressed there by people who did not agree with the contents at the time. Can't someone who lives outside the park impose solutions on people who live there, who face problems and problems every day, but we can adopt a law to make them even more difficult. People have to agree there and then the appropriate content needs to be brought into law and the legal framework that will be followed. I will not vote for any content to cause even greater problems to those living in the Triglav National Park than they already have. That's why I'm not voting for this content, not because I'm afraid of any shadow. Because I wouldn't want anyone else to vote for this at the expense of the area where I live, but I'm against or the people who live next door to me. That's why I won't do such nonsense to others. And that's why I won't support that kind of content either. That's all it's about, not a long shadow, please! Let us be serious and learn once again that in Parliament we have to take the solutions that are for the lives that are for people living in an area that we are talking about and that we are talking about. That's all this is about. That's why I'm going against that content, because it would make people's lives impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u115	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Article 20. Anyone want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Article 21? [[No, no, ……]] Article 23? [[No, no, ……]] Chapter 8, penal provisions? [[Nobody.]] Article 31? [[No, no, ……]] Article 32a? [[No, no, ……]] Article 33? [[No, no, ……]] Article 34? [[No, no, ……]] Article 34a? [[No, no, ……]] Article 34b? [[No, no, ……]] Article 34c? [[No, no, ……]] Article 34? [[No, no, ……]] To annexes 1, 2 and 3? [[Nobody.]] This concludes the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. POINT OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE AVENTIC EXPOSURE OF THE FIRST PARAGRAPH 113. Member of the Act on Business Dimensions. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was tabled by a group of Members with Mr Bojan Kontic, the first-signed. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers for further explanation. Mr. Contic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The main purpose of the proposal's proponents for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 113(1) of the Labour Relations Act is to remove the ambiguity and thus the possibilities for different interpretations of Article 113. Our aim, therefore, is to ensure effective protection of workers' representatives in companies against the cancellation of the employment contract for the purpose of performing their functions. In this regard, let me draw attention only to two concrete and media-specific cases in practice when the professional presidents of the Council of Workers received the termination of the employment contract, specifically in Paloma and Lama, the dekana, due to their activities in this function. Both cases demonstrate, that much has also been written in various media and that the procedures that have taken place there have been monitored, that the legal formulation of the provisions of Article 113(1) of the Labour Relations Act has been overly infallible. The logic followed by a strict grammatical interpretation of the contested decision, which normally has an absolute advantage over all other possible interpretations, is the following: "It is not possible for a working representative to cancel a contract of employment without the consent of the Council of Workers or of the Union, only if it acts in accordance with the law..." and so on. However, if the employer can also be totally unfounded to a working representative, there is no clear breach of the law or collective agreement or contract of employment, then no need to sanction such a solution to the prior consent of the Council of Workers or Trade Union. This is, of course, totally irrelevant, as to the actual cause or reason for failure, even though in essence it is a manifestly vengeful, chicanosic or other unacceptable intention of the employer to act against the working representative. To this end, there is always a violation of the law, collective bargaining or employment contracts as an excuse for the employer to do what it is intended to do. Article 113 defines special legal protection against termination. So we're talking about special legal protection. However, from the Government's point of view, it can be understood that he is sending us to a chapter defining the general termination of the employment contract. So where it's arranged for all employees. We are talking about special protection as defined in Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act. If it were as the Government said, this 113th article would not be needed at all. The signatories to the proposal, however, believe that a more precise interpretation of Article 113, as stated in the proposal, is a safeguard for workers' representatives. In doing so, we would like to point out that trade unions and holy workers need to be understood in a positive role in the legal protection of workers' representatives. I ask who, if not them, along with those who represent them, are fatally dependent on the functioning of an economic society. Therefore, fear of quasi protects its representatives. As soon as we close the Institute of Compulsory Pre-Agreement for the termination of the Employment Contract for any reason, the Special Protection of Workers’ Representatives within the meaning of Article 1 of the International Labour Organization Convention No 135 on Protection and Relief for Workers’ Representatives is actually over. This article states: "Workers' representatives in the company must be effectively protected against any procedure that would be harmful to them, where forgiveness also includes for their status or activities as workers' representatives, or membership in the union or participation in trade union activities, if they comply with applicable laws, collective agreements or other jointly agreed agreements." It is supplemented by a provision of Article 6 which provides that the application of this Convention may be ensured either by national laws or regulations, either by collective agreements or otherwise in accordance with State practice. The provision cited is therefore not directly applicable, but it imposes on the signatory countries the obligation to properly regulate the effective protection of workers' representatives at national level. This means that it is not easy enough to rewrite from the context the part of its conduct that has been removed if they comply with applicable laws, collective agreements or other agreements agreed upon jointly and put it in a completely different context to national law, as in our case, but it should provide for concrete measures to protect working representatives from possible sycanosing practices, not just before the courts, but before the company. In our case, however, such a measure may be only a compulsory prior consent of the Council of Workers [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] or unions. [[...]] The proposal concludes that there is no need for an authentic explanation. This is also indicated by the decision of the home working body, which expects the Government to prepare an appropriate solution to protect working representatives from failure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u117	Thank you. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was addressed by the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee and the disabled. I give the floor to the President, Mr Brenčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I very much welcome the Secretary of State, the Ministry of Labour and all of you. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities considered the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 113(1) of the Law on Working Relations at its 37th regular meeting on 6 May. The committee was attended by representatives of the candidates with the first-signed Bojan Kontic, representatives of the Government and a representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, Mrs Andrej Kurent. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect. The legislative and legal service points out that the instrument of authentic interpretation cannot be intended to amend or supplement the law, but can only relate to the interpretation of the legal provisions which have proved unclear in practice in the context of the content in question. With regard to the wording of the authentic interpretation itself, however, it points out that the proposal under consideration for an authentic interpretation extends the clear text of the applicable law, thus exceeding the scope of the authentic interpretation instruments. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also stressed that their opinion also made it clear from the Government's opinion that they were based not only on grammar but also on historical interpretation. In their view, the provision in question is sufficiently clear and the proposal for an authentic interpretation implies an extension of the provision to which the legislative procedure is intended. The representative of the Government also made her arguments in the opinion of the Government, which she will certainly present to the esteemed assembly also after me, so I will not introduce it. After the introductory part, the Committee came to a discussion on whether the presented authentic interpretation was necessary. Some discussers considered that practice proves that labour representatives are not adequately protected and therefore an authentic explanation is necessary. Others agreed with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government, while stressing the necessity of amending legislation in this area. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 150 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee took a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee considers that the authentic interpretations of Article 113(1) of the Labour Relations Act are not necessary." The Committee has adopted that proposal and therefore proposes to the National Assembly that it should not adopt, pursuant to Article 151 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 113(1) of the Labour Relations Act. Thank you very much. Following the conclusion of this Decision, the Committee also addressed to the Government a proposal for a decision, as it follows from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, as well as from the opinion of the Government, that an appropriate proposal for amendments to the Labour Relations Act should be drawn up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u119	Thank you. Ms Romana Tomc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, will give the opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has considered a proposal from the Group of Members and Members to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act. With regard to the understanding of the provisions of this Article, the Government notes in its position that the regulation of the provisions under consideration is clear and provides for the special protection of workers' representatives and trade unions by requiring the prior consent of the Council of Workers and Trade Unions in all cases of termination when the working representative acts in accordance with the law, collective agreement and contract of employment. This is mainly about legitimate business reasons on the employer's part. If a worker's representative or trade union representative does not comply with the law, collective agreement and employment contract, for example, that there is a breach of contractual obligations or other obligations in the labour relationship, it is not particularly protected against the termination of the employment contract, as it is a matter of fault on the part of the worker and therefore there is no need for the consent of the authority or the trade union. This interpretation of the current regime is also based on the case law of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The principle of relative special protection against dismissal for workers in the Republic of Slovenia is comparable to the international conventions and the European Social Charter and with the solutions of other European countries. In the light of the above, it is assessed that there is no need for an authentic interpretation to contribute to clarifying the regime. At the same time, we agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the proposed text of an authentic interpretation changes the content of a clear legislative provision. Allow me to give a further opinion on the proposal of the parental committee. With regard to the proposal submitted by the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee to the Government and with regard to the initiative of the leaders of the coalition groups of Members, we explain that an initiative has already been put in place to assess the constitutionality of the protection regime against the resignation of working representatives on the Law on the participation of workers in management. In view of this, we believe that it is appropriate to wait for a constitutional assessment of the disputed regime at this time and then to take appropriate action if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u121	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Brenčič has the floor to speak on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u122	Thank you very much again for your words, Mr President. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we support the purpose, or objective, that the applicants wish to achieve by adopting an authentic interpretation of Article 113(1) of the Labour Relations Act, which is to ensure the special protection of workers' representatives in companies in particular with regard to the issue of the termination of the employment contract for the purpose of performing their functions and, consequently, the issue of the special protection of workers' representatives from all possible abuse of the employer in order to establish a state on the basis of which the termination of the employment contract is possible or attainable for them. With good intentions in the Slovenian People's Party's Group on these issues, which are now emerging in practice, we have been alerted by the adoption of the amendment to the Labour Relations Act and by the adoption of the law on the participation of workers in the management of businesses. However, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that this objective should be achieved in the same way as the opinion of the Legislative Service of the National Assembly, which is a change in the formal record of Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act and not by interpreting the existing Article 113, which is clearly, definitively and cannot be understood on this basis, as follows from its record. If the National Assembly adopts such a designed authentic explanation as this proposal suggests, this would, in our understanding, be a completely new approach to the use of the Institute of Authentic Interpretation, which would put in our legal order, in our opinion, a rather negative practice. On this basis, the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will support the proposal for a decision submitted to the National Assembly by its mother's working body for its decision, which is that the proposal for an authentic interpretation is not accepted. As we say, we support the need to amend Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act in accordance with the purpose of the proposal for an authentic interpretation, which today is the subject of today's plenary session. We certainly believe that this correction in the Labour Relations Act is necessary for the benefit and good of the atmosphere in a number of companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr Srečko Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The interest in capital in Slovenia is very great. The facts are known when workers’ representatives forgive the prejudices that have occurred. Let them be union confidants or representatives of the workers' councils. The case law in Slovenia shows that these situations in this area, as regards the protection of the interests of workers, are very poor. If we look only at Lama, the Deans or Palomo you will see, there has been an eccentric violation of labour legislation. And the employers just got excited about what's written in the amended Labour Relations Act. Court mills are waterless and grinding slowly or not grinding at all. And it is suspended, disrupting, of course, a liquid unionist or a representative of the workers' council, because we know that by law the workers' council also has the right to co-manage, we have peace before it for several years, and so the savages can then move on in the sense of wild 'admission', because the disruptive factors are removed. But this government, the Slovenian Government does not care, although these unions in some way also put it in the role of government, otherwise in the interest of finding an alternative to Drnovšk's government, but the fact is that this government is also owed to these unions something from this title. We know that the government doesn't care much. I also do not understand why, in essence, a well-intentioned authentic explanation would not have been adopted, because, in my opinion, it is essential that, because of what I have said, the employer must, in cases where a worker's representative has a manifest violation of the law, collective agreement or contract of employment, for the termination of the contract of employment, as well as for the service of the notice of regular cancellation, obtain the prior mandatory consent of that body in which that union trustee, which is otherwise protected by law, is a member. Indeed, the law itself regulates today and gives the employer the opportunity to terminate the worker in three cases: if it grossly violates the provisions of the contract, if he commits any other serious infringement, or if it fails to meet the expected planned and prescribed results, the employer may terminate it. But if only this was the reason for the resignation, for the service of resignation to unionists, then probably we wouldn't have this authentic explanation in the National Assembly today. It's just that the case law shows, as it were, otherwise. And respectable colleagues, I don't know why we don't see these things in an open, transparent way, if we're watching television. There you can see what was going on, like, in Paloma, which was also the subject of discussion on the working body. There we could see and hear the testimony of the Labour Director who was talking about how he was being bullied. How was he bullied? You know, no one, and this government and the judiciary didn't care why it was actually put at the front door of the company. And it is this authentic explanation that allows or prevents the Government, employers, from treating the workers so pigly. I believe it's disturbing for that manager who wants to own a part of the company in an illegal way if he has someone looking at him. And so much more disturbing if this employee's representative is also protected, legally protected person. Of course it's disturbing. And the most beautiful in these cases is, according to practice, to invent a reason and to give it away. Then let justice be done in court. And when he gets this lawsuit, everything that was planned will be done. And this is the practice of Slovenia. This is the kind of shit that modern-day managers, who are now rich in billions of profits and buying whole companies, are obviously dealing with. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I do not see sufficient reason for the European Social Charter to adequately protect these workers' representatives, as you state in your explanation that it is not necessary that this compulsory interpretation is not necessary. If we respected the rule of law in Slovenia, as our neighbouring countries respected it, and if we also applied the legal judgments, as the neighbouring countries respected them, then we could say that we live in a state of law. Who is the most violator of laws and who owes the most to citizens and citizens? Just the state. In fact, this country, which is talking about obedience, which in fact gives birth to new laws that force citizens and citizens to obey, is not really consistent. The largest debtor is the State and the most competent of the judgments obtained in a court of law has a State in non-execution. In this respect, it has also pointed out to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that it is an inadequate protection of legal representatives of workers. If we accept this mandatory interpretation today, which is not the best way, in my deep conviction, to falsify or add a certain text to the law, but for some cases it is necessary, and in this case it is certainly necessary, then we will remove this dilemma. We will impose on the state the obligation not only to worry about creating the so-called new added value and, consequently, also to profit in the budget, which goes back to the workers who make this profit. We know that poverty is relatively high, and the state boasts that I do not know what surplus, then the state will be able to say that it has done something. And the Government certainly is not proud to say in its proposal that this supplement or this authentic explanation to this article is not necessary. It's an emergency, and it's an emergency! If we don't accept it today, we'll allow new violations. And these violations happen every day. And it is a fact that intimidation also increases and loses legal, legitimate representation by workers organised within trade unions and labour councils, while others who want rights and want to represent their working environment. And so it usually remains for those workers who are being played in one way or another, just the judicial protection that you like to justify yourself to. Yeah, because before marriage, we're all the same, because you have the opportunity to go to court and sue this company. Tell me one of the employees who was able to obtain his rights in the lawsuit was paid and that the employer finally apologized to him. I know this case. We therefore welcome this proposal in the Slovenian National Party, and we will also support this proposal, or we will not vote as decided by the home labour body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Lipa Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u126	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honors are here! That an authentic explanation is necessary, there is also confusion by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, by the coalition. Here you convince us that the article is clear enough that we don't need any authentic explanation. On the other hand, on the Committee, the entire coalition adopts one additional decision, which reads: "The Labour Committee, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons proposes to the Government that it prepares as soon as possible a draft amendment to Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act, which will in any case provide special protection to workers' representatives." Can you please explain to me what you're doing? You are telling us that Article 113 is clear that workers are more than too protected or sufficiently clearly protected under Article 113, and you are finally proposing such an article. Are you confused or do you want to impress someone? If you want to impress people, believe me, you've been doing bad for three and a half years, and you won't be able to fix it in one month. But if you want to make fun of us taking something that looks like a coalition, and then, because of me, we can accept such a dictatorship if you want it, and in the end, we'll write a lot that says it's yours. But it won't save anything. The authentic interpretation of Article 113, according to our belief, of the Lip Group, was mainly due to the last two really specific cases where the provision of Article 113 was not only abused, but also interpreted incorrectly where it should be interpreted as clearly to you today and to the Legislative and Legal Service in the National Assembly. Firstly, this is a specific case of Paloma, which you all know very well. There, a representative of the Council of Workers, legitimately elected by employees, drew attention to the pigs that are happening in this company. But he went well in accordance with the law, first informed the supervisory board, which he failed to comply with. Then he warned the board that for some strange reasons she didn't take it into account. Then he turned to the owners of state property, i.e. mine, yours, my children, your children, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and the owner did not take it into account. Finally, respected colleagues and colleagues, he turned to you or to us. But of all of us, I think the three opposition parties have taken it into account, even those who want to talk a lot about Paloma today are not. I know that an initiative has come from colleagues from SD, I know that an initiative has come from colleagues from Zares, and I know that quite a few initiatives have come from the Lip Group to resolve this problem. Finally, as a fruit of the opposition's pressure - and thank God that the opposition in this case carried out such pressure - we were able to convince the owner of our property, your property, the property of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that something was really wrong there and that the two visible members of New Slovenia simply want to make this company their little cradle, including the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia. And only then, after all this bullying, which lasted about eight months when a person did not know whether he could come to work or not, and referring to the 113th article, which was so clear to all of you, so clearly that you did not respond to his requests for help, on the basis of all these pressures and interpretations of this article, which were also needed by some legal experts, did this worker remain employed in the company, although he was not allowed to work for some time. Even legal experts have had to give an opinion and you are today explaining that an authentic interpretation of this Article is not necessary. And there's no need to look at it politically. But it is also necessary to look at life by someone who has one injustice in the company. In the Lip Group of Members, we will support the proposal for an authentic explanation, which says that we will oppose the decision of the parent working body. But as for the second conclusion, I would like to remind you once again, you did so because of your impression. But as I've already said, for three and a half years you've been doing bad things, believe me, one conclusion is not going to make it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u127	Thank you. Ms Alenka Jeraj will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! The authentic interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 113 of the Act on Working Relations in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group is not necessary. The majority of Members on the home working body have confirmed both the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that there is no need to adopt authentic explanations for a number of reasons. The authentic interpretation of the law allows the legislator to legally determine the content of the legal provision which he has already adopted, so that it is in practice clear what this requires for implementation. Moreover, the authentic interpretation cannot be intended to amend or supplement the law. Since the adoption and amendment of the Labour Relations Act, it has been established that the purpose of this provision has always been to provide for the relative protection of workers' representatives, both for trade unionists and other worked representatives, in order to enable these representatives to carry out their functions without delay, which is also based on international acts, as they have also committed themselves, in the revised European Social Charter, to ensure the effective exercise of the right of workers' representatives to manage their functions to those representatives in the company, to ensure effective protection against acts that would render them less favourable, including dismissal based on their position or functioning as employees' representatives in the company. Compared to the legal text of the provision in question, it follows that it is, in fact, expanding, as it has found and very detailed and illustratively explained by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion. It is widespread in the case of the introduction of an agreement on a case-by-case basis with the employer's apparent view to the worker's representative of the violation of the law, the collective agreement and the contract of employment, and there is also agreement to be given at the time of the notification before the regular termination of the employment for false reasons. In doing so, I would point out once again that the Labour Relations Act has improved in many areas, including in the area of ensuring the effective protection of workers' representatives in companies before the termination of the employment contract for the performance of their functions. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we assess that the dictatorship, "if it acts in accordance with the law, collective agreement and contract of employment", is not disputed. For these reasons, we will not support the authentic interpretation of Article 113(1) of the Labour Relations Act in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u129	Thank you. Ma'am mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, representatives of the Government! In this mandate, we have stressed the importance of labour co-ordination in several laws and have been confronted with the misunderstanding of some coalition Members and Members on the importance of labour co-ordination. Recent cases of exceptional terminations of employment or employment contracts to representatives or to councils of workers or trade unions have led us to submit a proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act. This is not the only law in which the protection of working representatives should be considered. The 67th Article of the Law on the participation of workers in management could also be considered. In Article 113, the sentence in paragraph 1 is contested "if it acts in accordance with the law, collective agreement and contract of employment" which is, however, literally prescribed in Article 1 of the International Labour Organization Convention No. 135 on protection and facilitation for workers' representatives. However, it is placed in a completely different context so that, in the light of its grammatical interpretation of the law, the entire provision of Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act loses its full meaning and purpose and becomes completely irrelevant in this respect. If we refer to it, and some employers do so, they can simply bypass the obligation to obtain prior consent from the Council of Workers or Trade Union. In fact, prior agreement is intended to constitute a safeguard which is the essence of the whole provision and which should prevent employers from being dissatisfied with working representatives without any hindrance to cancel employment contracts on the basis of the principle that the employer is solely on his own judgment of the action and the court. The protection of workers' representatives from the termination of the employment contract, as the legal provision under consideration is supposed to provide, is in fact only apparent and in practice almost entirely ineffective, meaning that the provision in that grammatical interpretation and application is completely irrelevant to this end. This, of course, is not legally acceptable, for under Roman law general principles, the law does not prescribe anything without a reason, or in one day or another, the law always intends to do what is reasonable. The fact is that, legally speaking, no law in force can ever be useless or meaningless. In a specific case, this can only be provided by the National Assembly with an appropriate authentic explanation which will ensure practical coordination in accordance with the provisions at issue in accordance with its original safeguard purpose. In this context, it is therefore necessary to provide such an interpretation of the provisions of Article 113(1) of the Labour Code, whereby the employer cannot, in his own view, assess when it is necessary to apply any legal action against the working representative in the sense of dismissal to obtain prior consent from the Council of Workers or Trade Union and when not, but must obtain such prior consent for each intended exceptional and regular waiver. Adequately interpreting the provisions of Article 113(1) of the Labour Relations Act would therefore be possible to achieve such application of this provision in practice, in order to preserve its fundamental meaning and purpose while maintaining a balanced respect for the interests of employers and employees on a specific issue. Although both this provision and Article 67 of the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, which is weak, will be substantively far from what the Convention of the International Labour Organization requires, Article 135, regulate the labour protection of workers' representatives, the necessary necessary improvements in the form of amendments and the completion of the law in the future. The practice is now literally calling for the addition of these provisions, because, of course, forgiving working representatives is not the only form of many tangible phenomena of their bullying, suffering or any other modern, unacceptable act. At least the same problem is their unhindered redistribution and classification among overworkers. Therefore, concrete examples suggest that an authentic explanation must be adopted, but if the voting majority in the National Assembly wins again, it is hoped that at least the decision taken for the Government will make it clear enough that what we now declare to be sufficiently clear protection of the working representatives, however, is not appropriate. Well, some hope remains in the decision or judgement of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u131	Havela. Mr Aleš Gulič will present the position of the Liberal Democracy Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u132	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we do not object to the content of the proposal for an authentic interpretation, but we estimate that it is necessary to take into account the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, that the proposal for an authentic interpretation should be circulated in a clear text of the applicable law and thus in some way exceed the scope of the authentic interpretation instrument. We will support the conclusion that an authentic explanation is not necessary, but note that the text tabled is very important and very, with many calls, a warning of unacceptable practice that proves that the working representatives are not adequately protected. We therefore supported the decision on the Committee calling on the Government to prepare a proposal to amend this famous Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act as soon as possible, which will then only be able to provide specific protection to workers' representatives in any case. In fact, this one in the country apparently had a pattern of behavior, total ignorance of what the courts accept, or some authority. This pattern, of course, started with the Government, even in the leadership of the National Assembly, after all, there are no rules, no laws, anything can be adopted or rejected, everything can be taken into account or disregarded, and it is clear that employers are also interpreting laws that they are supposed to limit in their relationship with employees. Of course, cancellations in Paloma and Lama, which were the reason for what the applicant then decided with a request for an authentic explanation. In practice, employers can easily circumvent the obligation to obtain prior consent from the Council of Workers or Trade Union and simply say that these are harmful phenomena. And then, of course, they treat it in a different way. Of course, the employer is now making a choice on his own whether to assess when it is necessary to obtain the prior consent of the Council of Workers or Trade Union, in terms of dismissal, through the application of any legal action against the working representative. So it is up to you to decide for yourself, and it is clear how to decide, so this Article 113 needs to be amended. It is even more important that the institutions of power - whether legislative or enforceable or judicial - take into account, of course, the fact that Slovenia wants to be and wants to remain a rule of law. This is, of course, a moral question that I can ask from this place to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u133	Thank you. Mag. Janez Drobnič will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u134	Hello, well-respected colleagues and colleagues. The New Slovenia Group is of the view that this article adequately regulates the protection of union trustees from forgiveness. Indeed, we must be aware that such provisions must limit any interference that is directed for objective reasons rather than subjective. If we accept a dictatorship that also takes into account subjective reasons, then of course this would not be right. This would mean that a union confidant could afford anything, and this provision would protect him from forgiveness, that is to say from the serious indecisive acts that he would also commit, and on the other hand this would constitute an absolute right to protection against forgiveness. We believe that the European Social Charter, or this law, which has this dictatorship, takes sufficient account of the European Social Charter and provides the right framework for action, for democratic and legal action. Indeed, in Novi Slovenija we are also aware of or are not familiar with the beauty of the supposed protection against forgiveness and similar things that have happened in recent years in relation to national interest. The kind of proposals that are supposed to protect workers, people, people show exactly the opposite at the final stage. Finally, it was also difficult to amend the Law on the Employment of Persons with Disabilities, where the provision on protection against forgiveness had been withdrawn, by putting in place other measures to promote employment. Employers have proved to be much more inclined to employ disabled people and to prevent abuse - on the one hand or on the other. Indeed, every employer who is is well aware that it is good to have a good relationship with a worker - as I do not know the employer, a good employer who forgives good workers. I don't know them. For he would do this in his own way, and it would be no better than for the employer to have arranged relations with a union confidant and why he should deal with it and go to some kind of war. So, whether workers and employers are on the same shore, we have to ask ourselves eventually. If you ask good employers, those who have good businesses, perspectives, developmental ones, they will confirm that. However, those who have run the company have also engaged in relations with workers' representatives. Employers need workers for their objectives. Workers need a demanding global competition for their employers or businesses, well-standing companies, development-oriented companies that can be established. Employers need good workers who improve, and workers need reinforcements to be able to establish themselves on the labour market and compete. This is a mutual relationship, and so they are employers and workers on the same shore. Such provisions and the harsh provisions stem from a conflict, assuming that they are employers and workers, i.e. a union representative, in a permanent conflict relationship. Since that's supposed to happen, that's what happens. And that's the phenomenon. This provision, which is sufficient to protect trade unions. And this is the best measure or protection against the forgiveness of workers who have done well and the best measure to keep the company well is to treat workers well. Protection against objective reasons is sufficient, but protection against subjective intentional and similar acts is not necessary. The European Social Charter lives to a sufficient extent in the existing law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u135	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to a debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation. Mr. Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Today, after more than a year of re-examination, I have been given the feeling that this 13th article is not in this labour relationship law to protect workers' representatives or workers, but that - obviously one of you - is interpreting to protect the employer, the owner from the workers. Therefore, again, as I have already said at the outset, I must say that this proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act is precisely due to this particular experience at this time of the year and a half in practice, whether you have recognised it or not, but not only to the two cases of Lame and Paloma, there are still many cases that are not publicly mentioned. Especially in recent years, when workers are becoming mere objects of wage relations and in certain economic sectors, it is mainly intensive economic sectors, in a totally subordinate position to capital; no one can effectively and effectively protect them, and they cannot defend themselves. Today, at the 1st item of the agenda, we have also heard that we need to support the new penal code because it will protect workers from abuse of employers. What a hoax! What a fraud on the part of those who use this argument! Because I am particularly interested in this, and it is likely that these criminal proceedings will occur when the employer bullys the worker, I ask you who will win this battle: either the employer, the owner of the entire corporation of the legal structure, and, on the other hand, the worker with any advice or advice from the union council and the workers' council, with what legal assistance. The practice so far proves that they will lose in advance in these stories of workers. And this knowing relationship also stems from the Government's explanation of the position on the proposal, which is the day that it considers that there is a fear that the union or the labour council will also protect a worker whose failure to work relationship is justified. I'm not going to comment, I'm going to abstain, I'm going to stay with my first thesis that this 113th article is aimed primarily at workers, not employers. And here the government, with this explanation, has fallen into its own trap. Secondly, the provisions of Article 113 are not fully clear and authentic and that the legal regime is also in line with the international conventions and the European Social Charter. Then, in a way, this decision, which was adopted by the Committee, is also repealed. If it is in accordance with the European Social Charter, then why should we correct this Article 113? However, perhaps the interpretation of this Article 113 in practice is not such, except for exceptions, even in the area of trade unionists - if you have the right client card. If you are a unionist or an employee on Slovenian Railways and you have a SDS membership card, you have a business car, you have a salary, such as Members and Ministers in Government. This is a privilege for employees in Paloma or Lama or some SCT or somewhere else they don't have. However, I warned myself twice that we would come to this. The first time we passed a company law and introduced a single system, and the second time I proposed it, and then the government proposal for a law on the participation of workers in governance. And practice has confirmed to all those who were then warned that Article 113, as it is now, is controversial and does not protect enough workers. Therefore, I propose that, at least until you have changed and amended the law, this authentic interpretation is in place and that at least during this period we protect workers' representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u138	Thank you very much. On this request for an authentic interpretation of Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act, I would like to say that I am very much in favour of union confidants being protected from any bullying by union workers. However, I must say that, unfortunately, we also have cases where not all union representatives are authentic workers' representatives, but they are often longer than some parties' deadlines, especially union officials. In fact, I also experienced bullying and declaring technological overtures because I resisted wild property in the company, although I was a technical director. The bullying was carried out by members of the party who today proposes an authentic interpretation of this article. And even in this proposal, I see hypocrisy and a lot of hypocrisy. In fact, there's a lot of bullying, it happens a lot. The bullying of workers is extremely common. Trade unionists, many of them, are extremely heartwarming against this and for the protection of workers' rights. But only union leaders are not all on the workers' side. They know how to make a hallo effect, they know how to engage politically, they know how to perform politically. However, when the question of a small worker is repeatedly raised, or when the interest of an employer, who is also politically connected, is, say, with one of these customers coming from the former system, revived. Look, today you will have the opportunity to defend workers' rights by voting on the penal code. Do you normally think that union leaders who sit in the State Council and are all in line with you, mostly, all vote against the criminal code that enforces the criminal code - and criminalizes provisions against bullying workers? What union leaders are they that support bullying workers who delay the adoption of laws protecting workers and protecting women, workers from harassment? This should be the classic function of union leaders sitting in the State Council, but you have convinced them that the penal code also extends out-of-date hands and I don't know what it is, and that it is not in the interests of employers and modern tycoons who come from your species again. This initiative is just as much a function of safeguarding workers' rights as it was your eternal commitment to national interests. And we know where the national interests have now landed, in which mailboxes. Your representative said [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u139	Mr. Jerovšek, hold on. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u140	Yeah, I'm hanging in there, I'm hanging in there. Protecting workers is an important matter. The lady said earlier that they had consistently stressed the importance of labour co-ordination in the SD. I didn't see you ever stand up for the labor self-governance of a mailbox. You never said that these post office workers had to manage and co-owner, but it was a billion and a half million euros. How many of these are the workers running this mailbox? For this reason, once again, I agree that - like the Law-Legal - this is a completely manoeuvre. Manevere shows "take a thief" right out of those kinds where they support odd jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u141	Thank you. Replica has Mr. Kumer. Because his debate was about [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Kumer, please, you want a replica. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u142	Mr. President. Not for the first time before this term do you not for the last time protect the interests of all Members and Members and their rights. Your fellow Member has attacked not only Members of Parliament and Members of the Social Democrats, but also insulted union representatives. The law does not know the term authentic union representatives and authentic unions, but it does know representative unions and represent the interests of workers. And our desire for an authentic explanation of Article 113 is precisely the one that speaks of those who advocate for the rights of workers and are not protected, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u143	Mrs. Potrata, you continue with the controversy in the same style: we would, they would, so, you so, they would. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u144	I'm talking about authentic union representatives who aren't. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u145	Please. [[...]] You don't have a word. You have taken the floor, for Mr. Squeakle now has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Let me first comment that when I heard my colleague Jerovský say some words, I first checked if he said them seriously. Mr Jerovšek, I ask you kindly not to express all your frustrations when you get the word. However, with regard to the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 113(1) of the Labour Relations Act, I would like to say that, of course, I support it, that the pressure on workers' representatives has been too high in recent times for various reasons. Here, colleague Kontic presented at least two cases and I think that all Members must be aware that: yes, there is a great conflict between work and capital in Slovenia. That is why we need legislation, legislation that will undoubtedly protect those who have the right and the task of protecting the interest of work. Unfortunately, in this mandate, the Government did not realise how it encouraged capital to strengthen this conflict. Unfortunately, she did not realize this, and even with the discussion that we have just heard, of course, you will not eliminate this fellow Jerovšek. I think that a mandatory explanation is necessary, but of course I would suggest that all those who are behind these or those who are behind this company or those who are living behind it stop doing so. In this mandate, the most responsible is the ruling coalition of which you are the representative. And to my colleague Jerovšek in the end, that's all. You are also president of the Committee on Foreign Policy and your words go far into the world, and what you have said is not good for you and the Slovenian National Assembly, but only for Slovenian foreign policy, but not for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u148	Mr President, I think that my colleague Brickle and others who are trying to silence me in the fight for labour rights, which I have always advocated, and even the workers where I have been, have a memory of this, and I have been, after all, bullied by the fact that they are trying to silence me, but that I, as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, should not take on such low-cost engagements as an ordinary person. This is coming from you, Mr. Squeakle. And on and on, because I should be quiet, and I couldn't see the ordinary worker, the ordinary farmer, the ordinary workers and the suffering mothers. I'm not the same as you were when you were secretary of state, and you've only seen these powerful men with whom you've worked well. Unfortunately, I haven't changed in the twelve years of my term, and the other, as soon as you get close to a position, many change. And I agree only with Mr Squill that there is a great conflict between work and capital in Slovenia. We are witnessing this every day, and I hope you will help resolve this conflict, but I just don't see it happening. I can't see. You mean, like, if we go to the media level, that if they shut down some of the houses, the responsible editor, they're all going together as employers' representatives, that's a step in that direction? I don't think so! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr. Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. Just for a little while. Since I was on the committee when a decision was made on this authentic interpretation, I would like only to say that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service has also been such that the law is clear enough and that, in fact, with such an authentic explanation as the initiator has proposed, the law itself is being extended. That is, if you want to do what you stand for, then it is necessary in the National Assembly to amend this law and then protect the workers' trustees through it, if you think they need to be protected even more than they already have. I think that Mrs Drobnic, in her debate, has very substantively and thoroughly explained to everyone what it is, however, that objective protection is needed, but not subjective, in the way that some of you propose, and of course you are trying to gain some political points, because this could actually mean that the working representative could do what he would like. In fact, these days it is no longer the case that workers and trade unions or trade unions and employers should be in a conflicted relationship. Why would that be necessary?Oh, my God! Today, both of them must cooperate if they want to be successful if they want to have a job to survive on this global market. And he must be satisfied with both the employee and the employer. In your discussions, some of you come from this permanent conflict - the Czech Republic, the unions, the workers we are not getting paid and, on the other hand, capitalists, as sometimes when you promoted the socialist system, we were also shown and taught in schools. Now, if there were a reason two things - one, you say in Paloma, one in Lama - then I must say that, as far as I've been monitoring what I can monitor through the media about Paloma, that's where their working representative went back to work. So this 113th article is enough to take it back. However, I must also say that this working representative of yours, to all of us in Parliament, who sent certain data on the functioning of Paloma - he sent us financial results; he wrote a lot of things. Finally, Paloma’s audit showed that there was nothing wrong with it. The CSI didn't find out anything was wrong either. We do have an opinion from Mr Kos, which I do not know what could help me with, because it is only an opinion, but those who were called to make professional supervision have found that there was no irregularity. Now let's ask ourselves, what did this Mr Korotai do for this Paloma on behalf of the workers? This is my subjective assessment - I think nothing - because it helped in public against Paloma, against the administration, against the company as such to arouse a negative opinion. I don't think he did anything good with it. Unconsciously, he must have said many things, but if this Paloma is as it is, why should I in the multitude of various articles offered on the shelf today by various manufacturers of these items choose one another, and let them have what they have among themselves. Doesn't that work for people? I think it's working. With this, I hope, he did not do any service to the workers in this company, but he did help this company, which is in trouble anyway, not because of the administration, but for years because it cannot be restructured. Because I hear there's one in eight maintenance people out there, too many employees. And of course, the union will always have the last word there and their representatives can then do whatever they want against the government that wants to change anything. And you say that through the authentic interpretation of such people, much more must be protected. I don't think so. If someone intentionally, I don't know, causes harm to an undertaking, then he is subjectively responsible for such matters, but it is necessary to protect him objectively and to interpret the Legal and Legal Service that Article 113 is sufficiently clear and that it is not necessary to disseminate it, Mr Kumer, with an authentic explanation. But if you do, you will find again that you will be in power in the autumn, and then you will be able to enact such laws in this country, that you will be able to protect everything in this country, that you will give everything you want, as well as the 100,000 jobs you have promised, you will be able to do so in the past, and you will be able to do so in the next four years. Slovenia will be very grateful to you and I will praise you very much when you do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u152	Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u153	Wait a minute, Mr. Friend. [[...]] Mr. Kumer has a replica of Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I hope to give an answer tomorrow, when Minister Vizjak is here, I have an open, concrete question for TDR Metallurgy. And I'll answer you tomorrow, Comrade Sok, whether you're right or not. With the help of the Government in which you are sitting, the government has committed fraud and 200 workers are thrown onto the road; with the help of the Government and the state company. And tomorrow I will give you this answer, why a union confidant is needed to protect workers despite very binding contracts that the owner has cheated on both the country and the workers, and workers have agreed to the employment agency in the year and a half. Instead of the 200,000 euros he paid for, he picked up 15 million and went to Korea.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Paloma was mentioned today. I believe that some leave memory, but Paloma does have a director who once masters, once without a master's title, and thus signs differently on these documents. And because he's protected by the minister. If only your Minister, the respected Mr Bajuk - in their contemporaneous sense of the word that it would not be misunderstood - if he acted transparently and in principle, in principle and consistently, he would forgive him, for he promised in the National Assembly that he would expel him if he saw that there was some kind of irregularity. But Paloma is not the only object of comparison calling for an authentic explanation of this article to be necessary. I think all the customers, I'll say, are equipped with a special guard of people who know how to get private, of course, social capital on the side of private accounts and how to get rich. I have a feeling that this new financing system is possible in Slovenia, and I believe that nothing is done and nothing is done. Names and surnames are known: The baboons, and the Scores, and the rams, and the Klemenčič, and I don't know what. But these people are walking around, and the fact is they've hurt someone deeply. They hurt the workers. This is already more than evident today, because many companies have already closed down. The fact is that this also violates the constitutional standard, which is the right to work. This right is enshrined in the Workers' Constitution. So much more needs to be looked at in this prism when we say that we have a marriage because these people are protected. They're not! If you look at the case law, they're not, because capital representatives simply don't respect the law, and they're excited about who the union representative is, who's the union confidant, who's the employee representative. He is simply dismissed from the firm and court proceedings or lawsuits, which are available as a result of legal protection for everyone, can be four-year, five-year-old, ten-year-old, and then this "acceptance" has already taken place. I am firmly convinced that if we do not support today - and I believe that you will not - this authentic explanation, that new injustices will arise here and that this practice will continue successfully. There are a few other companies that need to be emptied, I'll say, if I may say so, and I believe you'll be successful at that. But time will tell whether you were right or wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. The protection against forgiveness is many times the stage behind which both employers and representatives of workers hide and play a double role. That is why I have already stressed the importance of being able to explain this behind-the-scenes game, and that this may also be the reason for such acts. The existing legislation is clear: there is no need for an authentic explanation. After all, the case that took place showed that the legislation was clear. In front of me, the speaker stressed that employers and the courts are on the verge of violating the rights of workers. So, this means, regardless of whether or not we tighten the legislation, nothing will happen, and then it is necessary to make a difference in the execution work, in the criminal work. Should we then amend the legislation to fully protect unionists, including their perjury, harmful and criminal acts? Let us, however, also put ourselves in the position of employer. Will this be good for the company, it will be good for the workers - no! It will turn out to be the opposite, the war, and in war, everyone, but mostly the workers, will usually lose. Employers will take their pile to the other side where it is necessary in due time. Sorry, tycoons, as we call them in Slovenia, are not a product of bad union protection, but this is clear to all of us in the National Assembly and I think most Slovenians. That's not why they're here. It is probably the legislation that is responsible for taking over, or the inactive and uncompromising functioning of the courts. Or perhaps bribed prosecutors who file files and forget that a complaint must be filed in due time. But certainly not because of this provision, so all these debates are pointless, it is pure politicisation in the poor sense of the word. We must ask ourselves whether this protection provided by Article 113 is sufficient if we look at it from the point of view of the employees and employers, with the aim of ensuring that the company is well managed. Just whether it's enough. Should we then give a higher level of protection to unionists? So the next step is, even if he does something that is harmful to the company, which is criminal, or we will still protect it, because he still represents the authentic rights of workers. I'm not forcing you, if these things aren't clear, let's take another 14 days, and see if there's any need to submit a supplement or an authentic explanation. I myself do not believe that it is necessary to amend either the article or the authentic explanation. However, this provision must be implemented consistently. And in life it happens that the employer is violent and that he abuses it and puts the union trustee out. In this case, it has been shown that he had to take it back on the basis of this provision. Yeah, it turned out. So let's look at what security means on both sides. Protection - we are all, I think you are the only - against objective circumstances or that there are objective reasons. These are surplus workers, hospitals and other things. In this case, the employer is not entitled and is illegal if he forgives the union confidant. Because the role of the union confidant is important not only in terms of workers, but also for the company. Many employers are very shortsighted and work with workers shamelessly, but in the end they also work for their own detriment. And then we warn them, and I warn them myself -- because you're doing your own damage, so why are you doing it? It's my capital. I can do anything with it. It's not like that. It's not all mine. It's a legitimate right, a legal right, a property right, but it's not my full, unlimited right to do whatever I want with that property. Well, I'll point it out again. This sharper provision would present problems on both sides and increase the conflict between employers and workers. I am also not in favour of lowering the level of rights, but one that is just right and in some ways also contains the European Social Charter or implements it into our system. However, we will have to act on enforcement regulations, prosecutions, courts and other institutions so that this right will truly come to any benefit.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Now I understand that request that I have heard many times when someone says to someone, "Please don't defend me - because the consequences are actually unpredictable." The authentic interpretation that we have proposed speaks in such a way that, at least for the end, we will know exactly what we are talking about: "The provision of Article 113(1) of the Labour Relations Act should be understood in such a way that the employer must also in cases where a worker's representative is aware of a violation of the law, collective agreement and employment contracts, for the termination of the employment contract, as well as for the notification of the notice before the regular termination of the employment contract for reasons of fault to the employee representative, is required" - I emphasise necessarily - "to obtain the prior consent of the authority of which he is a member, or of the union, unless, in the case of a business reason, he refuses to offer appropriate employment or if it is a cancellation of the employer's termination procedure." To accept this authentic explanation in the way that it has been repeatedly said here that we want to protect employees or their representatives, trade unionists and members of the workers' councils in a way that they can do whatever they want to do to the company and that the employer cannot forgive them, is misleading the public - politely said. However, we have written down here that, in the case of false reasons, he will obtain prior consent. Do you think that unions within the company, holy workers within the company, who are still interested in the success of the companies they belong to, will protect someone who harms them? I am confident that this will not be the case and that in this case, if they find out the reasons for this, they will react as well, and the employer will have an open way. To talk about this being an additional absolute protection for workers' representatives, trade unionists, members of the boards in companies, is not true, because in this case it is also not an absolute protection for these representatives. And this authentic explanation primarily protects these people, those individuals who are willing to expose and risk their jobs despite the threat they face in individual working environments or businesses - and that is what we want to do. And when we talk about Paloma, when we talk about the fact that legislation is effective, that the President of the Council of Workers has been returned to the workplace - of course he has been returned. Why was he returned? Because of the media pressures that have occurred because the media has warned about this every day and it has to be done again. Above all, because there are other stories going on there, for which it is not good for them to be told very much, and their representative warned about them. So these individuals need to be protected, even if they are not at the will of New Slovenia, as was the case in this case specific, which we have actually been talking about. So it is impossible to agree to this thesis that the unions will cover the representatives of the holy workers at all costs, whether they work for the benefit of the employees or do harm to the company. Therefore, an authentic interpretation is certainly necessary, but I can agree with those who say that an authentic interpretation such as is recorded can go beyond the frameworks set out in Article 113. However, I cannot agree with what the Government says to send us on a regular basis, or to a cancellation that is arranged for all employees, for all those who work in companies. This means, of course, that we do not need, we do not need, we do not need, Article 113, which speaks of special protection. We can simply delete it from the Labour Relations Act. And we also found on the committee that this is not the case. The Committee was told that such an authentic interpretation as proposed could not be accepted or that it was not necessary. Of course, we didn't agree on this - it's not necessary. It may be inappropriate because it exceeds the framework set out and recorded in this Article, Article 113 of this Act. At the same time, we have decided to propose to the Government that this 113th Article should be regulated so that what is actually recorded in this authentic interpretation is also transferred to this article, and in this way we will effectively introduce protection, in particular, I say, for the protection of workers' representatives or trade unionists in the company. That's what this story is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Zagorac has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Two things, I think after this discussion you're clear. 113. Article, as it is, I speak substantively, as an article of the law we have all agreed to give sufficient rights and obligations to both employers and representatives of workers. Contrary to what we are now hearing, however, they merely point to the need for an authentic explanation of a certain article. Because we as legislators don't know how to explain it or explain it in our own way or according to a certain political option - each in its own way. As regards the reasons or the explanation of the authentic explanation, as the proponents wrote. I must immediately say that Paloma's audit report, mentioned here, is the most secure secret in this country. According to information available to the opposition, I must say that Minister Bajuk also told me he did not have it. I don't know if any of the other colleagues who are any closer to this administration are personally familiar with someone from the administration that they probably have, but probably not the official one. [[...]] [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] Then, Jože, I'd like you to take your place. [[...]] There were criminals in Paloma. There was an audit in Paloma. The Kosovo commission has spoken about Paloma. The media reported Paloma. Paloma was discussed by the Committee on the Economy. Paloma was discussed by the Commission on Petitions. We are talking about Paloma recently or we are also talking at a meeting of the National Assembly and let me know if everything is okay there. Because if someone tells me that this has been provoked on either side, I have to tell you that that side has terrible power, that it could have caused all this to happen, as it happens; or that something was really wrong. Finally, it is necessary to say - in Paloma, the Supervisory Council has also resigned and in one of the explanations of the President of the Supervisory Council coming from New Slovenia, it was said that he resigned because he could not apply the policy as set out in this company by the Ministry of Finance. Excuse me. Who does the policy in which company?Oh, my God! The Ministry of Finance?Oh, my God! And that is to be feared under this article! And when it was said that the one we're talking about is this worker, the representative of the workers we're talking about, in this authentic explanation, it's not hard for me to say his name and last name because I can. Believe me. His name is Joze Korotaj. Today he is a member of the newly established Paloma Supervisory Board. You know what his greatest secrets are to the Members and Members of Parliament, who are representatives of all the people, the people who own Paloma, because the country still has so much share in it. I've got this letter right here in front of me. It's probably all on your computer. The biggest mystery, at least so I heard, was that he was issuing business secrets: "On the basis of the growing deterioration of the company's business and the resulting threat to our social security we have turned to owners, to the supervisory council and to the administration of society and because there was no response, to the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia." I mean, who else are they after, because they don't have other options anymore?Oh, my God! If they are not taken into account by the owner, those to whom we have entrusted our share of our property do not answer them, do not answer them by the Government, do not answer them by the administration, do not answer them by the supervisory council - then we are only Members. And right, our job is that we have also responded to such indications of abuse as we have. And it goes on to say, "The voluntary operation of the management of the company without the knowledge of the owners," the owner also said that he did not know that he received an extraordinary cancellation "and the disrespect or misinterpretation of Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act". That's why we have an authentic explanation here. Don't take responsibility for the workers. We must explain to ourselves what Article 113 means and how to interpret it from now on. But not politically, since Paloma is not only a problem, it is no longer an enterprise, but it is not in all NSIs in it, or SDS, there is another party in which company and it must not be happening there. And that's the purpose of today's debate, let's get this straight. You present a better version of this authentic explanation, not that you end up coalitionly proposing another decision on a committee that, I said earlier, is pure "lari-fari" and misleading the public and workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u163	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u164	Thank you. The authentic interpretation of Article 113 is intended to protect the one who is weaker in relation to him. And it is impossible to claim or agree to the thesis that those who bring laws that exacerbate legislation and penal policy into the National Assembly now suddenly see so much bad in trying to protect the one who is weaker in a relationship. In the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, we have been given the role of the Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenian Enterprises, which have just pointed out that working representatives in many companies are unprotected and, although they are then given adequate legal protection, cannot exercise their rights because, say, of the Lama case. The worker is out of work for two years, even though the right is on his side. Even in the public administration, it is one way or another in the executive branch of the authority that a worker or employee has received satisfaction in a court of law and that his employer, in this case the state administration, does not enable him to do so. Recently, we have also heard this from the mouth of government representatives, how all bad unions are accused when they are actually involved. It must be really embarrassing to hear those who warn. Let me just give you one more example. Perhaps you have a case in mind of the Lenda company Concept Optimum. However, for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, the Commission was able to achieve that, at least for the future, the matter was so regulated that such abuses could not occur. But what happened then - that I was called by the employer who committed all this non-compliance with the law and claimed that his human rights were violated. That's how you see things. Now we're getting reports that they're tortured executives. We had heard such a personal experience before, that someone as a director was tortured and persecuted. This is about the protection of workers' rights. And the Social Democrats have also twice introduced a law on the participation of workers in profit - if it has already had to be reminded of different collectors and more. Only consistent monitoring of work is needed, and what really matters to whom will be seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor, on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u166	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, the repeatedly heard definition that the law is on the side of the weaker and that it must protect especially the weaker is, of course, important because we find, on the one hand, employers and on the other hand, employers. In this respect, it is probably clear to all that on the labour side, those who are weaker in this relationship and who may also be exposed to certain bullying, certain attempts to get rid of them in such or other ways, and these people, workers, certainly need to be protected. In this case, we are not talking about workers in general. In this case, we are talking about workers, trade unions, members of the worlds within these companies, and this is even more important. It is particularly important because these individuals or individuals represent the interests of employees. They represent the interests of the union within the company. And because they are doing this well and because they are doing it with the aim of making it work well, but not with the aim of harming this company, it is, of course, necessary to think very carefully when we incorporate the guardians into their marriage; and in this case, it is a matter of certainty. The employer’s decision to get rid of someone we can also call a disruptive worker in this case will, of course, be based on resignation, on the grounds that he violated the laws, that he acted contrary to the collective agreement. We probably don't think in this esteemed National Council that the employer, when he writes an explanation, or when he explains why he forgives a working representative from the company, will write that he forgives him because he is a good worker and will therefore seek the consent of a trade union or a council of workers. He will probably record that he is in violation of the laws, that he is in breach of the collective agreement, and that he will therefore be threatened with failure or failure. In this case, when the employer decides to dismiss the worker for the reasons he has assessed, as assessed by the employer, we would like to inform the union and inform the Council of Workers in this case. And the union or the council of workers then also decides whether the justification for the employer’s decision to dismiss someone from the company is justified or not. And here we return to the story of the role of trade unions and worlds of workers within businesses. Once again, I say that unions and holy workers will by no means protect someone who does harm to the company. Because by hurting the company, it also harms them. Especially him. Because employees in these companies, employees in these companies will find it very difficult to find a new job. Employers find a solution to themselves sooner than before. For employers, capital stands, owners stand, and they will find it much easier if problems arise than employees. Therefore, the employees are still interested in their company doing well, and therefore the expectation that there will be abuse is, of course, unjustifiable, because the interest in the existence of a company in which they work is certainly greater than any game they might otherwise have. Therefore, finding that an explanation is not necessary is certainly not the correct conclusion. As I said before, we can land or be closer to us that you have found that the interpretation is not appropriate, that it goes beyond the content of this law and that by an explanation as provided and recorded in the Legislative and Legal Service - it is not possible to disseminate the text of the law and explain something that is written in the law. This is an argument that can withstand serious judgment. Well, in this case, an explanation would not be appropriate. The fact that it is not necessary, however, does not hold; the fact that the article is clear does not hold; the fact that the article refers to the specific protection of workers, which is also being implemented in practice, does not hold true. We have listed two specific cases, probably - and I am sure - that these cases are in practice much more than we know, for some we will never know, because the media have not focused on them. However, these two cases were media exposed, so they also resolved slightly differently than they would have. It is necessary or necessary to amend Article 113, which will also be in line with the Declaration of the International Labour Organisation. However, it is certainly necessary to draw up a finding by the Committee which has decided that the Government will, in one due time, of course draw up a solution and in this 113th paragraph actually introduces the content of the mandatory interpretation that we have proposed and that you do not think is necessary. Once again, it is a matter of protecting the weaker in relation to the stronger, to the decision of the judge, to the one who decides to take away the existential possibilities for survival and to be unjustifiable, but it may not be necessary to say that the individual has violated the law unjustifiably, that the individual has violated the collective agreement. So let us allow these people to have an opinion in their body, and let us trust those who work in this company, even for the benefit of this company, to be able to decide whether the employer did the right thing or whether the employer might have done the wrong thing in this case. And in this case they shall take to the protection of their representative, their union confidant or their member, if not even the president of the Council of Workers in a particular company. So our purpose is certainly good. However, it is also true that the provisions of Article 113 should not now be interpreted as being quite clear, that the working body and later the National Assembly have not accepted a mandatory interpretation, that the compulsory interpretation is not necessary, that the article is perfectly clear and that the matter, as it is, is regulated only correctly. We point out that Article 113 should be read differently, that Article 113 deals with specific rights, I stress once again, with the special rights of workers' representatives or their representatives, and that Article 113 needs to be amended, but that we can make it so that the Government can draw up an appropriate proposal and forward it to the National Assembly for admission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u167	Thank you. This concludes the debate. I'm breaking this agenda. I'm also adjourning the meeting. In doing so, I inform you that a meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development will begin in 10 minutes. It is anticipated that 10 minutes after the meeting of the Committee, we will move on to the continuation of the meeting of the assembly, which is in the vote, on which Members and Members or Members of the Group will be informed in due time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u168	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our adjourned session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Before that, I inform you that the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development has not decided on the Proposal for a decree to call for an advisory referendum on the areas of the provinces in Slovenia. By 9 a.m. tomorrow, we will receive a communication on the Committee's future course, which means that we are moving to the vote today in conjunction with the points envisaged. Before the vote, however, a procedural proposal, Comrade Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u169	Mr President, with all the apologies, because you as President have no responsibility for this, but as we do in the National Assembly, it is no longer appropriate for normal, responsible functioning. I'd ask anyone, but probably the president of the National Assembly, to tell us how we're going to work in the future. We received different notices every day. That's impossible. We cannot prepare ourselves, at the same time there are meetings of working bodies and potential meetings of the National Assembly. Tomorrow, we don't know what we're gonna do. For today, we were all until recently convinced that the first vote on the points we have already carried out and later on the mother's working body in relation to the referendum will be the vote. Last minute we got a different notice. Can anyone tell me what we're gonna do tomorrow? I believe that this leadership of the National Assembly, led by the President, is irresponsibly carrying out its fundamental duties of organising the work of the National Assembly, with one goal alone - to achieve what the ruling coalition has poorly imagined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I hope you will not take my implementation as an excuse to yourself. However, let me tell you that, personally as chairman, I have not even been informed of what was happening on the Committee on Local Self-Government. Of course, I ask the Chairman of the Committee to inform the Members present of the decision taken by the Committee. Your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u171	Thank you very much. I do not know why it is necessary to explain here what was at the meeting of the committee; all the members of the committee were present at the meeting. The opposition demanded that the Legislative and Legal Service be defined to the amendments that have been tabled, and the Legislative and Legal Service will do so tomorrow. As chairman of the committee, I announced that the members of the Committee on Local Self-Government would be informed by 9 a.m. tomorrow when the meeting would continue. However, if he had not ordered a recess as requested, much would have been said again about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Although we have also done what we have done to grant a break for the legislative and legal service to be defined by the amendments, this is also not a business request, but was the request of three opposition Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u172	Thank you very much for explaining, Comrade Jazbec. But we have, I think, another procedural proposal. Comrade Rezman, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I just want to make it clear that what the chairman of the committee just said is not true. Not all the members of the committee were on this board unless I was dismissed in the middle or if I was so insignificant that they didn't notice that I wasn't there. So this committee has not met as has been said, but it is already common for the National Assembly and individual committees to work in a totally chaotic manner, so that those who are more serious are no longer found.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u174	Thank you very much for your explanation. I suggest you, Comrade Potts, an additional procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u175	Presidents, just to explain to you and your colleagues and colleagues. My procedural proposal or warning did not refer to the president of the labour force, but to the President of the National Assembly. He is responsible for how we work, for each day or for the previous day, we should be informed of the schedule of the agenda items the next day, even when the meetings of the mother's working bodies are convened, we do not know what we will decide about tomorrow - the point that seems most important to the ruling coalition, and it is only right that the opposition knows how we will decide on the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Now we're breaking up with procedurals. Comrade Jazbec, thank you for introducing us to the committee. I ask all Members present to check the functioning of their voting devices. An orange light shall burn on the right side of the card, following the usual practice. I see that there are no comments on the voting devices, which means we can move on to a decision. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda, which is the re-decision on the Penal Code We are moving on to a decision on that law. At the same time, I would like to point out that a majority of the members of the National Assembly must vote in favour of the adoption of that law in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of Slovenia, i.e. 46 or more. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Does anyone want to do this on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. I'm opening a procedure for self-explanation. Please. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u177	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So, in my own name, I say that there is no way I can vote for such a bill. I assumed and hoped that the legislator would take this opportunity when the Council of State voted this veto, as an opportunity for a new weighty reflection that this law was totally inappropriate and that it would not be confirmed in today's vote. However, it seems, and it is obvious, that all the disciplines, all the warnings of judges, lawyers, prosecutors are unwarranted, unheard, unheard, and thus unaided. We will see what will happen after November 1st when this law enters into force. For the last time, Minister Sturm at the State Council hearing praised the fact that there are no unjustified and excessive backlogs in the criminal area, but we will see if this will continue to apply after 1 November. At present, in the case of 15 000 pending criminal cases in Slovenia and in any case, when this law comes into force, the judge will have to judge whether the offence has been committed earlier or not. And that's going to take some extra complicated work from the court. Dear colleagues and colleagues, some of the professions viewed this law as a civil "fopa", and I'm afraid they're right. And one more thing, I have warned you once before, in the Council of Europe they are asking whether it is even worthwhile to use and execute life imprisonment. And that paper specifically indicated that, unfortunately, there are only four other countries in Europe that do not have a life sentence. Among them, Slovenia was mentioned. From now on, Slovenia will probably not be on this list anymore. And with this you can go to Europe in a wider way [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Dear Koren, your word. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u179	Thank you. In my name, however, I think that I can also say on behalf of the entire New Slovenia Group that we will be happy to support this new criminal code, which is back on trial today. We are convinced that it brings many new positive changes that will have positive consequences, both for citizens and citizens of Slovenia and for the judiciary alone, so that this code will also help to reduce judicial backlogs. It brings, as I said, so many positive changes that I think the code needs to be supported. If I stress just once again some of those main things, the real violations in the field of labour law will be more appropriately sanctioned, especially the right of workers to be mothers, so that what is happening so far is no longer that they have to sign declarations that they will not have children and so on. That appropriate treatment will also be given to bullying in the workplace, as well as a bold drive under the influence of alcohol or drugs, including a ban on torture, and perhaps even if I say another word about pedophiles' records. In this area, too, the Penal Code brings news that needs to be addressed properly and appropriately in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, some government representatives are boasting and beating your chest to protect our children because you are introducing a register of pedophiles, a proposal that we have tried to launch and also legalize at the very beginning of this mandate. In 2006, he was at the table of the Proposal for a Penal Code which I had tabled in the parliamentary procedure. At that time, you voted against the protection of children against the extension of the limitation period for the declaration of crimes against sexual inviolability. And today, the representatives of the government coalition hope to report to anyone who expresses concerns about the Penal Code, to those on the table today and which we are re-declaring today, you hope to know that we are against or against the protection of children. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I have its opinion in hand, said: No, because the register means unnecessary duplication, because the register means additional spending of budgetary resources. The government said no to raising out-of-date deadlines. The government even says or this same Minister Sturm: In view of the above, we are wondering whether there is a greater sense of extension of the time limit for the prosecution of crimes against sexual inviolability. This would, however, constitute an extension of the possibility of initiating a criminal procedure, but it is only for this reason that Minister Šturm notes that the court will ultimately be forced to conclude that, due to the expiry of the period of proof, it is not objectively possible and that the conditions for conviction are not laid down. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a double morality, and this is your populism, which is valuable and shameful for this country. Hand to heart, marriage is completely weak, even though it brings some positive changes. And because of these positive changes, I will listen to you this time and personally support your proposal on behalf of the higher protection of children.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u182	Thank you. Member Aleš Gulič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u183	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to support the marriage that's in front of us. I haven't done it so far, and even in what happened after the first consideration of the law, it's actually clear that the marriage is bad, even in this first general work. In the second part, which could also be treated as a novelty of the law, there are certainly positive solutions. But because of some of these sweets, which, of course, were brought by Mr Lovro Sturm in a very repressive general work, of course, I cannot vote in favour. In fact, all Europe is moving away from repression, trying to bring new modern civilisation solutions into all criminal law, and everything related to punishment, and Slovenia is going far back. Of course, there is no reason to support the law. However, the solutions that are in the second part and, for example, would not have been adopted in this way, we are also prepared to support in the Liberal Democracy if they come before us as novels of the existing criminal code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Majda Shirtz.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Not just me, but my colleague and my colleagues aren't going to support the marriage. There was another option. Reinforced and similarly explained as it has been so far, today, a number of explanations of the government's legislation service, the state-level legislative services, the entire academic profession. But no. You've been lining up and driving 60 articles a minute. With such cunning and speed, you have regulated this law, which will enter into force on November 1st, which, after the consequences it will bring on that day, will indeed mean in some way the day of the dead rule of law. Why? Because there's going to be a collapse. There will be an impossible situation if no one who applies this law goes on leave, cannot apply this law or practice it, will not be informed of it. Nor will legal practice be sufficient to offer quick and such effects as you want. But then, that'll be after November 1st. I'm sure you won't be "tangered" by then. In short, the will was greater than reason and you will have to give answers when there is a breakdown of the legal system that is already in trouble. This marriage will add to your problems. By not denying some solutions that are acceptable in this law, but not entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u186	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 26. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 27th paragraph of the agenda - this is by re-declaring the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyers. We are moving on to a decision on that bill. In doing so or before that, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 33. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 33.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. However, we continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Triglav National Park within the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, with two amendments tabled in Article 1. We will first decide on the amendment of the SDS, NSI, to Article 1 above. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 46. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 1, the proposed Parliamentary Group Parliamentary Club Liberal Democracy Slovenia. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 42. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 4 in which we will decide on two amendments, namely the amendment of the SDS and NSI members. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 46. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And we are moving on to the second amendment to the same, i.e. Article 4, proposing Group sent by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 42. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the amendment for a new Article 5.b, proposed by the SDS, NSI and SNS. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 45. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And we are moving on to Article 8 where we have three amendments, namely the first amendment, the drafter of the SDS and NSI Group of Members. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 47. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on amendment number 2 to article 8, proposed by the SNS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 47. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment to Article 8, the proposaler of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. Excuse me, Comrade Školč, on my behalf or on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u187	On behalf of the Group of Members. So, I take this opportunity to say to this amendment that you are voting on a solution that, while the law on the TNP was being discussed, you are voting on a solution that, while it was being discussed, was about an intervention in this area and about the possibilities that the people living there should have had. At that time, there was a compromise to ensure that people involved in tourism there were able to build capacity up to 70 beds. The ruling party has attacked it a lot, and so have their other supporters. The locals, at least some, wanted it quite badly. The then government came with this solution, and today you have the opportunity to face another proposal made by the next government, which further increases these accommodation capacity. So, you four years ago opposed solutions to go to such an extent in these tourist facilities, today you do not want to support this, and tomorrow you will increase these capacities. Either it's not some kind of deception or ignorance or what's normal, ignorance in the adoption of this law. For this morning we have heard that in the law and amendments that we now accept or reject, virtually all the solutions contained in the law awaiting procedure are in place. When this law is most likely to be undeclared, you will swallow up the promise you made to all the inhabitants of the park to adopt this law in this mandate. I'm sure that won't be possible. However, if possible, you will eat up the promise you have made to people who are concerned about all the interventions in the park, because with your idea, interventions, as far as accommodation is concerned, will be significantly greater than those proposed in the convention law. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 21 votes against 42. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 9. We also have three amendments tabled in this article. We will first vote on the first amendment, the drafter of the SNS Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 46. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Amendment under order number 2, proposalr Parliamentary Group Parliamentary Club Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 18 votes against 45. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Amendment under order number 3, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 41. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 10. We have two proposals for amendments, for the first time, those proposed by the SDS, NSI and SNS. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 45. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the amendment under order number 2, the candidate of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 44. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 12 as well as two amendments. The first amendment, proposed to the SDS and NSI Group of Members. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 47. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 47.]] Amendment under order number 2, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 42. [[in favour of a vote of 15.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 13 and the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Explanation of voice. Procedurally. Here you go, Mrs. Barbara Žgajner Tavsh.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I give, and I think, a very meaningful, procedural proposal to vote on all the following amendments in the package. It is clear that the Government has decided, given that it has prepared its law on Triglav National Park, that it will also throw this law out of the procedure, because, as we have seen or seen in the previous few votes on the amendments tabled, today's ruling coalition has voted against even its amendments, which it has tabled in its previous term as an opposition, even against government proposals. I think it makes sense to vote on all the amendments in the package. This will save us time, and time is finally money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The first paragraph of Article 136 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall permit such a decision to be taken by the National Assembly. This is what the National Assembly must conclude on. So, the procedural proposal by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš to vote on all amendments to all articles at the same time, I am voting. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 34 votes in favour, 39 against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 39.]] I find that the procedural proposal is not adopted. It means that we continue to decide on individual amendments in the future. We are at Article 13 and have remained before the vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 39. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 14 and two amendments. The first amendment, proposed to the SDS and NSI Group of Members. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 45. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 45.]] Amendment under order number 2, proposalr Parliamentary Group Parliamentary Club Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 41. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 15 and the amendment of the drafters of SDS and NSI. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 46. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 16 and deciding on the two amendments. Amendment under order number 1, proposed by the SNS Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 44. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Amendment under order number 2, proposed to the SDS and NSI Group of Members. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 43. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 17 and decide on the two amendments. First amendment, proposed by the SNS Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 47. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2, the proposaler of the SDS Group and NSI. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 45. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move on to Article 18 and to the decision on the two amendments. Amendment under order number 1, proposed to the SDS and NSI Group of Members. Comrade Saiovic, on behalf of the Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Group of Members. Article 18 is one of the most important articles in the Triglav National Park Act and on such a day as today, when we experience one of the farstic excesses of Slovenian democracy, when those who have proposed amendments do not even believe themselves anymore, let alone the government, would warn you [[...]] [[Anyone else want a word? No, thank you very much.]] I would like to remind you of only one fact that, after we have missed a deadline of four years to establish a modern law with which local communities, in particular those exercising protection, would be deprived of a few ten million euros in the situation in nature, to these municipalities by non-adherence to the law. Article 18 of the Law refers to incentives and co-financing. What matters is that when we take rights by protecting people, by protecting them, we certainly have to give them something on the other hand. And this article also speaks of municipalities within the Triglav National Park area being able to have certain projects co-financed by the State budget or from European budgets to help them with 80% co-financing. And that's what parks are all about. It is painful, of course, in 2008, for people living in Triglav National Park to demand that they continue to walk hungry, barefoot, or in chopsticks, that they do not farm, ride with oxen and horses, instead of tractors, but give them nothing in return. And unfortunately, we've lost four years. I hope that the coalition that is coming to people will be more friendly, more reasonable and more inclined to allow them to accept benefits and ratings in their marriage, half of which are restrictions. I will gladly support the amendment, despite the fact that it comes from the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u192	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 39. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Amendment under order number 2, proposed by the LDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 39. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 19 and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the LDS Club. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 38. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 20 and deciding on the two amendments. Amendment under order number 1, proposed by the SNS Group of Ambassadors. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 44. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Amendment number 2, Emissary Group LDS. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 40. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 21 and the amendment - proposed Group sent by the LDS Club. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 40. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 23 and to a decision on the three amendments. First Amendment - the drafter Parliamentary Group of the SNS. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 10 votes against 43. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Amendment under order number 2 - Applicant Parliamentary Group Emissary Club LDS. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 39. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Amendment under order number 3 - the proposer to the SDS and NSI Group of Members. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 11 votes against 40. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Chapter 8: Penalty provisions - proposing Group Parliamentary Club LDS. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 40. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the 31st article - the proposed amendment by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 37. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We turn to article 32a and the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 37. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 33 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the LDS. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 37. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment, the proposaler of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to Article 34. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 37. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Amendment 34a is proposed by the Group of Ambassadors of the Liberal Democracy Club. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 38. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the amendment has not been adopted. We move on to Article 34b and to the decision on the three amendments. Amendment under order number 1, proposed by the SDS Group of Members, NSI. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 9 votes against 39. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 2, the proposer of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 40. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 3, proposed by the SD Group of Members. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 39. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We turn to article 34.c and the amendment proposed by the Group of Ambassadors of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 15 votes against 41. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 34th and to the decision on the amendment of the SDS and NSI members. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 42. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We will decide on amendments to Annexes 1, 2 and 3. First of all, the amendment to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposed Parliamentary Group Parliamentary Club Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 39. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing there's no change. Secondly, we decide on the government's amendment. Comrade Gulic, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u193	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I will support this amendment, as I have done so far, because it seems to me that they are doing well in solving this problem. At the same time, I would point out that we are not actually adopting the law, but that today the ruling coalition was allowed the joy of once voting against the government and against its proposals. The images are joyful, joyful, except for five warmhearted ones who cannot even accept this joy. It's worth supporting. Of course, you vote against it, because I see that it is in your sincere joy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u194	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 39. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] We have thus concluded our decision on individual amendments and I inform you that no amendments have been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As it is said, amendments to the amended law have not been adopted and amendments cannot be tabled in the third reading, so we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to a decision on the proposal for a law. Before giving the floor to my colleague Školč, let me also inform you that, pursuant to Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have not notified me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would not have made the proposal inconsistent. My fellow schoolboy, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u195	Thank you very much. This routine with which you reported on the work of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government certainly does not correspond to the truth. For the amendments, which were rejected, in some way gave the possibility that the law would be consistent. From this point of view, Mr President, I must say that we are in some paradoxical situation. If the Members were to do their work and vote in the way they are expected, they would now be in the dilemma that we have supported those who have complemented us in some way to vote against the law, because none of the proposed amendments have been adopted. But those who rejected the supplements were silent, and the government supported them, and they would have passed the law. Of course that's not gonna happen. There's no doubt about that. That is why I do not know whether I would vote against the rest of the law for rational reasons, because many of the things that have been discussed with environmentalists, park administrations, nature conservation services have not been confirmed. Many of these matters, which you have rejected so easily today, are incorporated into the same text into the law that awaits. Of course it's a time loop. This time loop means that if the law wants to have at least as much democratic inspiration as the previous one, which has obviously been challenged, it will have to go into a two-month debate before the affected. It would be good to have a general debate in the National Assembly as well, and it would be good to have an appropriate public presentation of the opinions. All of this or only part of what he is obliged to do makes it clear that the coalition deliberately delayed the adoption of this law in order not to change anything in the area of the Triglav National Park. This is the situation you brought in. You've been promising people for four years so that they won't accept anything in the end, you dragged them by the nose.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u196	Thank you. But let me fill you in. The truth is that neither the Legislative and Legal Service nor the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have informed me that the law, due to amendments adopted at MDT, would be inconsistent with the home labour body. Explanation of voice. Comrade Saiowice. I'm asking, does anyone want to do it on behalf of the Group of Members? Comrade Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u197	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Regardless of the truth that has been told by respectable colleague Školč, logic, we will support the proposal of this law in the Slovenian National Party, despite the rejection of the amendments. This will make clear our will and respect for the Triglav National Park and the values we have, the values we value and the attitude towards the people who live there. What happened today is an unprecedented farce that would have thrown the government in Italy before even calling the next meeting. With all that is said, seen and experienced, let me express another great disappointment on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, because of all this we can only conclude that those who oppose and oppose the Triglav National Park Act want to shoot some more wildlings, catch some fish, some probably want to build a weekend house or a house, drive a little by road, race with engines, wheels and destroy our nature while they can. A few new weekends will grow, a few new houses will be added to their wishes, and after they are delighted, they will make a proposal for a new law on the Triglav National Park. I respect this house and respect all my colleagues and colleagues because I know that many are trying, but what happened today through the process is shameful and outrageous for this Parliament. Yes, we will be happy to support this law and thus say everything we sincerely feel about our Slovenian land.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u198	Anyone else in their own name? I'm opening the procedure, please. Comrade Borut Saiovic, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Chairman. I will support the law, because a law that has not been passed by any of the amendments, a law that is not opposed by the law-law service, a law that has nothing to say to the Government, is obviously a good law. There is probably no coincidence in my life that this moment on my "mail" has been written a letter from the respected Mrs Elena Cavečarič talking about the Law on Mental Health. I think today's debate and vote and the Mental Health Act are very closely linked. I will also be happy to support the marriage because it obviously brings a number of good solutions, which this other government also sums up, and unfortunately it has no serious intention of putting them into practice. Better is the law than no law, better is the law than the law, which is for such important things as the fate of the Biathlon Centre in the Rudne Field in Pokluka, better is the law, which tells at least the solutions to what to do on the Vogla ski resort, that we will continue to ski in a modern way and protect nature. Unquestionably, marriage is also needed because it recognizes the effort and the work that has been put into it by the locals, the Bohinites, and other congregations in the Triglav National Park. There is no doubt that it must also be supported because a number of hours of civil initiative and environmentalists have been invested in this law. Simply such an ignorant or "pischmeuhov" way is something of a poor traveller to a new law that we will undoubtedly see on sent-off benches in the next term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u200	Thank you. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 42. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the law has not been adopted and therefore I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 113(1) of the Labour Relations Act. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads as follows: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 113(1) of the Labour Relations Act shall not be adopted. I am opening the application procedure on behalf of the groups of Members. Member Boštjan Zagorac has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the Lipa Group, we will support the proposal for an authentic explanation, as proposed by our fellow Members, so we will vote against the decision of the working body. In view of some explanations for the vote of the coalition members in the first vote today, it is said that when we talked about the Penal Code and how well it solves something, there was also a lot of talk about the protection of workers. Well, let's see if you're two-faced, just for four years, like the Triglav National Park, or even for half an hour, as far as it's been since then. Here we have the possibility of authentic interpretation of Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act to support or protect workers' representatives in individual companies. The last few examples show that it is imperative to do so. I wonder if this time he will weigh that finger, which is usually shown by the leaders of the largest coalition parties, how to vote, whether your free decision will prevail, at least so you say it is always like that, and you will actually confirm what you said in the Penal Code, and apply it here and show that you have some consciousness. If you follow only the finger, then it's the same to the kinology society where everything works on the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Member Bojan Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is understandable that in the Group of Social Democrats we will not support the conclusion of the working body. On the contrary, we will vote against this decision because we are still convinced that Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act is unclear and can be interpreted differently. This is what we are convinced by the actual events, given in the explanation two, probably many more, namely, in practice, which we do not even know about. In this case, which we therefore propose with a mandatory authentic explanation, it is a matter of special protection for workers' rights or working representatives. Thus, we should also understand the purpose of this protection, which is enshrined in Article 113 of the Labour Relations Act. Unfortunately, as I have already said, in practice it is also explained differently. In this case, it is a matter of protecting the weaker one, and it is not an absolute protection, as it has been heard many times today, because if we understood it this way, we would express our distrust of the union as well as of the workers' world. It is not an absolute protection, but it is a special protection that allows when an employer decides to terminate an employment contract with a worker's representative or in a world of workers or trade unions to justify such termination, contracts may be examined or identified by an authority to be a trade union or a labour council. We are firmly convinced, in the Group of Social Democrats, that we are actually interfering with the area to be regulated by protecting the rights of workers' representatives. We tried that with an authentic explanation. Well, the mother labour body has decided that it is necessary to supplement Article 113 in a way that amends the article, knowing that our proposal will not be adopted, despite the fact that we will oppose this proposal of the parent labour body, we are comforted by the fact that the knowledge that the amendments to Article 113 are also necessary in the ruling coalition that supported the decision of the parent labour body to make changes to the Government. This also indicates, of course, the fact that Article 113 is unclear, that it can be interpreted differently and that this weakness, in the protection of workers, in the protection of weaker workers, in the employer-to-employer relationship, needs to be addressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? Thank you very much, Comrade Moge. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 24. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 24.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Therefore, he rejected the authentic explanation and the procedure for the acceptance of the authentic interpretation was completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Affairs, under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Foreign Affairs, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. Excuse me, can we get to the vote? An explanation of the voice in your own name? Comrade Aurelio Yuri, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u205	On behalf of the House of Representatives, as well as on behalf of the House of Representatives. We will not oppose this bill. As we said yesterday, we hope and expect the proposer, namely the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Government, to take into account the comments made by the trade unions in particular. It is about taking advantage of this opportunity to settle all those matters for which long-standing practice has shown that they are not regulated. Today, the government within the ministry is very unhappy and the unions are proposing the solutions we discussed yesterday. We are sad that no partnership has already taken place in the preparation of this proposal in the drafting of the bill itself, and that it has warned us that the solutions prepared by the unions have been overlooked and rejected. Now the government has time. Also in view of the other comments we heard yesterday that we are taking a more serious approach to the preparation of the second reading law, we will insist on this on the Committee on Foreign Policy and hope that yesterday's debate will continue. Otherwise, next time and if these comments are not formulated into a concrete solution, we will not impose such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-20-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u206	Thank you, too. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 6. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Therefore, the law or proposal for a law will be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Until then, say good-bye!
