ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Anton Anderlich, mag. Janez Drobnič by 4 p.m., Mr. Joseph Horvat by 3 p.m., Breda Pecan and Alojz Sok. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE PROTECTION OF CULTURAL INSTITUTIONS, IN THE framework of a regular procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Please, Mrs. Jelka Pirkovic, State Secretary from the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, since July of last year, the proposal for a law on the protection of cultural heritage, which has so far, as you know, been through all stages of consideration, since the first reading, public presentation of opinions and the last reading on the working body, as well as in the body dealing with minority issues. By not repeating the basic characteristics of the intention of the proposer, the objectives and the solution of this law, but by simply highlighting a few facts. Also with the help of the National Assembly, the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the importance of cultural heritage for society, Slovenia will be one of the few countries that will have ratified all international legal standards in the field of cultural heritage protection. Moreover, with your support, of course, when the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage is adopted, we will also incorporate these international standards into our legal order, which is extremely important. The law itself, the legal basis itself, does not yet mean that everything will automatically be perfectly resolved in our field. There will have to be a lot more to do here, and the Government, the Ministry of Culture in particular, is ready to put a lot of effort and work into this project to improve the protection of cultural heritage. This is all the more important because Slovenia is now firmly anchored in the new development cycle. We know that there is a lot of investment in public infrastructure ahead of us in order to change the systems of state administration and local self-government, and all of this means that we must equip both the state administration and the public service in this area with the best possible tools for a successful operation. I'm sure the law offers these tools. At the same time, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, if adopted, we will finally resolve the issue of non-systemic financing of a large number of museums. This case has been going on since the late 1980s, in such a way that the state will continue to support the most vital parts of this system. Finally, let me stress that in this way we will also be able to protect the intangible cultural heritage, what we are talking about in the bill of law, as a living heritage, which is even more important for Slovenia and our national self-esteem and consciousness. Of course, I am prepared to provide further, individual, complementary explanations or views of the applicant. So, I hope our debate will be fruitful. At the same time, I would like to thank all the Members and Members who have proposed a number of useful additions in these proceedings, and I hope that we will also incorporate them into the law together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport as a parent working body. I give my word to the chairman of the committee, mag. Grimes to present the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you. At its meeting on 10 January 2008, the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport discussed the proposal of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage in second reading. Last year, a general debate was held on the draft law, namely on 29 October, in which the National Assembly decided that the law was an example for further consideration. At the request of the Group of Members, a public presentation of opinions was then made to Miklavž on 6 December, which was very well visited and in which many arguments for the adoption of the new law were also drawn up and a number of comments were made to improve its text. On the basis of these comments and on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, amendments were tabled. The Committee examined all the amendments and decided on them and completed the text with some 50 amendments and 18, rejected them. The debate also drew attention to the Commission of the National Assembly, which highlighted the importance of minority cultural heritage, which must have special status. It needs special attention to be maintained. The importance of financing research, the procedures for the granting of powers, the issues related to the announcement and the eventual withdrawal or removal of the individual monument was also highlighted. Finally, the Committee is so supplemented with the text, it is said, with the amendments adopted, it has also been confirmed and we propose to the National Assembly to adopt it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 32nd meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 29.1.2008. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! When we were in the development partnership period, we proposed the harmonisation of this law. Unfortunately, most of these proposals were not adopted at the time, because, following this partnership agreement, another round in the Government and within the various pillars has been reversed and another amended proposal has finally come out without taking into account most of our proposals. Well, we have therefore proposed a general discussion, we have also proposed a public presentation of opinions on this law, and indeed, on this draft almost 70 amendments have been proposed, which is to say slightly less than half of the articles have been proposed amendments or additions to the articles. At the outset, the Secretary of State, Dr Pirkovič, said that by adopting the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society in January, we would practically have all the conventions dealing with cultural heritage under our roof. We also adopted one of these in December, by adopting the Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Insubstantial Cultural Heritage. And it is also with regard to this Convention that our amendment to Article 1 of this Law, which refers to the purpose of this Act and in paragraph 3, divides the inheritance into a tangible and living inheritance and continues to be a movable and immovable heritage. The Social Democrats' amendment goes in this direction to divide heritage into material and instead of living heritage we propose that it be a more appropriate expression of intangible heritage. In fact, this expression of living heritage or, say, living culture reminds me of a certain period of time when we talked about living and inanimate, or to say, in sayings, dead culture. Living culture is supposed to be the one that is creative, in the theater, in the opera, writers and so on, creating new works of beauty. While it is supposed to be an inanimate or a dead heritage that is kept in museums, objects are said, and then immovable heritage such as various cultural historical monuments, castles and sacral heritage, and so on. This expression of living heritage does not seem appropriate to us and we suggest that it be an intangible heritage. Also in the English language in which the documents of Icom are written, we are talking about an uncharacteristic or intangible heritage. Nowhere is the expression of living heritage used, and it is supposed to be a Slovenian uniform or term that should be used only for us. After all, the proposal or the Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Insubstantial Heritage also speaks of intangible cultural heritage or intangible cultural heritage. Even in the explanation of the law itself, the proposer, says the Ministry of Culture, has repeatedly used the term immaterial heritage in explanation to emphasize in particular what it represents as a living heritage. Otherwise, the definition of intangible heritage is defined by this Convention as practices, presentations, expressions, knowledge, skills and related tools, objects, products and cultural spaces recognised by communities, groups and individuals as part of their cultural heritage. These are oral traditions and expressions, including language as the bearer of intangible cultural heritage, performing arts, social practices, rituals and celebrations, knowledge and practices concerning nature and space and traditional crafts. Thus, the definition of intangible or intangible heritage is very broad under the Convention, so that we can also include, for example, the gastronomy of a particular country, various knowledge of treatment and so on. I propose that if this amendment is adopted, then, in all the following articles, a corresponding change in living heritage will be made to a intangible heritage. At the end of the day, an amendment of the coalition was also adopted on the home committee, which explicitly speaks of the definition of intangible or intangible cultural heritage as set out in this Convention, which I have quoted earlier. I propose, fellow Members and colleagues, that you support the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u8	Dear Member, we have discussed this name on the committee for quite a long time. Later, we did research on what they call the matter in other countries. I must say that there is no established practice here or that at least European countries do not yet have a legal basis for the designation of such an inheritance, so that in practice the actual appointment varies greatly. Interestingly, however, colleagues in Bulgaria replied that they were using the term "living heritage". In fact, they leaned, as we do, on the title of the program to support this kind of heritage used by Unesco, which is called in English - I apologize for using the English term - living human treasures. From this designation, we, too, propose the designation of a living masterpiece for that part of the inheritance that will be covered by the insurance. So it's actually about us how we define ourselves. It is true that the translation of the Unesca Convention itself speaks of a intangible heritage. So, if we decided to be immaterial, we'd be using a third term here. I think it's crucial not to name an inheritance, but a definition. And this definition, as you yourself have found, is literally summarized in Article 3 under the ratified Unesc Convention. I must say that the Unesc Convention is one of the more successful international treaties in this area, that it has already reached, in a relatively short time, an appropriate number of ratifications and is already being implemented. When this Convention enters into force also for us, after the time limit proposed by the Convention or provided for, Slovenia will be able to participate actively in this activity in the field of UNESCO. Therefore, it seems to me that it is crucial that we adopt the law, as we call it, but it is a matter of agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Scholch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u10	Thank you very much. I will be shorter than we were on the board, and I must say that he also has a secretary of state as well as a colleague of Bevk. At the moment, it is particularly important that, unless there is already a disputed definition, we agree on terminology. Here, however, I think we are in a position to discuss which term is more applicable and more acceptable. Of course it is, we're already going to the edge of what's linguistic, let's say I simplify it, taste. From my point of view and from the point of view of this comparability of terminology, however, it would seem more appropriate for us to find someone else instead of this proposed term alive. I'm sorry, I also think it's immaterial, but I'm going to say less suitable than the ones we're dealing with more. So we could operate on an unfathomable inheritance, or we could even operate on what is considered a spiritual heritage in conversation. We have a material and spiritual heritage or a material and intangible heritage, and I would advocate this kind of dichotomy, the way to a possible changed term, but I am not sure if what I am saying is also vulnerable, that there will be no misunderstandings. The appeal is certainly only through the adoption of this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, this debate shows that in fact the law is not assigned as it should be, because we are somehow stuck in definitions. In fact, both options are acceptable, both a living heritage and an intangible heritage, but there remains one void, as my colleague said before me, and another for my spiritual heritage. After all, if we compare how the Japanese declare it, we also have a living heritage, where some manufacturers of certain types of katana, swords of katana or knives tanto, declare as a living heritage, which is once again another matter. However, we also have here, in Article 3, in the definitions of Article 47 and Article 48, a living heritage and a living masterpiece. Interestingly, the 2000 Rules on the Definition of the Species of Cultural Heritage say that all that is more than 50 years old is cultural heritage. It is said that I too can view myself as a living heritage or a living art. Artefact yes. So perhaps it would be advisable to think about it here, but in time to add even a little more detail about what it is, and perhaps a little more effort can be made. On the other hand, I agree that it might be better to adopt this amendment and then, in one sub-legislative act, to change this matter into a new composition of the new government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I'll turn on the application. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. I agree with what is stated in the law, a living heritage. If we want to change something here or what the amendment proposer proposes, then we certainly are introducing a third definition. Because I am also of the opinion that what is enshrined in the law, as defined by the Unesca Convention, is a intangible legacy. Dr. Janez Bogataj cites what is an unfathomable heritage: gestures and habits, beliefs, legends, brief flexible forms, reading, visual, musical, musical and other activities, heritage of leisure time, sources of knowledge, knowledge of the animal, plant world and knowledge of time, health, technical knowledge, knowledge and behaviour about space, historical consciousness and geographical horizon. 13 fields, and to me this is a living inheritance. I will not support this amendment because I believe that this definition is good and that it should remain in law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u15	Ma'am mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State and others. I take into account all the points of view that would help with the relevant deadline. Unfortunately, however, I cannot agree that the deadline offered in the draft law is appropriate. And I'll try to explain why I don't think he's fit. The word relationship of a living heritage is according to its structure oxymoron. The legacy, however, points to something that is from the past and sowed to the present. And at the moment, I can only understand the living heritage as what I know, which is preserved, which I know at this moment. It's a living heritage. The one I'm carrying through the mouthpiece. But the fact is that much of what is an oral heritage and what shapes our spiritual essence is lost, and perhaps some research trails will once again lurk into our consciousness. For me, the word living heritage is related to some term we know in literary theory, where the living metaphor is that metaphor that survived, which I don't know how many times it used, but it survived, and it is today that it is. This does not mean that this is the whole world of metaphorics, which is covered in Slovenian literature. If I look at the English version from which you have taken over the Slovenian designation there is a fundamental word treasure - treasure, and it does not have a time dimension, because the treasure can also be the treasure of the present time. However, the Slovenian word heritage is related to what has been formed in the past. And since I also know from the language that a hard form is material, and you yourself have written materially, to separate from material all that is not material, you can get a term by adding a nickel that would cover all of this. Now, is this an unfathomable legacy? We have not been able to introduce and propose non-materials here because it is offered as the starting point of material heritage is not offered. Then that would be substantive and insubstantial. Now they're material and immaterial. However, I would like to invite you to think about this amendment and to think about it, because now we have a chance to say how we want to name what is the subject of the law and what is the subject of the definition. That the confusion in the profession, that the naming procedures are very different, gives us in fact enough opportunities to choose our version. I've tried other art fields. What does that mean, live music? Where are these appointments already? Live music, live singing is just what is being done right now, unlike the one reproduced on another sound carrier. I don't know if you wanted to tell me what the subject is. I certainly recommend that the amendment be adopted in such a form now. But it is still an option to find another name, even a spiritual one, why not. But I think she's the least happy living thing we've ever talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u18	Look, the Ministry of Culture is aware of all this confusion about naming, but regardless, once again, I stress, what we will do with this legacy in the future is essential. This is why last year we commissioned, together with the Agency for Research Activities, the production of a research conducted by the Scientific Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, which in particular shows what kind of heritage we have and how to describe it in particular. I must say that they have come, somehow quickly, if I emphasize what is important for our debate here, until this division. One, of course, is the recording of this heritage, which means that they can also describe one that is no longer present between us. But of course, we must give a key emphasis to those who are still alive or who are still alive in our consciousness. By proposing somehow three categories of such heritage: alive, revitalized, it is said, the one that is still in our consciousness and that we can support with certain measures and bring it back between us, then the third is only one that is recorded as a form of the past, but which is only explored. So, too, from this point of view, this term is further justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u20	Dear Presidents, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Whether the term is the same or different, we can open the debate for another 50 hours, and we will still be where we were. In scientific matters, it is very clear that the term must have a definition for itself, and such matters as science or any knowledge, and then confirmed by the profession, are most likely to be the wisest to incorporate into the law. In Slovenian legislation, we obviously have a problem with how much we like to look at what happened in documents outside of Slovenia, whether it is United Nations documents that are normally in English or elsewhere where they have already processed the matter. And because translators are not usually from the profession they process, but are in some way trained or know only the general contractual language, both Slovenian and those from which they translate, we come to get some new calk or internationalism instead of already established, which is accepted in Slovenian, which is clear, which is generally useful. So, we get material from an international vocabulary and live from a hip that's out there somewhere. In fact, both exist in Slovenian as both spiritual and material. And I don't see any reason to make any changes with the "no" extension. I think that materially and spiritually, it would encompass everything that exists as an inheritance. The legacy, of course, is not dead because if you were dead, you wouldn't even know about it, but you're still alive. We're talking more about origin than we are, and I think we need to think this through. In Slovenian two already have - we have a spiritual, we have a substance, and I see no reason to invent new terms. It's a sign of primitive languages if someone's afraid that they have their own name for every thing, that they can't have an abstract. And that's how these things need to be understood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. As we discuss this law, we could raise another question of why there is no natural heritage under this law. Finally, in 1927, the general conference of UNESCO adopted the Convention on the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage. And at UNESCO, we have a list of the world's natural and cultural heritage. So, this is another additional dilemma, and I don't think this thing, when it was shared years ago, was well done. We once had institutions for the protection of natural and cultural heritage, because this thing is intertwined, even in the Convention itself, of the protection of intangible cultural heritage, it is said that it is a fundamental and intangible cultural heritage and a natural heritage, that they are interdependent among themselves, so that they can be terminologically said or substantively that this law somehow does not comply fully with these conventions adopted by the UNESCO General Conference. In terms of intangible heritage, however, I would like to say that the proponent that he could even explain what a living heritage is, on the 8th, 9th and 10th pages of the explanation of the law explicitly uses immaterial heritage, talks about, quote, "on the preservation of the intangible" and continues "so-called living heritage" and then goes on to talk about material and then intangible heritage, he says, it is a living heritage and then for the third time on page 10. It is said that they used the term immaterial heritage in the first place to explain what they imagined to be a living heritage. So, I propose that these amendments be adopted, and perhaps in the third reading, then this problem will be finally resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I see that there are no other debaters, so I am concluding the debate on Article 1 and the amendment of the SD Group of Members. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u24	I will briefly try to explain why the amendment to Article 3 needs to be supported. This is an article that speaks about the definitions of cultural heritage, material and intangible as you wish, and, among other things, what archaeology is. What are the archaeological remains talking on Article 3(3) and substantially altering the current ZVKD dictatorship, in short, the law we now have in force. In the definition of archaeology or archaeological remains, some genetics occurred. In fact, in the very draft law, the archeological remnant was defined as being what archaeology is, and see it now in the first part of point 3. The second part, however, spoke of the fact that archaeological remains are also matters related to war and killing. After a public debate, which has taken place here or perhaps before, I do not know, this embarrassment, where it has been directly said that archaeology, that also excavations from cemeteries, postwars, dictions have changed and more calmed or neutralized, and now you have what we have, namely, that archaeological remains are also related to graves determined on the basis of rules on war graves and war, along with archaeological and natural contexts that are underground or underwater for at least 50 years. What has happened to this excessive zeal for the postwar tombs to be plunged into an archaeological heritage? There was a severe anomaly that we did not discuss on the committee last time, and after all there was no interest in correcting the anomalies of this law. Something has happened; Madam Secretary of State, the reference to conventions is unnecessary here because it is up to you, your own country, to determine what the limit is when archaeology, the archeological rest is the object of archaeology - or 50 or 100 years. Even now, the law has the possibility that 50 years is the lower limit. At the same time, you said that you had to put it in because there was no one to worry about archaeology from World War I. That is not true, otherwise we would not have what we have in Kobarid, a museum that may not be taken care of consistently, since the Sabota heritage is not saved as well as it would be. But ZVKD in Article 2 clearly states that World War I and possibly another war, the rest of the war, fall under archaeology. The rules establishing the type of cultural heritage items currently in force also define this. And since I have so little time, I wouldn't quote you. That's enough if you look at Article 2. But now this has happened, in this excitement, that archaeologists will gain control over the excavation of archaeological remains from World War II and postwar beatings, by the way, I do not contest that. It's right that archaeologists are there. I know archaeologists have an interest in them. After all, this foundation, which they had to deal with on the roads and elsewhere, is leaking somewhere, and it's right that they're there. But to leave completely the archaeological remains to archaeologists, from postwar beatings, there may be one major problem that I will try to define briefly in two cases. It is right, as I say, that they are with us, but not that they fully take over this heritage, which can eventually fall under that rule of archaeological ethics, to preserve things and situ, but not to be tolerated there, for example, in this case, in skeletons or anywhere else. But here I don't think it's possible to put this as an archaeological heritage, because then, according to the rules of the profession, it's also a professional process that's passed on to museums. But here at work are mainly forensics, especially criminals, and probably someone else who should define these objects archaeologically by others, forensics and so on. To get to what you're saying with what you're saying, we're looking forward to getting the whole archaeology, but not just doing more control over these objects. It happened that you did one great wrong, because you separated archaeology from that of war and civil origin. And this also defines war as one who has been underwater or underground for at least 50 years. If there's something, say, a non-military plane buried on Barja, say, there's so many years there, then there's no more status of archaeological residue. And here is the discrimination between the present law that makes it possible and the one that you are now mediating for admission. And I hope that it is not in my favor, as I say, that no one will misinterpret it, I do not object to the fact that archaeologists, with their behaviour and knowledge, are necessary in detecting graves or rehabilitating or investigating, but it is not right that archaeological remains are now divided into civil and non-civilities and that those who are under 100 years of age do not come into treatment at all. And what happens? It happens that they will not be protected, that they can be "smuggling" with them and that they can be manipulated. I'm saying you're keen to see that the archaeological remains are within reach for the graves of post-war beatings and others associated with the II. World War I, you came into the realm of archaeology, you led to injustice. As quickly as I can tell, in short, a civilian aircraft that is 60.70 years old or 40 years old will not be an object of archaeology can have this nature, while anything else that can be found, let's say, in a grave like this, will be. And please, if you correct at least, if we delete what we are proposing in Really may not be a completely remedied issue, but if you do not do so, then the discrimination that will have to be corrected once and for all, and please pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u26	Look, Your Honor. What you are proposing would mean that such an inheritance is not granted this basic protection because it is not recognised as an archaeological remnant. This is said not to fall under the obligations provided for by the law in the case of unauthorised interventions or interventions by investors. I'm warning you, this is how we change things. What you're saying was that there was an intention of archaeologists back here, I don't think that fits the actual state. Archaeologists are already working with forensics and others in these works. This cooperation is good and stable. This way, we only give him a better framework. At the same time, this suggestion of yours that, or after that, I correctly understood what is not written in your amendment to extend the definition of archaeological remnants, what is within 50 years to all that is found in the earth, under water or on the surface of the earth. That's what I think would be an overly broad definition. Because in fact, on the one hand there is such a period between 100 and 50 years that virtually everything that is somehow forgotten or lost falls under it, and for most of these matters it is possible either through ownership of the land or how else to identify the owner. So that such an intervention in the private sphere would be too severe and I don't think it makes any sense. Even if it is an aircraft that has accidentally fallen between 100 and 50 years of age or into water or elsewhere, there will be no such damage as it would have been done if archaeologists actually had an interference over everything in the water, on the surface of the earth and in the earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinczych the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I think that this amendment has a reasonable explanation, because it is necessary to realize that even around the world certain areas are simply protected in such a way that, for example, Americans declare them a "national heritage" area, that is to say national heritage. These are, for example, the areas of their battles during their civil war. Then the Americans here have all the military burial sites under this status. So that it might make sense to take this amendment into account, because then the so-called archaeological research in these areas is very, very limited. I'm afraid that this could be where some gentlemen come in and do nice work in these areas of business, according to your own words, what's actually going on in Slovenian. The region of the Soviet front is happy and with great success preying on the main Italians and Czechs. They collect all these artifacts and then sell them on the European collectors' market. In fact, the area of the Soviet front has already been largely looted. And here I'm wondering what our culture inspectorate is doing. Mr. Matič is always so loud when there is something to be done, but he is nowhere; and especially he is not where he should be. The president knows these things even better than I do, because he is from those places and he wrote quite a few books on this subject, so I know what the pain of those endings that are being robbed, where all the specimens of large-scale missiles that we have in Italy in all the museums, and I in Slovenia and there are just some. I think there's one here - I don't know, because I don't even know how this would work out, but I'm sure this solution, which is written in the law, is not the best. And this amendment doesn't work out so well. In short, that's what I don't think the law is good. But, well, we've got this one, we're gonna have to fix it, and we're gonna have to fix these things too. I think it would make sense for the ministry to deal with these matters a little bit, because if we have good definitions, then everything else is much more logical and clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u30	Mrs Pirkovic, there is no doubt that archaeologists should cooperate, but let this not just be their priority, because then the graves will have to fall to that museum treatment that is taking place in all the other archaeological heritage. But what has now happened compared to the previous law, I think this law, which is still in force right now, says that archaeological objects, which are over 50 years old and come from digging up sites and so on, either on land or underwater, have a status of archaeology. And you list, you list everything that is over 50 years old, it says, either documentary material, books, numismatic collections, architecture and so on; all that is 51 years old is the object of archaeological rest and can be perceived as such. Now, by a new definition in this article, you say that everything that is underwater or above the ground is at least 100 years, except for graves where it is 50 years old. And there's going to be a hole between certain objects that you say are still too fresh to have archaeology, but I don't know if that can be judged, otherwise we wouldn't have a current law that says otherwise. At the same time, I warn you that if we want to treat the war graves of World War I and II as archaeological remains and subject them to such treatment, museumly and so on, then it does not have to be specifically defined because it is more than 50 years old. But, by the way - I want to point out the nonconsistency - it is not necessary that deleting this sentence brings a solution, because you still have the possibility that in the first paragraph you can change those 100 years. I warn you that there will probably be a problem that others will be talking about when they meet with her in practice. I'm not talking about the ideological submenu of this sentence, not at all. As I say, to be with them, they are now, they have their skills and skills, but they cannot take over because other professions need to be operated here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I see that there is no more to discuss with this article or with the amendment. That is why I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate article 31 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Article 31 refers to the cultural consensus for research and the removal of heritage. There has been some small talk on this amendment of ours on the committee, but it has been deepened, as I say, not because it has slipped away more or less, even because there has been no greater in-depth in this law. It is, however, an object that has been dealt with here in public debate. Today we have received some, I hope that everyone, comments on what will happen if a specific monument is removed and the Minister will give cultural consent. And we want this to be done, not by giving cultural consent for research and removal, but by adding that it can only be done in the previous opinion of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. The Secretary of State said that this was not a problem because it was already protected in other procedures and the Institute for Cultural Heritage cooperated in this way and so on. That's not true. We have reviewed the laws, including the Construction of Objects Act, and if we do not add our wish or our proposal that the Minister may give such an order, that a particular object be destroyed or removed or treated, without the opinion of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, it may be his will and responsibility so much greater and it is not right that he has it here if he has no profession.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u34	Thank you very much. From the point of view of the competence of the ministry and the services that protect heritage, this is, in fact, a key complement to the amendments that we have tabled. I am thinking even so far if this kind of supplement were not to be adopted that the law, which has many things better regulated than the rules so far, would not support. Why am I saying this? Because in fact, if I radicalize the position, things certainly weren't meant to be that way. In this point, the drafter of the law in fact allows for the possibility for the Minister to abolish virtually every kind of protection, which is built through a variety of procedures, through different professional opinions, the consent of owners, local and wider communities. This is more than a question of consensus to explore the issue of consent to remove the monument. If I'm more plastic, I won't tell you about the pressure of investors on cultural heritage in Ljubljana. You know the various pressures that such a monument may be torn down because it is not worth anything, because the house is in bad condition and so on and in its place builds something pompous, which will bring Slovenia to the map of modern architecture. This is usually a song we listen to when one of the bold investors is headed by some of the older and ruined buildings. The Minister will have the opportunity to remove this protection in his opinion and allow for demolition and other plans. I don't want to talk about the possibility of major manipulation for this kind of discretion. We will never all agree on whether the sugar store is really a big monument if we are to discuss whether the Colosseum is something that is right to protect or break. And the same would apply to any other building. Every time you get someone who's going to be able to build something better instead of such a fancy building. To get back to some situation you all know, this is the situation of this public institution, Lipica. In the situation of the public institution of Lipica, if Minister Simonita had, and now I want to be completely plastic, this possibility given him by this law would in fact have shattered what his client colleagues intended to scatter, made that big golf course if any tree were in its way, certainly today would not be charcoal and smoke. Last but not least, if the architecture were in its way, it could be removed in accordance with ambitious plans of the new Lipice operators. This hides itself as a potential option in this third paragraph and therefore needs to be absolutely restrictive. The protection of heritage is already by its nature an intervention into the rights that someone has over some property in this sense to preserve certain elements and certain values for the future. From this point of view, when things are declared an inheritance, it is necessary to know that this will have enormous consequences, not only for the one who manages and enjoys this heritage, but also for the one who declares it. It will have to be borne in mind that if a State declares something as an inheritance, then it is obliged, to the extent that it restricts the owners to the use of this heritage, to help maintain it, and these elements are all set up in this legislation. This solution, however, to the Minister, where there is a conflict in that he is practically free to remove protection, is something that undermines the purpose of the law in its entirety. The supplement proposed here is not "news" but simply says that if there is already such a situation, it is necessary in this process to give consent to a demolition which is theoretically possible, or to include relevant professional services and thus qualified public in the research. This amendment, I think anyone who wants a good inheritance, I'll say, a calm heart can support. However, the Minister, who will not have this type of instrument in his hands, will be much easier to act on, because he will not least rely on his own judgment and his own taste. We have had culture ministers who have spoken a lot about heritage and have been potentially dangerous from this point of view. It is said that a minister who will have a guardian who can only do so when he has the right opinion of experts will certainly make it easier to decide on such delicate matters as research on heritage sites, rather than disposal. Therefore, this supplement is urgently needed if we are to have this law fulfilled. Otherwise, the minister will always be subjected to the pressure of those who could do, as they say, "something better," or if you remember when the bridge in Mostar fell, the ones who knocked him down said, "It's no problem, we'll make him older and prettier." This leads to such a situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u36	I am surprised that honourable Mr Školč, former Minister, thinks so poorly of the role of ministers in the field of culture. I don't know any ideas about any disruption, not during your ministry or later. The article we're talking about here is two things. One agreement is for archaeological research and disposal, because each archaeological study directly means that this heritage, which is, like the rest, preserved "and situ", is removed. Of course, the regulation so far is such that it gives the Ministry permission for research and removal. This has been the case since the beginning when such an instrument has been introduced into our legal order. This goes back not to 1981, but to the 1961 marriage. And we wouldn't actually be in trouble here because I think that's right. We know that more than once than the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage is the one conducting such research. And it's non-systematic for the Bureau to give itself permission for that. The current law of 1999, which was passed, if I am not mistaken, at the time of your ministry, Mr Školč, in one article says that for research, not archeologically, but general research is given by the institution, which means that the institution itself gives itself research when researching other types of heritage. So far, no one has bothered this article, but I am sure that if someone brought this article to the Constitutional Court, the article would fall down smoothly. Because it is a mixture of two parts, two functions, which must not in any way be combined in one body. The second part, it is said, is now we are talking, if I am not mistaken, about the second paragraph of Article 31. Such arrangements also extend to monuments. Why? Because the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage has issued several permits over the past few years to demolish cultural monuments, which we believe were not justified. In fact, in this case, there was no legal remedy to prevent such a manifest act, since the case had already been implemented immediately and no monument was possible, including the Mostar Bridge, to be placed on a new and better position than it had been before. So this is the only purpose here. It is clear, however, that when it comes to a professional question, the Minister never decides on his own. But for this he has either expert or expert commissions, or his expert institutions, a public service to ask them these matters. And an extra one. Mrs Širca, I do not know how you have seen the Construction Act, but in Article 3, quite at the beginning, says that the removal of the facility is considered a building intervention and that it is necessary to have a building permit for it. Every building permit, when it interferes with an inheritance or a monument, requires a prior condition and the consent of the co-consentor, that is, in our case, the Institute for Cultural Heritage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinczych the Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary mentioned two laws, from 1961 and 1981. Well, despite these two laws, the medical resort in Rogaška collapsed, which was strictly protected not to mention other matters. In short, it happens that many times these laws are not respected and the damage is done. I think it makes sense that the Minister doesn't have such an open mandate to decide autonomously what goes wrong and what doesn't go wrong. Because I think it's only reasonable to keep an eye on this, but again I wonder if it's appropriate that it's the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Because it is true that the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage has also allowed the destruction of a whole range of cultural monuments. In short, there is once again one thing in this area that this law does not regulate and will not settle. Although he says it's a law on the protection of cultural heritage, but I don't know, we're protecting it in a strange way. Therefore, at the very beginning, already in the Slovenian National Party, we say that the law is not good. But okay, let's move on! On the other hand, it is true that the Minister will now be able to decide on certain demolitions. But who says, not for this minister, but for what future minister, that the minister, who will not have, say, sticky hands, will be willing, for certain financial benefits, to tear down the sugar plant, and to do so over the bridge, as were the plans, or to tear down the Coliseum, and there to make a huge new column, which is "for vomit" - they would tear down one and only building in Europe and do so, because some gentleman with foreign, Austrian money is waving around, wants to build something there. And it could happen that we're gonna run into a minister who's just gonna do it. After all, there are many such cases in Slovenia. Ricky's villa on Bled, too, this thing is going to collapse once, in a short time - and then what? In addition, let us look at this adulterous Ljubljana opera that we made out of it. After all, the cultural monument was also the hall of the Ljubljana Opera. There's nothing left now. Now we have practically four, not even four, three walls, but a void inside. And we're going to do in there like they did in Mostar -- even better, even older bridge and even more beautiful than it was back then. And now in Ljubljana we will also have an even newer, even more beautiful and older opera house. Instead of taking matters differently and preserving, restoring that building and building something new. I think it makes sense that the Minister doesn't have his own word, but on the other hand, I don't know how sensible it is to give a decision to the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which has also done a whole lot of stupidity and mistakes, not to use any more harsh expression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u40	See, the proposal of the law restricts this discretionary right that the institution has if your amendment is accepted or the Minister restricts because it specifies exactly under which conditions such consent can be granted. More than that, for the first time, it is a serious threat, such longevity and damage, which cannot be cured otherwise, or this would be absolutely impossible from different angles of view, and if the monument was for sale before that day - see the second indent - at a price that takes into account its bad condition. So such an example as the Colosseum would mean that if someone says that the Colosseum is in such a poor condition that it cannot be restored, this poor condition of construction expert must be assessed and put on the market at that price. I am convinced that such a price cannot take into account the value of land, which is in fact what such speculators imagine they will gain by doing so. And even more, even in another article, I don't know exactly, we have a provision that says that an alternative measure can be implemented. I think that this is somehow also announced in paragraph 6 of the same Article, and then this interim measure is more precisely defined in a specific article. Which, of course, also means that such an investor who would like to speculate must be executed or may be ordered to carry out a replacement measure. In any case, however, the establishment as a professional service oversees such removal. Finally, I think that, if we are already weighing whether it is better to give this right to the institution or to the minister, it is better for someone who is loved, who can, in future elections or also through interpretation, with other mechanisms, be responsible directly for such decisions than for leaving it to a institution that we know is extremely difficult to control.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u42	What have we heard now? That there is a great deal of distrust for the institution, which has in the past already agreed to the demolition of the monuments and because these consents for the demolition of the monuments were not the right thing to do, let the Minister do so now, who has the right measure and will be advised by the expert team, which we will then meet in the next article, which will be home to a public institution whose founder will be the minister. The minister should be trusted, even if he removes the teams from the exhibition, if we remember the statue of Jožet Pučnik, but at the same time we take the institution, which is already a priority, as one that protects or underprotects and creates in some way violence against heritage, but not. I point out that even in Article 28, there is a very open possibility that it can interfere with a monument, indeed when something threatens, but there are also safeguards or safeguards to remove monuments without supervision and professional position. It's right here. Let's not talk about compensatory measures. It is not difficult for some cultural heritage that is unprofitable and in a valuable place or whatever it is that it upsets and gives appetite to investors, to break for a reason, because the minister will say that it can, because it threatens and is excessive and inappropriate, and then by compensatory measures, that is to say, by paying for this removal. By what criteria? What is one cultural heritage worth, or can it be measured? And after all, it is not difficult for someone who has already been so vehemently and by his will with good manipulations to intervene in, say, Ljubljana space and has money to give some compensatory measure or somewhere else to build something as described in paragraph 31 below. In short, on the one hand, the Institute for Cultural Heritage is often strict and perhaps someone thinks it is conservative when it stands on the point of feeding and protecting. There may be more openness in the world. But, mistrusting him in this way, rather than developing his openness and sensitivity to contemporary interventions and feeding cultural heritage, especially architectural ones, we cannot say: 'It is a lack of confidence, but let us trust the minister,' which we know, in any case, by its taste and will, because the professional elements are not necessarily that they have, but have political - we do not trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u44	Well, I wouldn't be coming back when I was in the Ministry, so I could talk about it because it has nothing to do with it. That's why I'm going to say it's so much easier and more qualified to talk about potential pressures. But the supplement proposed here does not bring this dilemma: either the minister or the institution. I also did not trouble myself with the Minister's consent to the research or to remove the monument. The supplement is simply a solution when the Minister must obtain the opinion of the Institute for the Protection of Natural and Cultural Heritage or for the protection of cultural heritage before taking this decision. I don't know what the issue here is that the Minister will get an appropriate opinion before his decision. However, there is no possibility to make a declaration in all the procedures for the declaration without valorising the monument properly and with the necessary services. That's why I'm going to say this is where the secretary of state is deceiving. This is simply about the Minister committing himself to obtaining an appropriate opinion. No "dispute" but no one takes responsibility for the decision. What I'm talking about is that if he doesn't, he doesn't get that opinion, he drops all the weight of the decision on him, and he can take all these arguments like that peacefully -- and I'm not going back to the Collision. The conflict is, for example, the case where the Ministry acted, in my opinion, as an observer, is appropriate. The question is, how long will this hold up? But take, say, the case of an object in Kranjska Gora where there was no formal protection. It was the modern architecture of the architect Lajovac, where all these arguments applied, if this is not capable of reconstruction, is not viable and it has been peacefully removed. It is true that I am using a case where the Ministry of Culture has no responsibility, but if I took some initiatives to protect modern architecture, then Slovenia could also be a tourist and cultural destination because of modern architecture. In France, people go to look next to old castles and churches and modern architecture. With us, the Minister does not have the power to protect and protect modern architecture, as we discussed earlier, for an important heritage. That's why she can be treated the way she wants to be. This supplement shall be without prejudice to the powers of the Minister, not by any means whatsoever. It is better than for the institution itself to do so, that no one has disputed, except for the secretary of state, that the minister or the legislator from the government only demands that we have one more opinion in this opinion. And I cannot understand that, however, I will again be personal, as Mrs State Secretary has tried to be, that a person has devoted his whole life to work in these institutions for the protection of cultural heritage so that he can "dispute" that this opinion is important in the decision of the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Have a nice hello to you all. Minister Vasko Simoniti, if he's not back yet, is still in France. Perhaps he too will draw up something of this inspiration that the forerunner spoke of. True, none of the laws are so good that they cannot be even better. However, this changes and complements in line with social changes. However, when we talk about the article 31 and the proposal of the Zares Group that in the third paragraph, the word "minister" should be added to the word "according to the previous opinion of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage", I have to react in this sense, because also some of the things we experience in our place, in this beautiful Slovenia, I also experience in the oldest Slovenian city in Ptuj or on Ptuj - both say that it is right. Well, it is very likely that if this were to determine the law that is being dealt with today following the amendments, and it had gone through all the procedures before, only the referendum had not yet been held, then I must say that it would probably not have happened what happened in or on Ptuj when the protected villa fell. The villa had to be demolished because of the interests of commercial capital. What's priceless is you can't build this anymore, not the older or the younger when it's broken, it's ruined. At least such a good architect of this unique monument will not put him in the same condition as he was in his natural beauty. Which actually makes me feel like I have to react. When I look at and think about this proposal from the Group of Members, I really have something very important coming to me. Don't you think the reason for what you're suggesting is somehow simple? In many cases, the institution appears as an operator of such research. Therefore, it seems to me that in this function, as the Secretary of State has already mentioned, it would be for the purpose of mixing two public service tasks, both administrative and executive. And I believe that this is precisely the provision proposed by the proposer in this third paragraph of Article 31, but he wanted to protect that because he had a flaw in the past. And, of course, in the proposed form of the Zares Group in the SDS Group, we cannot support such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I think we are quite some interesting and up-to-date questions, but as far as content is concerned, we are born, whether we do not know, we do not know the whole of what legislation we have, or maybe sometimes we are transposing. Let's go in a row, there are three things. First of all, the building law is mentioned. Indeed, in preparing this law, and also in the final text, we have also taken into account the fact, and I can say this, at the special request of our fellow Member, Mr Presečnik, who is a builder and drew attention to the things that are in Slovenia, on the main highways, when they are just along the road, for example, breaking houses. They simply could not be removed, whether there was no owner or anything else. It's a disaster. Somehow, however, it was necessary to bring this into law under certain professional supervision in order to resolve such problems. So that we don't watch for another hundred years how this house will finally fail, when even the bricks are no longer left, but it will still be seduced in the land book as a house, building, building or anything. That was the main instinct. And we also had a case of a hotel in Kranj. It's a disaster, it's dangerous, everybody's got to fight to get rid of something, but it didn't work. And that's what we were trying to get into the building law, that was the main intention. Another time. We have heard that modern architecture should also be protected somehow. Yes, as I recall, dear colleagues, we are just the end of the previous mandate on the initiative - Mrs Shirca, you will remember, you were the main advocate, but I do not want to criticize anything, I just want to say that we have adopted a law that speaks of intellectual protection of architectural solutions. We've accepted that. Now I'm going to tell you what that means. That means we can't tear down any more buildings. A concrete example: on 9 August 2004, in Slovenian Konjice, there was a catastrophic hailstorm that practically knocked down our modern school, which was built with self-contribution in the 1960s. The school was to be broken, we all agreed, from the mayor, the municipal council, the inhabitants, the teachers, even if you want, the representatives of the ministries, the government - to break. But the architect said, "No, because it's my intellectual property, I won't let you do that." And then what was the solution? Because there was some modern solution, some pillars and then some plates around, those columns had to stay, but we had to make the plates again to last only 30 years. But they were all alone, so it'd be best if we just tore it down. That's what that law means. And, a colleague who discussed it earlier, that means that this modern architecture is as protected as a nomadic bear, so that it does us harm. I had no comment on this law at the time. I don't know if I supported him or not, I don't know how to tell you this, but I know he was adopted, and I also know who was defending him. Mrs Shirca, this is where you've been sitting, at this end, and I remember well that you've been defending this. I'm not going to say that you thought there was anything wrong with us, but at the end of the day, the implementation of this law is catastrophic. Catastrophe! It's said that without the architect's consent, you can't break it anyway. You can't, even if it's too bad it can't be bigger. That's a fact. By discussing it, it's a waste of words. Now what we have also opened to the content of this amendment is whether the Minister is the right person or the right person who decides that a matter can eventually be broken. I'll put it in practice. Let's put ourselves in the role of minister - whether the minister is more real or the institution is one who gives another consent or some "hegen" so that one thing can eventually be broken. For I represent this view that I am even a little afraid that this is too conservative a solution that will never fail. I'm asking you, what kind of minister is he going to hope to bring down a matter? I don't know what kind of consent he's going to get to say, "Okay, now I'm going to give my consent to break this." For a simple reason, the next day you can collect so many signatures and require interpolation, because you've let me crash, I don't know how fantastic a building that doesn't matter, but in fact it's all worth one fig. This is certainly the fear of a minister who has very large eyes and I am sure it will be too conservative. From this point of view, I fear this solution - otherwise I support it - to be too conservative, too conservative to be too conservative where it should be cut, but it will hardly be hoped. As for the institutions, I'm going to ask you, which department director can anyone take away? Not at all. I don't say, I don't mean any person in particular, I speak generally, quite practical. Who's going to replace one of the directors of the plant, who? There's no god to replace him! That's what I'm saying, theoretically speaking -- I'm not talking about a name that we won't get it wrong -- he can afford what he wants. Theoretically. That is, if we're talking about protection, then it's 100 times more protected if the Minister decides to do so. Or even so, I'll say, it's never almost going to fail, or it's not likely, that's the facts in terms of our reality, but in terms of our legislation, I'm not criticizing anything, and I'm not bragging anything, I'm just putting myself in the reality that it is. So if we want something not to be removed, let's give it to the minister. It will never be removed, so we will even have problems! And on this side, I have my doubts, because it's too strict for the Minister to make a decision, because then it's almost impossible. But, well, let's say we're guardians of cultural heritage, then this is the best possible solution, and that's why I won't back the amendment. I would like to say again, because I may have spoken very concretely about what anyone could do, I did not think of any person, I was only speaking in general, in terms of the reality of the legislation that is in force. It's probably very similar in other countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u50	In view of what the Secretary of State has said and what the Members have said, it is more than clear that the Minister cannot decide without an opinion. For every four years, will we have a different policy of maintaining cultural heritage and a different policy of removing heritage? This is wrong, so I'm going to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Mikolitch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. I do not see anything problematic in Article 31, but in general that the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage would be deprived. Speaking of cultural monuments, you've all talked about the so-called building cultural heritage. If you want to remove an object, another law plays the most important role, the Construction Act, what the Secretary of State has already mentioned. And if you want to get a building permit from an administrative unit, which you also have to do, you have to get a building permit for demolition, an investor needs if I can call it that, or a destroyer, the consent of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. We haven't changed anything about that. That was before, in the old marriage, and that's what's left of it. It means that it will have to obtain consent from the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Those who are trained in this institution will certainly prepare professional grounds or analysis, or research, to which this law is also bound, whether it can be broken or not. And on that basis, they will either give their consent or they will not betray it. Probably after what's written here, they won't make their own decisions, and probably the minister will have a word in between. That's not a big deal right now, what's written down here. Where this is not a building cultural heritage, I do not imagine that the Minister will give his consent without obtaining professional grounds from the professional services. Will the minister go to the field and look at the matter there and say it could collapse? I can't imagine. And in the previous opinion, what you're proposing - I don't know. If someone has nothing better to say, I could say that the opinion is binding or unbinding. And we all know that. Once again, as it seems practical, I wanted to present the matter here. And that we, by what is written here, have given the minister some new powers or that he will make an autonomous decision about a matter, is not written anywhere. As there is a need for authorisation in all these matters relating to cultural monuments from the point of view of the removal of these objects. This is also the case with another law that clearly defines who the consentor is. I have no argument to support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u54	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Good-bye! I think that this amendment makes perfect sense, because the Minister himself cannot be the one who will be the chief judge of what will happen to cultural heritage: whether he stays or is removed. Since in most cases you've all commented on this a little bit wider, let me also talk about my vision. Cultural heritage, I come to sea work alone, cannot and must not only be protected by some passage in the law. And this is also happening today in this law that we are in fact simply introducing some administrative and technical standards, administrative and legal procedures and some protection. Where are the country's financial transfers to ensure the preservation of cultural heritage? If Austria were to do as we do with its cultural heritage, today Vienna would not be as it is. You know, property is an obligation, and there's a lot of people who don't have money to rebuild what we decided was a culturally protected area. And the state should help if it is concerned with cultural heritage and the preservation of this cultural heritage, but that is not the case. We can prescribe and say, it's a cultural monument or a protected area. I myself can talk about individual houses in Crassus, which have excellent, beautiful portons, stones that lie by the road today or somewhere in the grass because they have collapsed. The country didn't do anything about it. I think that subsidies in this area should be a regular practice and help to all those who want to preserve what our ancestors have left us, even for craftsmen, should be a necessity. And this should be followed by this law, not just by a follow - up, but by a new monument or not. In this article 31, if we allow it without an amendment, if we basically generalise the matter a little bit, the minister will also be able to tear down the monuments. Monuments, if it's from the right, left, if it's from the left, because today we're already putting monuments to the invader, and probably the ones. This is what this marriage will bring without this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u56	It's amazing how much it hurts. An opinion of pain, which is not dangerous, an opinion that is not binding, an opinion that is an expression of profession. That hurts. In this hall we listened two years ago when the protection of a certain cultural heritage was thrown out of the law - and the minister can do so - the Lipica Act, when the protection of a certain area of the objects was thrown out, was said, why some houses there are made out of cardboard. And they were, like, far away from it. But you are in all your papers, in all your acts, in all your performances, with all your back. The Congregation for the Republic, intellectuals around the New Journal, spoke about identity, about cultural national identity. Part of you is also protected through the protection of cultural heritage. This should now, if we give the Minister the opportunity to help the profession, possibly be more professionally protected. No! No! But that's not, that's not, and after we've just celebrated the year of Jože Plečnik and when we've stood up the most about how it's necessary to protect cultural heritage, which, at the same time, is hampering development and those who have construction, and why we wouldn't have the chance to say that this is what I think it is. The minister does this and also throws a statue he doesn't like, even though it's a statue of Jožet Pučnik. The Minister, any one, can do so, whether in the future or in the past, and it is right that he is protected by an opinion presented by the profession. But what's bad, and I hope that all institutions for cultural heritage hear that today, is that you don't trust them. To say they're so protected that even the director can't be replaced there because they're bears. The Institute for Cultural Heritage, which reflects heritage if it is too harsh, if it is unprofessional, if it does not take into account development, for example, more advanced or less conservative views, then it is another thing; then it deals with it. And I tell you that institutions deal with this, think about where the line is between protection and openness, that some object, when we talk about architecture, can experience modern transformations. The world knows that. But if you didn't have professional views to this extent developed as it does, then Slovenia would look worse today, you would collapse the pillars that maybe someone -- not an expert, clearly -- don't like them, or they don't like them, because a profitable facility would be built there if you wanted some mayor, maybe some minister, maybe some merchant and so on. Let's have this, let's develop a profession, let's open her eyes, if it's possible that she's too committed to her views that she has to be the way she is, but otherwise today we wouldn't have any Steinjel, but even though the locals have to have small windows, let's say we wouldn't have a lot of objects that keep some memory; and we need that memory.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u57	Thank you very much. And Mr. Mikolitch. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u58	Thanks again for saying that. Mrs Shirca, I do not know whether you do not understand or will say you do not want to understand that no cultural heritage object, which is a cultural monument, can be destroyed without the consent of the institution for the protection of cultural heritage. Without the consent of the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. That's what I was talking about. And not just now, on average, talking about how everything is going to go down because this law that we're considering today says that "a security agreement for research and removal is issued by a minister." Which has absolutely nothing to do with what's written in the O.G.I. That's because it's written in an O.G.I. Must be respected. However, in this case, the institution will probably have to talk to the Ministry, which I agree with - or the Minister. In order not to see what some Members have said here today, but in some cases, in the past, the institution has also softened too much and given some agreement that something has been removed, which was not the best in terms of protecting cultural heritage. That's what I used to talk about. And that's true. Don't get all carried away here and explain certain other things, which has absolutely nothing to do with some of us here, who don't support your amendment, so that the culturals should just collapse as someone remembers. I am the first to do this or because I am also the mayor of the municipality, in which we have a lot of limitations in terms of natural heritage, and especially in terms of cultural heritage, which often presents a certain obstacle to certain development possibilities. But we always respect that, and we will respect that in the future. And we have always decided on the basis of what we have done in the area around us, in an influential area, that we have respected the opinion or consensus that we have always had to gain from the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage and the institution will carry out this task, as it has done so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 79 and the amendment of the Common Law of the Member States. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u60	When it comes to an opinion that is being drawn up in accordance with the amendment, we want to create an additional guardian to decide not only on the adoption of spatial acts or on the Ministry, but on the previous work done. It is true that in the Construction Act, cultural heritage is protected here or in spatial acts needs an opinion, but let me remind you that in the Construction Act you refer to the law in force. However, this law no longer has those guards that we are enforcing here, which is why this provision has to be introduced here. All articles of the Construction Act work in a protective manner, but if we do not give a preliminary opinion here, then there will be no more protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 32 and the amendment of the SD Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Zares Group. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I still have a minute at my disposal. On this occasion, let me say that the museum profession has tried primarily to have a separate law on museums following the example of an archival law or a law on librarianism. The museum profession continues to have this desire. With regard to article 92, we agree that we would have a mobile heritage service, but that it would be organised differently, not in one of the state museums, on the basis of a call for tender, but that it would be a special or independent service and an independent public service [[End warning sign]] which would be within the Ministry of Culture and where there would also be representatives of the profession in this world. I'm afraid I'm running out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u64	The dilemma as to where to set up a ministry for movable heritage and museums was at the public debate, but also at the same time [[The material is huge.]] the most disgruntled. You have solved, I don't understand why, this service that will give opinions that will be defined on the issues addressed by this law, in a public institution that deals with completely different matters. Now, this public office - you will choose it yourself - will carry out an additional service and not only be in conflict with your own interests, but also in a totally unclear position. A service that will also be an expert in thinking, say, about the status of cultural heritage or something else, about rules and so on - I will not list everything that is written in article 92 - but it will be a service where it will not be clear to whom it will be subordinated: either to its director or minister. How will this profession be placed in which museum? Above all, it will have to be absolutely loyal to the founder, which is the Ministry of Culture or Government. Absolute nonsense when the independence of professional opinions breaks and when an anomaly is established that will not be of benefit - this is what it is - and will create conflicts. We are proposing a completely independent, separate service defined through the National Council for Movemental Heritage and Museums - we define how this world is composed, is independent, it is ensured that one member proposes SAZU, one University, the Slovenian Museum Society, the Community of Museums - in short, all those who participate actively and professionally in the thinking on this topic and how it is organised. What you have said, Madam Secretary of State, is that there is too much responsibility for such a council to determine what your law, whose tasks it is intended to carry out, is not true. The advisory role can also be played by the properly defined Council, the National Council for Movemental Heritage and Museums, perhaps like the National Council for Culture. In short, solve the case that we are proposing, perhaps even in the way proposed by Bevk alone, but do not let any para-service act that will be very important: it gives opinions, sets out views and also defines funding in some way indirectly to the Minister, who will be in a completely illogical relationship and irregular relationship, and above all will not be independent. And that's the key. Your law obliges the government to either neglect the profession or arrange it and put it in its own office.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u66	Thank you very much. See, the proposer has been asking for a long time about how to resolve and place this job, which the museum profession wanted to put into law. We have two conflicting positions here before us. Any position can have some good things, and perhaps some bad things. We are convinced that neither one position nor the other does solve this basic problem. It is said that the National Council can only be a consultative body, meeting not regularly, several times, but only if necessary. But we need a support service that works continuously, which is its primary task, not that it is some additional task for people who are already employed elsewhere. The proposal of the Social Democrats to establish an independent service within the Ministry of Culture is also contradictory to themselves, as we know that each body in the composition is directly subordinate to the Ministry. We do not see any reservations that such a service is placed in one of the national museums. There is a procedure to determine how this national museum will be determined and, of course, the amendment of the founding act will also be satisfied that such a service will work properly and independently so that there will be no conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 95 and the amendment of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u68	This is not a chapter for one minute, dear advocates of provincial law, dear mayors and dear saints. Know that you will need to create new museums in your own places. The country will tell you under what conditions and how long you will last. These are mandated museums, for which we do not know what standards they will have, but above all they will be able - perhaps the law will also be so adopted and will not have any protectors, what standards they must defend in their own place - are very much at risk. An extremely dangerous and delicate question, I think the best is solved. This is where the profession literally freaks out.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Since I see that there are no debaters, then I conclude the debate and put Article 106 into the debate and the Amendment of the Zares Group. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u70	This problem isn't in 30 seconds either, but it's very big, it's also difficult. After all, the state will come to a new conclusion, it will be able to conclude with large owners, say, with the Church, a contract where it will implement and the state will co-finance it. We say that he should do it on his own account if he wants, as it was meant at the beginning, when you started preparing the marriage, and then someone obviously noticed why the state wouldn't pay if he could.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 135 and the Amendment of the Zares Group. Mrs. Shirca. You're out of time. If you're quick.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u72	Authorised museums will be left to local, provincial and other interests in the future. In order not to fall into their standards and not to be worse, and not to be worse in future regulation, we want them to at least keep the standards, because for a particular local environment and landscape [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Since there are no other debaters, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on Friday, 1 February 2008, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION OF AREAS AND THE NAME AND LABELLING OF RESULTS, STREETS AND STATES, The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. Since I don't see any government representatives at this point right now, I'm breaking up. No, we're coming. [[...]] Let's wait a minute, two. Continue with the interruption of the 5th item of the agenda. I give my word to the government's representative. Mr Aleš Seliškar, Director General of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u74	Thank you. By means of the Law on the Designation of Areas and the Designation and Labelling of Settlements, Streets and Buildings, we want to regulate certain unclear procedures for identifying and modifying the names and areas of settlements and streets. So far, these procedures have been regulated by the Law on the Designation and Registration of Settlements, Streets and Buildings of 1980. Due to the wide differences in decision-making in local self-government, the application of the rules of the previous social system has caused major problems. The main solutions and improvements to the new law are in particular to ensure the active participation of all citizens and legal persons affected by the changes; that the process of changing the areas of settlements is regulated when the municipal border is changed in the procedure for regulating the municipal border under the Real Estate Registration Act [[small changes in municipal borders]] . The law aims to preserve the cultural heritage represented by Slovenian geographical names and ensures that all new names of settlements and streets are properly recorded. It is prevented from doubling the new names of settlements in Slovenia when they are called new settlements or new names of settlements. Uncertainties regarding the determination of house numbers to buildings have been addressed. The proposal for a law is also in line with the provisions of the amendments already adopted to the law on residence registration. Despite some new rules, the law will not make any changes. The new rules apply only to the designation of new names of settlements and streets. The only changes that the municipalities will have to make within 2 years of the entry into force of the law are the renamings of settlements that have the addition of "parts" on behalf of the settlement. It is the settlements that were divided when new congregations were formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr Petan, President of the Committee, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Environment and Space considered the proposal for a law on a specific area and the designation and labelling of settlements, streets and buildings, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sent to the National Assembly in the ordinary legislative procedure. Representatives of the proposed law and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly took part in the meeting. Written opinions were forwarded to the proposed law by the Law-Legal Service, the Pomurska, Hungary Self-Governmental National Community, the Coastal Self-Governmental Community of Italian Nationality, the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Municipality of Murska Sobota. In the introductory explanation of the articles of the bill, the proposer's representative pointed out that the proposed law addressed the shortcomings that had emerged in the implementation of the current 1980 law. In particular, everyone concerned is now actively involved in the appointment and labelling of settlements, streets and buildings. The draft law lays down rules for the establishment and designation of a settlement area. This is based on the fact that the territory of the State is already divided into settlements with its names, so the proposal for a law is prepared so as not to change or change the procedures for renaming simply because of the adoption of a new law. However, the proposal for a law governs the modification of the areas and designations of only those settlements that were shared in the establishment of new municipalities. The bill seeks to preserve the historical and cultural tradition of the appointment of settlements and that the name of the settlement is in the correct Slovenian language. In terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly commented on a number of articles of the bill. The representative of the service said at the meeting of the Committee that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups followed the comments of the service, except for Article 27. It noted that the provision of Article 27, paragraph 7, of the proposed law, whereby the procedure for determining the house number is not an administrative procedure, was legally contested. However, irrespective of this provision, it is not possible to avoid an administrative dispute. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environment and Space held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. In doing so, he also accepted his amendments to Articles 9, 24 and 30. The Committee on the Environment and Space, after having discussed the individual articles of the draft law and after having concluded the debate and the vote on the amendments in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. In the light of the amendments adopted, a draft law on the designation and labelling of settlements, streets and buildings, which is also an integral part of the report of this Committee, is prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Members, Members, representatives of the Government. The Law on the Designation of Areas and on the Designation and Labelling of Settlements, Streets and Buildings is at least at first sight part of a group of laws that regulate a less important and attractive area, but still touch each one of us. Citizens and citizens have their permanent residences registered on a specific house number and this is located in a particular street or settlement. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, it seems most important to us that the proposal for a law in terms of the cooperation of the inhabitants is sufficiently democratic in regulating the procedures for changing the area or the appointment of a settlement and the appointment of streets, notably with the Institute of Pre-Consultation. This bill also eliminates one of the major shortcomings of the current law since 1980, which did not allow for the active participation of all those affected by the changes. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we also welcome one of the starting points of the bill that geographical names are an important part of Slovenian cultural heritage and that it is necessary to protect traditional local geographical names that have a long-term usage tradition, as well as if they are duplicated. We also think it is appropriate that the Commission participates in the establishment of the name of the settlement or in the renaming of the settlement in its opinion in order to standardise geographical names, which will ensure that all the names of settlements and streets are written in accordance with the rules of the Slovenian Book Language. However, much more sceptical in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we have assessed the way in which the Government intended to prevent the doubling of the names of settlements, especially due to the possible interpretation that all existing duplicate names should be renamed back. This was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service and stated that such a change would entail an immediate organisational and financial burden for municipalities, state authorities and, above all, a great deal of regulation of matters for natural and legal persons in relation to the regulation of both business and official communications. In this case, the ruling coalition only listened to the warnings and, with the appropriate amendments in second reading at the meeting of the parent committee, corrected the legal text so that the law would not affect the existing situation. The dispute also seems to us to be a provision under which the procedure for determining the house number is not an administrative procedure. We are particularly disturbed by the fact that there is no legal remedy or judicial remedy against the collection of the home number. On the other hand, we understand the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia in order to avoid a number of lawsuits that would require the immediate appointment of a more favourable home number, but we believe that the procedure for determining the house number should be an administrative procedure. As it all appears, we will have to be satisfied with the finding of the Legal and Legislative Service that the notification of the award or refusal of the award, as well as in particular the abolition of the house number for the administrative act within the meaning of the law governing the legal dispute, and that an administrative dispute against such an act is also allowed. At the end of our position, we would like to draw attention to a related area that is not governed by special law. This is the area of the appointment and renaming of major infrastructure facilities and buildings, which are primarily owned by the public or by the public-private sector. This area is called for by special legislation which would lay down sufficiently democratic and transparent rules on appointments or designations. Just remember the complications of the appointment of the toll station Videž, two decades of bad will with the name of the former Ljubljana-west toll station and the turbulent public political and professional controversy when the airport was renamed Brnik. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are convinced that a democratic society needs such a law. And in the end, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will support the proposal for a law on the designation and designation of settlements, streets and buildings, because we believe that it is well enough and democratic to govern the area of 6,000 settlements, 10,000 streets and 508,000 house numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Martin Mikolič has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! In New Slovenia, we believe that the proposed law is important in two aspects: the first, the more technical, and the second, which is of a more substantive nature. Firstly, the law updates and improves regulation in the area of space. The identification of areas and the designation and labelling of settlements, streets and buildings have significant implications for both the local population and the wider community. It is therefore important that everyone involved in the area of spatial decision-making is involved. The law also makes sense of jurisdiction. Most are in municipal hands and national level is involved in matters that are not only of local importance. All of this represents a safeguard mechanism so that changes in space do not take place in favour of some partial interests and against the will of the local population. We also welcome the inclusion of mechanisms to monitor the implementation of this law and sanctions for offences in the law. We express the hope that this will also be carried out consistently. Secondly, the law is important in terms of preserving Slovenian cultural heritage through the name of settlements and street names. In Novi Slovenija we want to highlight the provisions on the content of the name of settlements and streets, because this is an important matter from the point of view of national and national history, culture and language. The law provides that the settlement shall normally be named by geographical name and may also be named by name related to the history and cultural tradition of the settlement. Streets may, however, be named after a geographical name, the name of an event or a date related to history, by a person who has made a significant contribution to the development of a settlement or is important in a wider social environment, or by cultural tradition. So culture is not just on stage, and history is not just in books. In this regard, in New Slovenia, we stress the need to strike a balance between preserving the past on the one hand and socio-political development on the other. What does that mean? Of course, we do not advocate the principle that, after the end of a period of time, traces of this should also be erased from the street tables, but we advocate that, after careful consideration and judgment, space should be made on these tables also for people and events that were crucial to our people and perhaps even to Europe and the world. There were few of them, so there is no reason for the names of some to be duplicated, while for the names of others, perhaps more deserving, there is no room. We also advocate the use of Slovenian in principle in the use of names, while preserving the diversity of words and traditional designations. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that the bill contains very necessary and good solutions, both technically and substantively, and that we will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Josip Bajc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representative and representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Colleagues and colleagues, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware that since the amendment of the Law on the Designation and Registration of Settlements, Streets, Buildings and Rules in this area there have been many social changes and there have also been difficulties and uncertainties in the implementation of regulations in this area. The Republic of Slovenia has committed itself to respect all United Nations resolutions, including those in the field of geographical names. Resolutions clearly define the need for States to prevent the duplication of geographical names within their territory through a well-established standardisation process. However, the key reason for the new law is to remedy some of the shortcomings that have proved to be in practice since 1980. The appointment process at local level under the competence of the local self-government communities is unclear and unregulated. The relationship between the self-governing local communities and the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia has not been precisely defined. The names of the municipalities and the names of the settlements where the municipality is located are not uniform and the possibility of duplication of names is relatively open. Problems have arisen in the determination and elimination of house numbers and the remaining issues of labelling of black buildings have been resolved. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposal for a new law whose main objective is to harmonise the actual and recorded situation. We also agree that certain cases may be dealt with differently by the municipalities if this does not go against the uniformity of state regulation and thus the legality of the criteria and procedures for the designation or designation and official records. The draft law also lays down rules for the establishment and designation of a settlement area. However, it is based on the fact that the territory of the country is already divided into settlements with their names on it. It is also clear that all settlements must have a name and that there must be no two settlements with the same name in the congregation. It will be a little more difficult to comply with the provision that the name of the new settlement or the new name of the settlement must differ from the name of other settlements in the Republic of Slovenia. The bill also states that street marking is the cost of municipalities because it is a typical local matter, under its jurisdiction. Tables with house numbers, name of settlements or streets are obliged to carry and finance owners or users of buildings. It seems important to us that the affected public also participates in the process of identifying areas and the names of settlements and streets. We are implementing the principle of democracy by means of this law, and that is why we will also support the draft law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Yelen has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. Honourable Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government. The designation and designation of settlements, streets and buildings in Slovenia is subject to one of the oldest laws, the Designation and Registration Act of 1980. This is already the reason, and even more so the change in the system of public administration in the context of Slovenia's independence and taking into account centuries of experience in the implementation of the law in order to change regulation in this area. The Government has therefore already incorporated a new law into the work programme for 2006, which is expected to update the work of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia and other participants in the introduction and implementation of the legislation in the new Real Estate Registration Act. We have this proposal for a law today in the National Assembly. In the DeSUS Group, we consider this proposal to be appropriate, quality and appropriate for today's time and situation in the Slovenian space. Above all, we are pleased that the provisions also express concern for the preservation of cultural heritage, represented by Slovenian geographical names. Members of the DeSUS will be supported by a complementary bill. We are disturbed by the only provision of the proposal, namely that the proposal expressly provides that the procedure for determining the house number is not an administrative procedure. This provision is also subject to concerns by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and has also been discussed at the meeting of the working body. We believe that in this case it is an administrative procedure, it is a matter of deciding on the rights and legal benefits of entities to obtain and possess a home number and, as such, both rights and legal benefits are legally protected. In addition, this procedure shall be decided by the body in the composition of the Ministry, the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which by law carries out the professional and administrative tasks of establishing and maintaining databases in the area of spatial units and household numbers. They shall issue and conduct administrative procedures and decide on geodetic administrative matters at the first stage. On this basis, and on the basis of the protection of the rights and legal benefits of natural and legal persons in our parliamentary group, we believe that it would be more appropriate and more proper to set house numbers to be retained as an administrative procedure. In spite of this comment, we agree with the proposal for a law by the DeSUS Members. We warn that local communities have the highest obligations under the law. It is good that the process is attracted to the general public. However, we have concerns about the costs to be incurred by the mandatory publication in the media. Let me draw attention to another segment on this subject: the problem of over-renameing settlements, places, streets, settlements and so on. It is not exactly in the context of this proposal, but it is a change of name, namely, at the 124th extraordinary meetings on 7 June 2007 on a proposal which states that the political parties for the public airport of state importance of Ljubljana-Brnik have designated as suitable the next beautiful sound name of the Airport Jožeta Pučnik Ljubljana. I will not lose words about public response, as we all know that today most people still use their previous name for this airport. This all points to chaoticism, confusion already among Slovenian residents, but only among tourists. I have mentioned this case in order to illustrate the problem of over-renamement, which is certainly not in favour of consistency of knowledge of places and orientations of individuals. Nameing settlements, buildings, streets are part of our historical and cultural heritage. As I have already been mentioned, our DeSUS Group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Nice hello to you all! Well, marriage was definitely needed, because from 1980 to today a lot of things have happened, things have changed, things have changed, things have changed, things have changed. However, there are certain matters in the law itself that may still need to be discussed in practice. It is nice to write the names of streets and settlements in a beautiful Slovenian language. However, it makes sense to use, where possible, birth names as well. However, it is not that they are all somehow famous according to Toporišič's plan to destroy the Slovenian language. For many times, when a man travels through Slovenia, he sees that from beautiful Slovenian names and old names he has created a new one. As an example, we can mention Hotedršća in Notranjska, which was Hotedrščica, Hotedršica, Hotedršća and everything possible, just not what it once was. There is certainly a question that needs to be resolved, even in Article 20, paragraph 4, where it says that there should not be two streets in the same settlement with the same part of the name. We have some examples, say, of composers and doctors of Ipavca. It is true that Benjamin and Gustav are the most famous, but we also have Yuri, Franco, Aloys and Joseph. And why don't we have somewhere in a settlement or in a place that doesn't even have settlements, say, Sežana is a place that doesn't have settlements, or, say, another end just like that. Why don't we have Benjamin Ipavc's street next to Gustav Ipavc's street? Once again, after that previous mode of destruction of the Slovenian language, wherever we already have Ipavč's street, which can actually point at six Ipavcs, not to a particular Ipavc. It is also important to remember, in Article 5, paragraph 20, that, at the time of the adoption of the special statute in 1954, when it was specified exactly where double labelling should be used in bilingual municipalities on the coast, this matter was, in Slovenian and Italian language, quietly circulated under the various mayors of Kotar and a special marketing statute was violated here. Nor does the law take this into account, and it may make sense, at least in practice, to put this matter back on track. There's also another matter that bothers me. Rumor has it that the problem of black construction has been solved. But I think the problem here has been solved in some strange way. In Article 27, point 3 states: "If the building is not registered in the cadastral of buildings or register of immovable property, the applicant shall, in addition to the requirement to establish the house number, apply for the registration of the building in the cadastral building or complete the questionnaire in accordance with the regulations" and so on. That's what he says, he writes a piece of paper, and it's not "de jure," it's "de facto" a legalized black construction. I think there is one mistake that practice will show, because I think that those who are blacksmiths are quite familiar with legislation and know where the holes are. So I'm afraid that some will get the home number from this marriage first, and then everything else. Nevertheless, I do think that the law is suitable for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Boštjan Zagorac has the floor on behalf of the group of unrelated Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! Very briefly. In a group of unrelated Members, the self-named Lipa, we will support the law. However, we want the provisions of the law to be implemented consistently, especially as regards street names, we know that some in this mandate, I will say, the silent supporters of the ruling coalition have even been able to name the street by themselves in certain settlements, first thing, and second thing, in particular the consistent implementation of who is registered at what address and how many people are registered at this address. The law provides for sanctions and we want them to be properly implemented in this direction. That is why, on our part, we have already called forward on all those billmakers that the law will not only be a letter on paper but will also be implemented in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Possonec, please, on behalf of the national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. The area of the designation, designation and labelling of settlements, streets, buildings have been regulated by 28 years of age and just as many years of age by an old rule that has been complemented by a wide variety of changes. The law will further delimit the powers of municipal, geodetical, statistical and other authorities in the determination of areas, the designation and labelling of settlements, streets, buildings. It will also clearly identify who is and can be the initiator of such procedures, the course of the whole process, the designation of areas and the designation and labelling of settlements, streets, buildings; who can participate, who will cover the costs incurred and who will supervise these procedures. Members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities are deeply concerned at the proposal for a law, since it no longer provides that the participating municipalities must obtain the consent of the councils of the municipal self-government national communities prior to the decision to determine the name of the settlements, streets and markets in the national mixed areas. Consent in this matter is a right which must not be abolished and expressly recorded in all municipal statutes in the national mixed area. If a new law of this kind no longer establishes and only requires an opinion, it will trigger an even greater erosion of the protection of the specific rights of the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities in Slovenia in recent years. So we can give this law consent only if there is agreement on the part of nationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u92	Nice greetings to all present. We have before us the Law on the Designation of Areas and on the Designation and Labelling of Settlements, Streets and Buildings. The reasons for the adoption of the new law are a number of social policy changes that have taken place from 1980 to today. However, they have also created difficulties and uncertainties in the implementation of the rules. In particular, the independence of Slovenia and the subsequent transformation of its administrative system, the establishment of local self-government, full membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the United Nations and the European Union should be highlighted during the changes. Slovenia has undertaken by acceptance to respect the resolution on geographical names. Resolutions clearly define the need for States to prevent the duplication of geographical indications within their territory through a well-established standardisation process. Thus, in 1995 the former congregations ceased to function. Their responsibilities and tasks have been taken over by new municipalities, including municipal, inspection and editorial services, administrative units, geodetic administration, police and inspection services. The Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia shall carry out the professional and administrative tasks of establishing, maintaining and maintaining databases in the field of the basic geodetic system, registering properties, mass valuation of properties, spatial units and household numbers, topographic and cartographic systems, and shall coordinate the connectivity of spatial databases and in particular on real estates. Regional geodetic administrations shall establish, maintain and issue databases of geodetic data and conduct administrative procedures and decide at the first stage in geodetic administrative procedures. These powers are taken into account in the proposal for a new law. The new Law on the Designation and Labelling of Settlements, Streets and Buildings is actively involved in the procedures of all concerned and lays down rules for the establishment and designation of the settlement area. The main solutions to the law it brings replace the applicable Law on the Designation and Registration of Settlements and Streets and Buildings. It is a matter of harmonising the actual and recorded situation. For individual procedures, the law clearly defines legitimate initiators, the manner in which the proceedings are initiated, who all participates, specifies the procedure, including deadlines, provides for a decision-making act, cost operators and, last but not least, supervision. Identifying and modifying the areas of settlements and their designation, naming, and determining streets and street systems is the primary responsibility of the congregation. The law also lays down the competence of the Ministry responsible for the environment and space and of the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the implementation of the law, the establishment of house numbers and the care of legality. The draft law lays down rules for determining the area of settlements, streets and their designations. The law prohibits the municipality by changing the area of the settlement to the area of the neighbouring municipality. The law prohibits the alteration of the areas of the municipality’s settlements during the course of the procedure for the change of its territory or for the establishment of a new municipality in the part of its territory. Each settlement must have its own name. There must be no two settlements with the same name in the municipality, and the name of a new settlement or new name of a settlement must be different from the name in other settlements in the Republic of Slovenia. The procedure for changing the area of the settlement and the appointment of the settlement shall be initiated by a proposal submitted by the eligible applicants of the municipal regulation. These are the mayor, the members of the municipal council and other representatives, and also the councils of the congregation. The municipal decree also defines the streets within the street system. Street marking is the cost of municipalities. Street and building markings are arranged separately. House numbers as building codes shall be determined by the Geodetic Administration. Costs of purchase, installation, maintenance and installation of house number plates, again due to longevity or recalculation, are borne by the owner or manager of the building. An inspection of the implementation of this law shall be carried out by a geodetic inspector. In the second reading, several amendments to the Committee were adopted by the Committee, which we fully support. We also fully support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber, you have the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u94	Thank you for your words, Mr President, and for your warm welcome to all on behalf of the Group of Members of the Social Democrats. The Law on the Designation of Areas and the Designation and Labelling of Settlements and Streets and Buildings speaks of addressing shortcomings in the current process. We find that there are indeed quite a few procedures involved in the appointment, especially the streets. For there was a confusion as to how to involve the public in the treatment and how to actually form the final form of the name, especially the streets and whether and how to design a reduced form of street names. In fact, settlements are even simpler, for they usually bear the name that characterizes her position, the position. While in the streets, of course, we are faced with suggestions that are either bound to a geographical name or the street would have a name after an event, or a date related to history, or to a person and, of course, to a person who has made a significant contribution to the development of a settlement. In short, a whole series of proposals can be categorised and it is right that these proposals are formulated and dealt with in the most democratic, open manner possible. We therefore welcome the process of identifying names, settlements and streets, which leads to the need to consult persons from areas to which changes also apply. We also believe that the names of settlements and streets where, in addition to the Slovenian language, the official language is also the Italian or Hungarian language, the names of the settlements are determined in Slovenian and Italian or Hungarian. In this regard, we also point out that the minority's views must be taken into account throughout the process, so that there will be no complications, which is also highlighted by the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Nevertheless, another issue is open to us, namely, that we have doubts between the harmonisation of the title of the law itself and the content of the law. For the title of the law speaks of the appointment and marking of settlements, streets, and buildings; but in the very contents of the law there is no procedure for determining the name of buildings. So, we kind of miss buildings in this law, how do we actually get to the names of buildings? And we hope that the billmaker will give us a more detailed explanation at today's session, because the content of the law is not to be traced back to that. I hope that these shortcomings will still be remediable if necessary in the light of the explanation we are expecting from the proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 29.1.2008. I am putting to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the Group of the Italian and Hungarian National Communities. Anybody want to talk? Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to support the amendment proposed, because it seems to me that it interferes with the right which is necessary in the bilingual area where two official languages live alongside each other, so designed a requirement of minority consent for designation and it would be good to consider it a standard and not have to be recorded. But since it is often said that what is not in law, then it is not possible to exercise this right, it is only right that this provision is specifically laid down in Article 17. Now, Mr Vice-President, I would like to point out that I will take a step further from the amendment and open up some other aspects of bilingualism, so I hope that you will not interrupt me. I would like to continue with what my fellow Member, Janko Weber, has said. Of course, the law was supposed to speak of geographical names, but the title added its real names. And in real personal names, these are the names of buildings, the legalities associated with language are slightly different as regards spelling, such as in geographical names. Therefore, this provision should also be taken into account and stated whether the Geodetic Authority is also responsible for them. And when I spoke at Article 17 about bilingual topography, then let me remind you that in practice, when it comes to the use of geographical names, it is possible to ignore regulations and designations. I will draw your attention to a very specific case that has recently received this in the Maribor Evening also the form of some controversy between an individual and a director or two responsible persons of the Maribor Institute of Tourism. But it's this thing. The introductory words were that names should be properly recorded. Maps are usually the ones where the names are clearly shown. I have in my hands a map of the wine-cultural path of the Archduke John, who has two wages. On the one hand, the Slovenian wine route is described in more detail and on the other hand the wine route of the Archduke John in Austria. This is said to be a bilingual map, as explained by both responsible persons, but the map also has a legend in English, so there is already some confusion about the facts. Data on the map is to be provided by the Geodetic Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, municipal data is to be provided by the Municipality of Maribor, maps are produced by the GIS service and data processing. However, the map is a result of trans-regional cooperation, funded by the EU, the Institute for Tourism has provided part of the funds, including the Local Self-Government and Regional Policy Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So this is a complex project - and what is the problem? In the National Assembly, a married couple called at my home Vedernjak, who expected me and the National Assembly to bring more order to the use of geographical names on maps. If you look at the Slovenian part of the map, all geographical names are actually written in Slovenian to the Slovenian-Austrian border. The number of Austrians written down, but this is more empty space, they're in German. When you turn the map, which is a more detailed description of the Austrian wine route, you can see that there is a lot of interest in the wine route on the Slovenian side. And here your attention will be drawn to the name of the city from which I come, because this city is written here as Marburg and then with small Maribor. The Director of the Institute hereby substantiates such a record by the fact that it is a combined project, but that Maribor has been a Marburg in history anyway. From history, I can tell you that Stanko really used the Slovenian name Maribor in a private letter in 1836. I will spare you the way this name has been used, but if we are consistent, and if we think about who the map is intended for, even for a tourist, when it comes to the Slovenian side, it will probably first see the inscription Maribor and only after it has helped have a German name. And instead of both, Mr and Mrs, who are responsible for this project, I think a little bit that there is a map for this map, at least as far as it can be said that it is a'shampast', they have angered Mr Vedernjak, if he is wrong and that he is - they have read a lot more to him, and I will not repeat it now. What's this all about? Emissary colleague Willi Rezman would probably mind if I told him that his congregation was written here by the Russians. That would be possible. We know that word in Slovenian means something, too. That, for example, it might be possible to track Šentilj, and you can imagine that I will list to you a whole series of local names that are written without noises. That a completely inconsistent principle of bilingual recording of local names can be found on this map. But what worries me in this context is that in this record of both responsible persons, I have tracked down a record that says, "In these times when the borders have fallen, however, we will have to accept that we will also understand this way of writing local names." I don't know where that came from. There is still a border between Austria and Slovenia. The border of the Slovenian national territory is established. Topographical designations prove that. Unfortunately, we lost our names in the north and only river names indicate where Slovenian settled territory was once. And if that's how we think about these things, then we're not far from giving up even Slovenian local names. And why am I starting this problem? Because the Geodetic Authority is the one who gave the data because the Geodetic Authority should also keep an eye on the products. You can nod. You can nod. Who's it gonna be? The inspection says he can't. Then there's no organ! But then everyone can do to us as he pleases, as he knows and knows, and as his language views are. If the Geodetic Authority is concerned about what you, the distinguished representative of the office, initially said and also said that for the correctness of the records, the use of these local names is also part of the concern that the Geodetic Authority should impose, otherwise we will have a complete local confusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I must say that, although Mrs Masters, you have warned me that you will be somewhat off this path, as we are talking about, this is about the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian national groups, but I believe that your implementation has been very instructive and very, I would also say constructively. In particular, this is what we are discussing at this point. Mr. Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This issue of this amendment is, believe me, much more serious than it seems at first sight. This is about respect, not only for the principles of independence, but also for international treaties. The Basic Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia states: "The Republic of Slovenia guarantees the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms to all persons in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of their nationality", and so on, "the Italian and Hungarian national communities in the Republic of Slovenia and their members are guaranteed all rights under the Constitution of Slovenia and the international treaties in force." This Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is the Constitution which was in force before December 1991 when the new Constitution was adopted. Thus, in the Basic Constitutional Charter, Slovenia undertakes to preserve the rights and thus the situation of the national communities. Article 5 of the current Constitution states: "Slovenia protects and guarantees the rights of indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities." The 1980 Act, notwithstanding the fact that terminology refers to the situation that was at the time, unequivocally states as to the designation of settlements and streets that qualified representatives of national communities in national-mixed municipalities have the right to give consent on those names. Why does that happen? This is because in October 1954 the so-called London Memorandum was adopted, which "de facto" extended the sovereignty of the then Yugoslavia and thus Slovenia over the former B area of the market free territory. This memorandum is accompanied by a special statute on how it is necessary to regulate the situation of Italians in Yugoslavia and Slovenians in Italy as regards the former zone. There is a speech on the bilinguality of these names, on the relevant presence of members of the ethnic community, because that was when the ethnic community was called in this case by the Italian ethnic group. The relevant number, at least a quarter, at the time this agreement was signed and this sovereignty extended, was missing. Now we're not going to discuss the reasons why this number, the relevant number, was missing, but it wasn't. And this special statute could not be applied as it was written, unless certain mechanisms were put in place that would be substituted for the fact that there were no more numbers. Because of this in the constitution, both the previous and the present, it says that rights are exercised regardless of the number, but because the number was no longer! And now, if we end this agreement, we will be exposed to the obvious lack of respect for international agreements. In addition to making a god knows why, one objective damage to both national communities, because if there is talk about culture, culture and language, if there is talk about this tradition, then it is necessary to know that there is a culture and cultural tradition of national communities in national mixed areas. The decision is in your hands. Are you going to accept this amendment or not? However, it seems extremely strange to me that we have to draw attention to these things, not to the legal services of ministries, governments, parliaments, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u100	I'll be very brief for 28 seconds to invite you to listen to the relevant warnings of Comrade Battelli. Second. You know what toponomastic means to national communities. Thirdly, we inherited the previous Yugoslav system of things, and at that time the consensus expressed by the self - control national community was in force today through the congregational saints, members of the national community. In order to preserve such arrangements, we will open an unnecessary and very harmful front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it anymore. That is why I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided on Friday, 1 February 2008, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A DESCRIPTION LEGISLATION, REGULAR PROCEDURE. The proposal for the Law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Bajuk, Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u102	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia forwarded the Foreign Exchange Act to the National Assembly for consideration in July 2007. The draft law was adopted at a meeting of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy, which was held on 17.1.2008. We are briefly presenting the main areas governed by the proposal for a law. The proposal for a law will replace the applicable Foreign Exchange Act which entered into force in April 1999 and was amended in August 2003 by the Act amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act. The main reason for drafting the bill is to adapt the rules to the new conditions following Slovenia's entry into the European Economic and Monetary Union. One of the four fundamental freedoms of the European Union is the principle of free movement of capital arising from the Treaty establishing the European Community. Already in the 1999 Foreign Exchange Act, the Republic of Slovenia took an important step towards the full release of capital flows and the establishment of a European acquis in this area. A number of restrictions on capital flows have been removed. In 2003, the amendment of the Foreign Exchange Act established the full and irreversible release of capital flows and the restriction on the possibility of safeguard measures with the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in the EU. In the area of exchange transactions, the proposal retains the Bank of Slovenia’s current competence to issue permits and control over exchange transactions and to regulate the conditions for obtaining and withdrawing the authorisation to carry out exchange transactions. However, it is proposed that the other provisions governing the powers of Banka Slovenije, which are regulated by the Banka Slovenije Act, should be repealed and therefore no longer be subject to specific provisions in the law as they were in the past. To Banka Slovenije is transferred the power of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to decide on offences committed in the area of exchange transactions. The European Central Bank has expressed its view that the Bank of Slovenia’s new tasks are not listed among the functions of the national central banks established by the Statute of the European System of Central Banks, so-called ESCB, and that they do not consider that they would be contrary to the objectives and tasks of the ESCB. The powers of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia as a criminal authority concerning the sanctioning of the non-application of cash transfers when entering or leaving the Community shall be transferred to the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EC) No 1899/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2005 on the control of cash when entering or leaving the Community lays down competent authorities and sanctions for infringements. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that these solutions and proposed changes are appropriate and, of course, also necessary. The Government has also aligned itself with the Legislative and Legal Service on the comments it has made on the proposal for a law and therefore proposes that the National Assembly adopt the proposed text of the law, as discussed and adopted at the home body of this esteemed State Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u103	Thank you very much too, Minister Bajuk. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the draft law treated the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Starman, to submit a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Greetings to the Minister and everyone else. At its 36th meeting, on 17.01, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a law on foreign exchange transactions as the working body of the mother. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which first drew attention to the sense of summarizing the individual parts of the Regulation which contribute to the understanding of the content of the legal act, which is not in conformity with the acquis in the European Union. The legislative and legal service has made comments to almost all articles, Articles 2 to 17 of the Law, but these comments are mainly editorial in nature and contribute to the realization of either greater clarity, understanding and transparency or, in a nomotechnical sense, improved text. The comments of the Legal and Legislative Service are taken into account in the Committee's amendments, which have been considered by the Committee in the context of additional working material, as shown in the following report. The Committee also took note of the letter from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the opinion of the European Central Bank of 9.1. Until the expiry of the time limit, i.e. up to and including 11.1.2008, qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments to the proposal. After discussion, where the main point was why so many comments were made by the Legislative and Legal Service to almost all the articles, we then adopted the amendments of the Committee, which also mainly contained these comments by the Legislative and Legal Service, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, first adopted the amendments and later voted on all the articles together in the light of the amendments adopted, pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended legislation, which also included the amendments adopted. We propose to the National Assembly that such a proposal be adopted by law. In addition, the Committee adopted the Committee's decision to include the next item on the agenda in the draft agenda of the 35th meeting of the National Assembly, which is the draft Foreign Exchange Act - the second item on the agenda. Once again, we propose that the amended draft law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Starman. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ciril Testen will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenije. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u106	Mr. President-in-Office. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we have no comments on the proposal for a foreign exchange transaction. In view of Slovenia's entry into the euro area, we must also take into account Regulation 1899/2005 of the European Community and the recommendation of the Financial Action Task Force on combating money laundering and terrorist financing. In the past, the Foreign Exchange Act laid down a number of restrictions on foreign exchange arrangements, the freedom of movement of capital and payment arrangements across national borders and the resulting obligations of residents and non-residents. The proposed novelty will remove these many restrictions and consequently the resulting obligations. In the New Slovenia Group, we agree with the fact that the proposal for a novel is adapted to the European Union's starting points, particularly with regard to the free movement of capital. The main purpose of European integration was to strengthen trade and economic cooperation. The European Union has created a single economic space and introduced the euro's common European currency, which Slovenia has also taken over, which is an important milestone for foreign exchange. With its membership, Slovenia has released the flow of all types of capital. In particular, the European Union's legal order in this area requires the so-called full liberalisation of the movement of capital and payments between Member States and between Member States and third countries. The law already in force provides an adequate legal basis for the liberalisation of capital flows and introduces an almost complete free regime for almost all forms of business. The proposed changes to the novel introduce adjustment to the new situation after the introduction of the euro in Slovenia and the maintenance of the exchange business, which is maintained by Banka Slovenije. The jurisdiction of the criminal authority is also transferred to the Bank of Slovenia from the tax administration. Infringement authority in cash transfer will, according to the new Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The amount to be transferred across the border shall be EUR 10,000. In the New Slovenia Group we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by colleague Marjan Drofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Honourable President, Honourable Minister with a co-worker, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The basic principles of the proposed Foreign Exchange Act are liberalisation and transparency. The law follows the European foreign exchange regime and is a logical consequence of Slovenia's entry into the European Union and the subsequent takeover of the European euro currency. The proposed law governs the exchange of transactions, criminal provisions, the cash control regulation when entering or leaving the community, and lays down criminal bodies in the field of the content of the law. Foreign exchange operations fall within the free movement of capital as one of the four freedoms of the European Union. At the same time, it is worth noting that the law already in force, together with the approximation of Slovenia, introduced a gradual liberalisation of foreign exchange transactions to the European Union and preparations for the adoption of the euro. However, the law must be adapted to the new situation created by Slovenia's entry into the Economic and Monetary Union. As a result, certain provisions of the current law have become irrelevant as certain powers from the Bank of Slovenia have been transferred to the European Central Bank. The law follows the guidance of the Financial Action Task Force and European legislation. We also support the identification of criminal bodies, namely Banka Slovenije for the area of exchange and customs administration for the area of undeclared cash transfer in or from the community. We believe that these two criminal authorities are highly qualified and will ensure effective control or management of criminal cases. At the time of consideration of this law, let us stress the satisfaction that Slovenia has eliminated by introducing the euro many foreign exchange risks when dealing with other members of the monetary union. This opened new possibilities for both legal and natural persons. Further simplification and liberalisation of the free movement of capital are certainly welcome. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Ambassador Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the national party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, the minister with his team! Let's be honest. The fact is that the proposal for a foreign exchange transaction law is being considered because we are essentially following what we said yesterday. We're in an area where there's no other way out. We are members of the European Union, we have requirements in three areas, on three pillars, i.e. Slovenian legislation, on subsidiarity, on European legislation. And when we entered the ERC1 and 2, which was a condition for entry into the European Union, "exchange rate mechanisms", we committed ourselves, and this is our duty, not our right, and this foreign transaction law changes the legislation for which we are bound. Here, Mr Minister, we have no problems in the Slovenian National Party and we support it absolutely. True, let us be so critical that, in preparing such a law, we get into disputes on the part of the parental working body because, almost certainly, I am speaking almost yes, so many amendments as do articles. That's a little weird, because we all know this is our responsibility. We all know it's the right thing to do. The ERC has clearly established that the foreign exchange mechanism is established and that it is against third-world countries within the European Union. And thank God he's like that, and thank God he's stable, and thank God we've had one of those since the introduction of the euro, and we still have one. The problem that arose on the parent’s working body was that it was a substantive law that had to be adapted, whether poorly prepared or not, I don’t know why he was amended with almost as many articles as this law has. Opposition up or down, coalition up or down. We have to accept this. And in the Slovenian National Party, we will make the proposal for a foreign exchange transaction law, because we owe it in principle, if you want to be in a club, you have to respect the rules of this game, you have to adopt it. However, I hope that you, colleagues and colleagues, or those who have prepared this law and the amendments later, will also accept the criticism that if we already know something we must do to do it well, not'shamply'. Not that we then have the same number of amendments to the number of laws that are inherently conditional. That's the problem, because there was no other problem. Also on the parent's working body. And this isn't about opposition, it's about opposition. The problem is that the law was "shampast" prepared for the amendments to show that the substantive and formal differences arise due to superficiality. There's no problem. We will support this law in the Slovenian National Party with the desire, hope and desire that we will be the laws resulting from our entry into the European Monetary Union and into the "Exchange Rate Mechanism", ERM 1 and 2, we must respect this, this is our obligation. And we will. But let's also get ready for this. Here I will stress again, I know that Mr Minister knows exactly what to do, and that he has a team to do it. And I deny any criticism to the Minister. Of course, I call on him to take his professional services into his hands so that his professional services will, in all his efforts, draw up legislation as it should be. In the end, it is always Mr. Minister, who must cover all other ministries, who doesn't know what they're doing to him in the back, but also professional services sometimes fail him, as it were. The only problem was that it was surface prepared. We need to adopt a foreign exchange law because we are indebted as members of Europe, we will support it, I am defending the Minister in this case, and I am just saying, give professional services and everyone else help the Minister if, after all, we are going to work to comply with the rules of the game that we all have together or have been specifically confirmed by the Treaty of Lisbon yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u111	The views of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Ambassador Boštjan Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honors are here! The law that lies ahead of us is not justice. It gives no benefit to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It's an emergency. It's urgent if we want to swim in a pool that this country decided on at the referendum. But, finally, the unrelated Members, self-appointed in the Lipa group, we are obliged to defend the interests of only these countries, only the countries of Slovenia, its citizens and citizens, not the European Union, as are some of my predecessors. I am committed to the people who live in this country. And if Europe asks for anything, it is not necessary for me to accept it if I assess that this is bad for this country. I'll go back to the law. The law itself is, as we have already said, a new law required of us by the European Union. That the law was prepared superficially, I do not think it is necessary to stress any of the Members who took it into his hands. The law was amended to almost all articles, by those who prepared the law. They were correcting themselves, which gives, I'll say, an assessment of how bad this marriage is and how badly it is prepared. It bothers us in the Unbound Members' Group named Lipa, also the fact that even in such laws as we are required by someone else, we write, I will say, such nonsense. We follow the opinion of the European Central Bank under this law. That's what it says. The European Central Bank emphasises that the Bank of Slovenia should provide more resources and more staff for the additional work imposed by this law. Finally, however, in terms of financial consequences, we allow ourselves to write that the law will have no financial implications. Can someone who advocates this law, who says that it is absolutely necessary to adopt it, tell me how more resources can be provided, more staff, and at the same time says that the law will have no financial implications? I don't know what you mean by means, I don't know what we're going to give, but the Coca-Cola machine at the Bank of Slovenia will be there with more resources? Easier work? Please! Such laws also need to be kept in mind that such foolishness does not occur in them. Once again, Slovenian citizens and citizens are not stupid. At least for the Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, named Lip, we can once again be certain that we are bound only by him, the Slovenes and the Slovenes. And we will draw attention to any such nonsense that will appear in any marriage, whether this country must support it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Comrade Bojan Starman will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u114	Thank you very much again for your words, Mr Vice President. Your Honor! Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal for a foreign exchange transaction law. Although I agree, as President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, that there have been far too many amendments, amendments added to the Committee's own meeting, despite the fact that they have made a more transparent law, I think that it would be right for certain things to be reconciled earlier between legal experts. The proposed Foreign Exchange Act is intended to replace the applicable Foreign Exchange Act which entered into force in April 1999 and was amended in August 2003. The basic objective of the bill is to adapt to the new situation after the introduction of the euro as a monetary unit of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a law governs the exchange of transactions and the criminal provisions of Regulation (EC) No 1899/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe of 26 October 2005 on the control of cash when entering and leaving the community. In addition, the law redefines the criminal authorities in the area of exchange transactions and penalises the non-application of cash transfers when entering and leaving the community. Thus, the Bank of Slovenia is transferred to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which, under the Foreign Exchange Act, decides on offences committed in the area of exchange transactions, and the powers of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia as a criminal authority with regard to the sanctioning of the non-application of cash transfers when entering or leaving the Community are transferred to the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law retains the Bank of Slovenia's current competence to issue permits and control over exchange transactions and the existing arrangements for the acquisition and withdrawal of permits to carry out exchange transactions. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u115	Thank you very much. My colleague, Milan M. Cvikl, will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u116	Good-bye. In opening, let me say that in the Group of Social Democrats, we will not oppose the proposal for a law. What bothers us, what we want to draw attention to, is an inadequately implemented procedure in the National Assembly, which is substantively linked to understanding the independent role of the Bank of Slovenia as an integral part of the European Central Bank system, which Slovenia entered on 1 January 2007. The facts are as follows. In the summer of 2007, the Government forwarded the law, and in October 2007, the Legislative and Legal Service formulated comments on the law. In early January 2008, the Government provided us with additional material, an additional letter stating that they had finally aligned the text of the law with the European Central Bank system, in fact with the letter from Mr Trichet, President of the European Central Bank, and that they did not object to the law, but that a number of amendments should be drafted in the law to adequately regulate the role of the domestic part of the European Central Bank system in the criminal activities of the Bank of Slovenia. At the meeting of the mother's working body, we received amendments at the table that were supposed to include this. These amendments were designed as amendments on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. How can the Legislative and Legal Service, which gave its opinion in October 2007, formulate amendments on the basis of something that the government has forwarded to the National Assembly in January 2008? That is why we have already warned Members there that it would be right to say whether the right path would be just the following: the government would withdraw the law in July and introduce a new law, including all suggestions, the comments of the European Central Bank, or at least a minimum to correct the address in the amendments of anyone who can do so. And here, of course, was the problem. I would therefore ask that when we consider financial legislation, we take into account what Slovenia has committed itself to entering the euro system. Home Banka Slovenije is a legal part of the European central banking system and is therefore to be taken fully into account in the process of drafting the law, not only with almost half a year's delay. The amended draft law now takes into account both the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in July or summer 2007 and the position of the European Central Bank in November, if I am not mistaken, in December 2007. It would be good if this preliminary step, the more corrective preparations, were made by the Government at the very beginning of the law's proposal. In principle, the Foreign Exchange Act is needed. It deals with changes in the European financial area. Finally, since we are discussing important financial issues, it would be good to hear from here on out. The government estimates yesterday's four major agreements on the introduction of greater financial stability into the European financial area. This would also be worth talking about today if we are already adopting legislation to increase the confidence of Slovenians, Slovenes, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in the domestic and European financial system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Member Milan Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u118	Thank you, Vice President. Minister, colleague, colleagues, mine! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the proposal of the Foreign Exchange Act, which preserves the Bank of Slovenia's competence to date, i.e. the power to issue licences and control over exchange transactions, and the conditions for obtaining and withdrawing the authorisation to carry out exchange transactions. The conditions relate to the qualified owner and the responsible person of the contract exchanger. It lays down the conditions for the exercise of exchange activities by means of a sub-legislative regulation by Banka Slovenije. That's a few lines from this law. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are aware that following Slovenia's entry into the European Economic and Monetary Union, based on the common currency and monetary policy and the coordination of economic policies, it is necessary to adapt the rules to the new situation. At the same time, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we must express our concern about the conduct of the Government, which transmitted the law to the National Assembly clearly too quickly, which was on 19 July 2007, before the law was aligned with the European Central Bank, which forwarded its opinion only in January of this year, and that was then really the basis for the amendments. And with regard to the amendment, the next thought or observation. There were too many of them at Article 19 of the 14 amendments. This is unacceptable for this Parliament, for the applicant, and I think it shows negligence and underestimation in the drafting of a law that is demanding and has its connection with the European Union. The bill complies with the second paragraph of Article 45 of the Offences Act, which requires competent and supervisory authorities to also conduct infringement proceedings if they detect violations of the proposed law. Therefore, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia is transferred to the Bank of Slovenia, which has so far decided, following the Tax Procedure Act, on offences committed in the area of exchange transactions. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Service Act 2006 transferred the powers of the foreign exchange inspectorate under the Foreign Exchange Act to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which thus became a criminal exchange office. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the basic objective of the bill, which allows for the adjustment of the new situation after the introduction of the euro as a monetary unit of the Republic of Slovenia. In the LDS, we also support the second objective of the law, which allows for the maintenance of the regime of exchange. Since this law will implement the basic principles of the Law, these are liberalisation and transparency, and since we are aware in the Group of Members that after Slovenia's entry into the European Economic and Monetary Union, based on the common currency, monetary policy and the coordination of economic policies, we also need to adapt the rules to the new situation, the LDS will support the Foreign Exchange Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u119	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. As no amendment has been tabled to the amended proposal, I am also concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we will vote on the amended proposal for a law on Friday, 1 February, within the framework of the point of vote. And with that, I'm breaking this agenda. And we're moving on to 8. POINT OF THE DAY’S ORDER - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PUBLIC ORDER LEGISLATION LAW. We are considering the bill following a reduced procedure. We have 55 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law has also been tabled this time by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I now give the floor to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bajuk, for the introductory explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u120	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Public Procurement Act entered into force on 23 December 2006. It shall apply from 7.1.2007. During this time, it has proved necessary to upgrade or supplement individual solutions to the law. The proposed solutions to the amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act are also fully followed by the proposed amendments and additions to the law in water, energy, transport and postal services. The proposed amendments to both laws are intended to facilitate the execution of public procurement procedures by contracting authorities. Since the laws are substantively linked, the Government intervened in the consideration of the National Assembly both at the same time, and the College of the President of the National Assembly also decided to discuss them together today. The objectives of the proposal, both laws, are to increase the importance of the market price, to regulate statistical reporting on the public procurement portal in procurement procedures and to establish an electronic procurement system. In order to achieve the objectives and objectives of the proposal, the market price institute in procurement procedures shall be introduced for the first time. The definition of the so-called unacceptable tender is amended accordingly. This is considered unacceptable not only when the tender exceeds the contracting authority’s guaranteed assets, but also after the proposed amendment where the offer price is higher than the prices applicable to the subject matter of the contract on the market. Secondly, it enables or even obliges the contracting authority to use an electronic auction where all tenders received are unacceptable because the tender price is higher than the prices applicable to the subject of a contract on the market or exceed the resources available to the contracting authority. Thirdly, in the case of intellectual services, where the quality of the service is much more important than the price, the amendment of the law allows the price criterion, if the contracting authority makes the award on the basis of the most economically advantageous offer, to derogate from the so far applicable general rule included in Article 48 of the Act. What is the general rule of interest - the price criterion to the extent of all the criteria, so far it has been 60-40, and in such cases this can be reduced. The proposed law clearly provides that the statutory time limits for the acceptance of tenders and applications shall apply only to public contracts over European thresholds. By establishing a public procurement portal, contracting authorities under this law have been given the opportunity to better report on contracts awarded in the past year. All procurement notices are published on the public procurement portal, allowing for automated collection of data on public procurement for statistical reporting purposes. Accordingly, the individual provisions of the law governing statistics or the content of the statistical report have been amended or supplemented accordingly. The law is also amended in the work of the transitional and final provisions by imposing an obligation on the public company Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, d.o.o., which is 100% state-owned, owned by the Republic of Slovenia, to establish an electronic procurement system with the professional support of the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of Finance. The mandate of the Official Journal shall be given in accordance with Article 16 of the Public Procurement Act, now in force so-called ‘ZJN-2’. The Official Journal has the appropriate knowledge and equipment to establish an electronic procurement system, as it has already demonstrated by the establishment and smooth functioning of the public procurement portal. As a public law entity, the Official Journal is also committed to the application of the Public Procurement Act, which ensures the efficient and transparent use of funds for these purposes. The establishment of the system will enable contracting entities to meet the requirements of the Manchester Declaration, which provides that contracting entities will have to submit at least 25% of their orders electronically by 2010. The law also adds a specific provision concerning the procurement of foodstuffs in the public procurement system. The broader interest of the company is that the use of quality-produced foods, including food produced in an environmentally integrated manner, would be introduced as widely as possible, particularly in the provision of schools, kindergartens, hospitals and nursing homes. The provision is included in the section on criteria for selecting the most economically advantageous bidder. By doing so, the State will contribute through the public procurement system to the implementation of the Resolution on the National Food Policy Programme 2005-2010 and will take care of the healthy nutrition of vulnerable groups of the population, where children and older people certainly belong. Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I overstepped.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u121	Thank you very much, and an apology accepted. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. At its 35th meeting, on 15.1., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement. She forwarded the bill to the government's decision. The President of the National Assembly decided to hold a meeting of the College on 12.12.2007 to consider the proposal following a reduced procedure. We have received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments on Articles 1, 5, 10 and 18. All these comments, with the exception of the comment to Article 1, were taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Committee and endorsed by the Committee. The amendments to Articles 5 and 18 of the Law submitted were tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners. In the debate itself, the articles of the law submitted focused on the issue of the legal designation of a public undertaking, Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia d.o.o. to establish a basic functional system for electronic procurement or to provide an information system for the execution of electronic auctions. The view was expressed that this is an unacceptable solution, since this ensures a monopoly on the legal position of a private enterprise. According to further information, it was then found to be a 100% state-owned public undertaking. In the context of the discussion on Article 7 of the proposed Act, a proposal was also made for an amendment to the Committee relating to the completion of the decisions of Article 48 of the current law governing the criteria for the selection of tenders with a new paragraph. That Article should be supplemented by a provision that priority should be given to food products in quality schemes and to food products produced under national food quality rules in the selection criteria for food procurement. In further consideration, the Committee received the amendments mentioned above. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also defined the amendments to the Parliamentary Groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia and the Democratic Party of Retired Persons by Article 5 and adopted the amendment of those groups by Article 18 as a result of the amendments adopted by the Committee by Articles 7 and 18. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee then voted on and adopted all the articles together. On the basis of Rule 133 of the Rules of Procedure, a further proposal was prepared for amendments to the law for which the Committee proposes to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u123	Thank you very much for the report. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by fellow Member Marjan Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman. The Honourable Minister. The revised Public Procurement Act was passed a good year ago. During this time certain shortcomings in the adopted law have already appeared. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have always advocated as transparent procurement procedures as possible. In addition to transparency, it is necessary to achieve the objectives defined by the contracting authority which decided on the procurement. In any event, the unacceptable situations in which the contracting authority should accept an offer as a result of the procurement procedure are unacceptable, even though this would in fact be unacceptable from a price point of view in view of the market situation. The proposed law, as it is said, brings some significant changes. With regard to this problem, the law broadens the importance of market price in procurement procedures. The Institute of Non-acceptable Offers extends to situations where a specific offer would meet all the other criteria, and nevertheless the price of the offer would be higher than the actual prices on the market. The current law does not solve such a situation, but it can, of course, occur in practice. We certainly support the proposed solution, as the law must also ensure the principle of economy. The specific problems that will continue to arise through law enforcement practice will need to be addressed in the opposite direction so that it is not possible to avoid the purpose and principles of public procurement. Changes in the direction of greater information on procurement procedures are also welcome. The electronic publication of public procurement and procurement ensure a high level of transparency and accessibility of information on all procurement procedures. With regard to information, the proposed automation of the collection of public procurement data on the portal is also relevant. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Ambassador Willi Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, and a very nice greeting to all. Today, we have heard what this law or marriage proposal brings us. Perhaps there is no need to repeat this, even though any more of this may happen. We in the DeSUS Group would just like to inform the National Assembly that we will support this law, because we have no doubts, not about the objectives that follow them, not about the principles, not about the instruments that it implements and we hope it will really contribute to making public procurement more transparent, efficient, economical, that is, what it promises. However, we have already had some questions and concerns in committee proceedings. It must be said that, after the debate, these questions or concerns have not been raised. The fundamental principle or the basic objective of this law is to increase marketability. All that about market competition, all that can also reduce costs and thus public expenditure. Then the question is, How is it that some things that are supposed to be marketed are written into the law? The law itself will not compete in the market. And it seemed right for us to listen, and at least to agree a little bit, that the law-elected institution that will establish the system is probably not the best solution, although, as has been said, it is legal to do so, but the question is whether this is really the best thing or, to a large extent, contributing to the strengthening of the market. We don't think that's the case. This is not the case, nor is it, because the question is whether what we want to achieve must be written down in the law. So the law, which must function at the general, abstract level, must record all the specifics that we have in mind. This is the case with the designation of the Official Journal as the contractor. We have had a number of concerns regarding the marketing of the amendment proposed and envisaged special treatment, priority treatment against the purely specific layers of tenderers to which the offer is intended, types or modes of food production and so on. It will likely be difficult to prove that it is pure and marketable, so to speak in the law, what it should be like and what it should be like. If we follow the ambition of quality nutrition, which no one is likely to object to, it would not be necessary to focus on the poultry’s market competition. This amendment, which has been adopted and which we now have in the amended bill, does so, according to our judgment. What market specificity has to do with the market, which says that the one that is specifically dealt with, i.e. in an integrated way, in an ecological way or in specific time periods or even in specific locations produces food products. It's probably not the market that has a special connection. It makes sense to write down in the law what children, elderly people and patients should eat in hospitals, in nursing homes and in kindergartens or in schools, and we do not know what to do with the market. And we don't know why some of the other categories have been released. Most of all, it was a rule that talked about the priority of local products, so it all sounds kind of domestic, kind of protectionist. In this sense, we have concerns and preserve them. If I exaggerated a little, the applicants would be able to write out which school environment and which agricultural cooperative should offer an integrated diet. This is too much for the market economy. And just one short thought. Since this was based on the explanation of the article and some have been underestimating the explanation, let me say that the explanation is a constitutional part of the proposed article, as stated in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Ambassador Srečko Friend will present the position of the National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public procurement is certainly, I will say, somewhere, one of those laws that is to be welcomed. It relaxes competition on the market and in fact limits the monopoly of individuals. I'm very happy that we have monopolies on our market. This proposal introduces some new concepts or new legal institutions, such as the market price institution in procurement procedures. The definition of an unacceptable tender is also amended accordingly. The amendment of the law also allows, or even obliges the contracting authority, what is good, according to the Slovenian National Party’s assessment, to use an electronic auction if all accepted and received tenders are unacceptable. We will vote in favour of this bill in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Boztjan Zagorac will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Honourable Presidents, Your Honors! Please consider this presentation by a group of unrelated Members, named Lipa, also as the next law, given that there is a close link between the two laws. In line with the rationalisation of the work of this well-respected assembly, it makes no sense for us to talk twice about the same matter. As far as the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on public procurement is concerned, I would like to say that the unrelated Members, the self-appointed Lipa, will be supported. This is a step forward in the area of public procurement. So far, the arrangement has been such that it has allowed for a lot of speculation. Let me give you an example. For example, when it came to a public contract, there were three offers and it was necessary to take a minimum of three, regardless of the fact that the third lowest was still significantly higher than the market price for each service on the market. This law, by its arrangement, now prevents this, and so is the case. In view of the fact that public procurement is a matter of public good for the benefit of the people in this country, it is necessary to ensure the lowest possible price. Indeed, there is one matter which is somewhat disturbing, at least disturbing for unrelated Members of Parliament, the self-appointed Lipa. When we adopted a law that entered into force on 23.12.2006 and applied 7.1.2007, we established or established a so-called public procurement portal. For this portal, it is likely that the State has committed some funds, some money, which has now gone empty with the implementation of this law. That is why I want this law to remain in force for at least so long that the funds will also really be earmarked for the establishment of this new public procurement portal, so that the money will not go to waste. This is a marriage in the right direction, so in a group of unrelated Members, called Lipa, we will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u132	Dear colleague, dear colleagues, everyone else is present! In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group we support the amendment of the Public Procurement Act, as we also supported the systemic change that has taken place, as we have heard, at the end of 2006. To avoid repeating ourselves, perhaps in just a few words, some of which are essential changes, some words need to be said. It has already been said that there has been an increase in the importance of market price in procurement procedures, in particular in relation to the concept of unacceptable prices, the regulation of statistical reporting in relation to the public procurement portal and the establishment of an electronic procurement system. It is therefore some upgrade of existing solutions, which were fully enforced by a comprehensive amendment to the Public Procurement Act adopted by the National Assembly at the end of 2006, with a number of concerns in the work of the opposition. I think that practice has shown that these fears and concerns expressed at the time were groundless and that the novels, which adopted a different approach to the public procurement system at the time, were essential. Remember, due to inadequate legislation, we have witnessed many blockades in procurement procedures. Instead of protecting the interests of the contracting authority on the one hand, on the other hand, the previous laws adopted in the previous period allowing inappropriate, unhealthy speculation and corrupt actions. As a result of such legislation, a number of important public contracts, including the law that we have also amended, on the revision of the procurement procedure, have stood, not with the aim of achieving a lower price and better bids, but these procedures, which could have been enforced at the stage that the tender was published and thus, of course, the blocking of further broadcasting and performance of works, have led to the fact that these suppliers have interconnected, the result has been a higher price. It just happened in a few important highway sections. Even the so-called Kentucky work was subject to these speculations, and that was not good. It was therefore right that this legislation had changed. The result of this amendment of legislation is also the introduction of a public procurement portal which should be introduced by 2004. At that time, this matter was to be carried out until the end of the Information Technology Centre, which was abolished by the new government and was undertaken by the Ministry of Finance. On 22 February 2007, the Commission on Budgetary Control and Public Finance, as it was then called, reviewed the revision of this project, the public procurement portal. And then the Court of Auditors found that there was a whole series of strange situations and inappropriate proceedings in this proceedings. Mr Badi welcomed the decision of the current Minister for Finance, Mr Baiuk, who had finally come to an appropriate resolution, to the public procurement portal, which had to be highlighted, within the time limit set by the new law of December 2006 or before the deadline set by this law before 7 July 2007, with July the portal had already worked. So, in this case, it's not some expense that's going to go empty, as some people have said. With an electronic auction, it is essentially an upgrade to this portal, and in this context it is impossible to imagine the situation in which these things would work through each other. Notwithstanding the fact that it is only a portal manager in the case of the Official Journal. It is only a system for which it is right to be comprehensive, transparent and which results in rational decisions, both in the procurement process and in the field of contracting. Even with regard to this change that has taken place on the Committee, with regard to an additional criterion, it is not a matter of particular importance. It doesn't say what was said in a change of law either. This is what was said here in the resolution on food policy adopted by this Assembly in 2005 and applicable for the period 2005-2010. It is, of course, an upgrade to this law, and for one of the procedures which, as part of all the other procedures that all other ministries are required to implement, this resolution should also be implemented in life. There's something else I'd like to say about the portal. At that time, the Court of Auditors found that if we had a portal, we could save between €2 million and €20 million per year. Now we have a portal. Whether savings are really that high will be shown by practice. I'm sure they are. The most important thing in the portal is this, and also in this amendment to the law, to ensure a transparent way of awarding public contracts and rational decisions. We support the novel in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u133	Thank you very much. My colleague, Milan M. Cvikl, will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u134	Mr President, Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government. The Law amending the Public Procurement Act is, of course, a necessary law in view of the problems that arise in the field of public procurement. The State Audit Commission also clearly points out that, if they keep data from today's media, the State Audit Commission has warned of this in vain. There are no provisions included in the law to clarify certain rules, in particular the rules on the way in which the service is served and, of course, the deadlines within which the contracting authorities have to answer the questions of the tenderers. It is also unclear how the tender documents are explained; by the way, because of the unclear provisions concerning the clarification of the tender documents, I don't even know what type and how many armored 8x8 we bought. Therefore, this law is merely an attempt to regulate the issue of the greater importance of market price and, in fact, by this law, we are fully operationalising the public procurement portal. Otherwise, I do not know why they would write that it is necessary to bind the public company of the Official Gazette by law to collect public procurement data for 2007 and to submit them to the Ministry of Finance by 31 July 2008. If the portal, which is fully operational, is such that seven months full of seven months is required to collect data on what has been published in this portal, then this is not a very operational matter. We will not oppose the adoption of this law in the Group of Social Democrats, but we are, of course, asking ourselves whether, in the light of the introduction of electronic auctions, the most appropriate solution is to introduce a monopolistic provider of electronic public procurement into Slovenia. This is of course a systemic issue and if we decided that this is a public company Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, we could, of course, settle this with the Act on the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, this provision reminds us too much of that famous provision in the government regulation, which the Government then found to be illegal, that the AMZS is a monopolistic provider of helicopter rescue services from which, as you know, it was then carried out four times, five times more expensive helicopter transport and the Government withdrew. Therefore, our sense that this law is needed primarily because the implementation or functioning of the public procurement portal did not provide the functionality that was so criticised at the end of the previous Government's mandate, and thus the law states that until, if I am not mistaken, 31 March 2008 and with these provisions, only the basic conditions for the implementation of the electronic procurement directive in the Slovenian legal area, which has been in force since the end of 2005, would be applied. And in all this time, the operation of this government has left an opportunity for great savings. And if I use the calculation now, the figures previously said we have about two and a half years of delay, so up to 50 million Euros of tax money have gone up in the air. Why is that? - is the fundamental question that we are asking ourselves from the Social Democrats, and we are assessing that the law, including due to State auditors' arguments, the State Audit Commission and a number of comments, if we have listened to them at almost weekly meetings of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, is not fully corrected in such a way that it represents what we all want - effective public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u135	Thank you very much. My colleague Milan Petek will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u136	Thanks again. Also a greeting to the colleagues from the Ministry who joined. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the Government, by means of a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, has missed the opportunity for a more fundamental, comprehensive amendment of the very important legislation that regulates the behaviour of participants in the management of approximately €2 billion of public funds. In doing so, we are surprised that the Government did not take into account the proposals received from the State Audit Commission when drafting the law and that it did not attract the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. So, both bodies with the most knowledge and experience in the practical implementation of the law in this area. If the Government were to take into account the opinion of institutions that have a practical knowledge of the weaknesses of the law in public procurement, it would improve unclear and weak rules, such as those governing the conduct of public competitions. The Government could also correct the uncertainty about the thresholds for the obligation to publish public competitions, taking into account proposals for counting deadlines and so on. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we attach to the opinion of the President of the State Audit Commission that the law is appropriate and that it can go into procedure, but that the legal corrections are mostly cosmetic. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we support the objectives of this law which regulates the increased importance of market price in procurement procedures, the regulation of statistical reporting regarding the portal and the establishment of an electronic public procurement system. However, it is questionable for us that the law stipulates that the Public Company will be the Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia d.o.o., an undertaking which is only by the name or name of "public", and in fact is wholly private, therefore it is necessary to establish a basic functional system for electronic procurement or to provide an information system for the execution of electronic auctions. It is proposed, therefore, that private-owned companies be guaranteed by law, according to our opinion, even a monopolistic position. The right path would be a call for tender and consequently the choice of the best bidder to provide an appropriate information system for the purposes of electronic auctions. In addition, the proposed legal solution leads to the contracting authority's dependence on the procedure of electronic auctioning on the private company Official Journal d.o.o. The Government which proposed such an arrangement will be responsible for the possible consequences of the abuse of such position of a privileged undertaking. [[..]] The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports that part of the bill whose main objective is to ensure that contracting authorities obtain the most favourable offer in the procurement process. The latter must be comparable to the prices applicable to the public contracts in question on the market. Indeed, the purpose of the law is not achieved in cases where the contracting authority selects the most favourable tenderer after the procurement procedure and whose offer is still higher than the price applicable to such a contract on the market. The LDS also supports the objective of the law, which is to simplify and clarify the data that the contracting authorities are obliged to communicate in accordance with the law currently in force. Further arrangements shall aim at automated data collection on the portal. The next objective of the law is to provide for the possibility of electronic procurement for all contracting entities. The Manchester Declaration provides that by 2010, the contracting authorities will have to hand over as much as 25% of their orders electronically. As a result, a reduction in the costs of public procurement is also expected. Such a request in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is particularly welcome. However, we believe that at least a country, if not already the owners of public procurement, could be a larger proportion of public procurement than this minimum by electronic broadcasting. Let us point out another dilemma that occurred when the Public Procurement Act was being considered, this is the question whether contracts should be executed only on the basis of the price of public procurement, but not on the basis of other criteria, such as the quality of the equipment delivered. We all remember well the case of the operating tables when former Minister Bručan ordered the cheapest operating tables, which were then repeatedly corrupt in use. Despite some of these concerns, the LDS proposal will support the necessary and in the future necessary broader amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Ciril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! The demands of the contracting authorities and tenderers are to a large extent complex actions, and for this we support changes in the New Slovenia Group, which lead to greater transparency and transparency of public procurement. These amendments to the Public Procurement Act will increase the importance of market price in procurement procedures, regulate the method of statistical reporting and establish a system for electronic procurement. In the event of an unacceptable tender, the contracting authority will be required to carry out an electronic auction to which it will be required to invite all previous tenderers at the same time. If there is no price reduction and the price offered is still higher than the market, direct negotiations will begin. Today, about 10% of the gross social product is used through public contracts in Slovenia. It is estimated that around 12% of the gross social product is used under public procurement procedures in European Union countries. Public procurement represents a significant part of the Slovenian economy, is an important generator of economic growth and is one of the key levers of public spending policy, and therefore it is very important that public procurement is transparent, transparent and efficient. The public procurement portal has already been established in Slovenia. This will be enhanced by the establishment of an electronic ordering system. This will also meet the requirement that by 2010, the contracting authorities will have to hand over as much as 25% of their orders electronically. All of this will contribute to greater transparency, equality and competitiveness of tenderers. In the New Slovenia Group, we also supported the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups, which says that as one of the criteria in the purchase of food is also given quality and priority in purchasing food produced in an ecological or integrated way. This is particularly important for kindergartens, schools, nursing homes and hospitals, as these categories of the population are also treated as vulnerable groups after the Resolution on the National Food Policy Programme. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that quality is also associated with higher costs and an appropriate offer, but with a slightly higher engagement sometimes at the same price you could buy better food. Here we are referring to the engagement of those smaller bidders who today, when large sales centers are on the march, have no one to sell their quality food. In the New Slovenia Group, we also support the Ministry's decision to carry out the electronic auction project as a continuation of the public procurement project with the assistance of the contractor, the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, which is 100% owned by the State and is free of charge for users. €50 million has gone up in the air if, mainly because of the poor preparation of the procurement portal in the previous government. We've lost valuable time. The Group of Members will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. As no amendment has been tabled in the second reading, I also conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, as part of the vote, on Friday, 1 February. This also interrupts this agenda item. But we're moving on to nine. Point - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and the Field of Postal Services. The hearing shall take place on short notice. I would like to inform you that we have 50 minutes of reported time available for this item. The draft law was also submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Who's it gonna be? The government's canceling. Who's gonna stand up to this? No, no, no. Then we move into the framework of the legislative process. The proposal was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. President Bojan Starman will brief us on the report of his mother's working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u140	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. At its 35th meeting, on 15.1., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services. I have pointed out, in practice, which areas are covered by this law, which is a substantively practical twin of the previous law, only the orders of these items are carried out under a specific law. The College decided that the law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. We have obtained an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service with comments on Articles 1 to 14. With the exception of the comments to Article 1, any other comments shall be taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Committee at its own meeting. The amendments to Articles 5, 11 and 14 of the bill submitted were also tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners. Following an introductory explanation by the applicant, which is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Legislative and Legal Service presented in its opinion in particular points to the substantive link between the solutions of both laws and also the similarity of the service’s comments to both texts. In addition to Article 1, all comments were summarised in the proposals for amendments to the Committee which were adopted. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure, amendments were adopted to Articles 2, 3, 5, 9, 14 and 15 and, in accordance with Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also identified and adopted the amendments tabled by the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia and the democratic parties of Slovenian pensioners on Articles 5 and 11. The amendment of those parliamentary groups to Article 14 has become irrelevant as a result of the amendment adopted by the Committee to the same Article. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee further voted on all the articles together. The amendments have been taken into account or have been incorporated into a complementary proposal for a law, which we propose that the National Assembly adopts in the form proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u142	Say good-bye to everyone again! As has already been said, it is on the substantive side of a twin of the Public Procurement Act, as we have dealt with it a little earlier. The Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy Transport and the Field of Postal Services, the novelty of this Act is valid to be supported, which is why we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. With regard to the public procurement portal, which we are meeting directly here, in this electronic auction system and in the field of statistical reporting, it is necessary to say again that you will have to attribute the delay of two and a half years of discussion to yourself and your colleagues, who are now sitting on my left side, before sitting here in the center. This delay occurred at a time when the Center for Informatics was unable to conclude within more than two years of this procedure. There's no delay under this government. In accordance with the Public Procurement Act adopted in this National Assembly in December 2006, which entered into force on 7 January 2007, a six-month period was set for the establishment of a public procurement portal. The portal was exposed in June 2007, about a month before the deadline. These are the facts. Despite the fact that some of you expressed a great deal of skepticism at a meeting of a commission on February 22nd, this will or will not happen. The tenderer or operator was selected on a public invitation to tender. The public company Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia, which is not privately owned, has been selected in a public tender and, in this case, these two laws that we have on the table today, because some of you are talking about the monopolistic position of a public company, are only about upgrading this procedure, which some of the opposition in these boards have requested on several occasions. It is only a matter of following some normal procedure, some normal logic of greater transparency in the field of public procurement. And in this context, the comparison with the tables is not good. Your minister tortured himself for two and a half years with these tables because you had inadequate, ineffective legislation that you were unable to correct yourself, despite having a vast majority in this National Assembly. This is a table problem, not that now the tables have been chosen, which for some million euros are cheaper than those that are supposed to have been selected after the unsuccessful previous calls. The problem of servicing, guarantees, replacements, is not the minister's problem, it is a problem of technical services. We also need to operate, and for a million euros it is cheaper. Problem 8 x 8 is not the problem with this law, is the problem with your secret orders laws. 8 x 8 is only a problem because a contractor with 50 million Euros was chosen for a cheaper product or the former 12 billion Tolars. But this is your problem, not the problem of the Public Procurement Act and not the problem of this novelty that we have here today. However, the novelty that we have before us speaks of the fact that the procedures initiated by the 2006 amendment of the Law, which was implemented since 7 January 2007, will continue in an even more transparent and transparent manner as it has been done so far. And this savings, which we have failed to realize in recent years, must be attributed to yourself and to your colleagues, not to this coalition, by respectable colleagues from the opposition, who have passed over in this mandate. Unfortunately, some money actually blew up, not just because the portal was gone, but because we had inadequate, ineffective legislation. And if we hadn't changed it, we wouldn't be able to operate on any of the operating tables today, and probably a whole section of the highway, and no other vital matter would have been carried out. For this reason, we also support amendments to the Law on Public Procurement in the Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by colleague Milan M. Cwickl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u144	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, citizens and citizens! It must be said that some in the political velocities have confused everything – electronic auctions, helicopters, tables and so on. Electronic auctions shall be subject to European directives as a possibility from 31 December 2005, one year after the Janša government's oath. They are released for two and a half years in this mandate when electronic auctions are not in place, but if they are enforced on 30 June 2008, on the basis of the provisions we are adopting today. This is the story of electronic auctions and this gives a discount, this gives speed and this is possible only a year after the oath of this government. In previous governments, electronic auctions as European directives were not acceptable, especially because of the fact that Slovenia has not yet been a member of the European Union, and this is possible and only makes sense in electronic auctions when you have a supply of 500 million people of a large market. These are verifiable facts. The public procurement portal launched by the previous government has not been well implemented and the Ministry of Finance has started implementing this portal in this mandate. However, if we look at the visit of this portal, this portal is not carried out by the CVI, nor by the Ministry of Finance, but by the Official Gazette d.o.o., nor by the Official Journal d.o.o., but by two private companies of information technology that will receive a monopoly with the provisions of this law. And here's the comparison I gave. I did not talk about tables, although we can also talk about tables, whether it was a good change to the Law on the revision of procedures to achieve and buy such tables as they are being oiled. And is it good that, with the Law on the Revision of Procedures, amendments to the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures, we have achieved that we have blackmail by suppliers in the pediatric clinic, or that we have a Štučki tunnel that will not cost 30 but 120 million euros. In the mandate of this government, you have changed this law. However, the matter is comparable to helicopter transport. Since, at the will of Minister Bručan, who is no longer Minister, the Government has granted this right to the monopoly supplier of helicopter services. And that's what you want with this law. Therefore, those who mix tables and do not know what in the political velocities are helicopter transports for which John Janša himself has confirmed that they have been adopted illegally in the Government and the Government regulation which gave the AMC a monopoly position has been repealed. And today all members of AMZS Slovenia are paying for the hole that Minister Bručan drilled and Minister Bručan is, of course, no longer Minister. That is why we have pointed out that we are based in the European Union or Slovenia as a member of the European Union, where 500 million people, where thousands of electronic auction operators, each slightly larger company works on electronic auctions. Ask people at the EMO-Tool shop in Celje how they offer their services when they produce this or that tool to world car manufacturers via electronic auctions. To say that in this system of market economy is good that Official Gazette d.o.o. Together with two subcontractors, it becomes a monopolistic supplier of electronic auctions for about 500 billion tolars, amounting to EUR 2 billion of annual public procurement, but it may be questioned. But it's nice to say we can ask questions. And that is why, gentlemen of the coalition, you missed two and a half years, from 31 December 2005 to 30 June 2008, when it was then possible to enforce an electronic auction and only apply it two and a half years later. Therefore, the potential loss resulting from this title was created in this mandate. And so should voters and voters, if necessary in the autumn elections, even though I think people know something's really wrong if the pediatric clinic is still missing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Ciril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u146	Thank you for saying that again. Nice greeting to the representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we also support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on public procurement in water, energy, transport and postal services. The reasons for our support are similar, almost identical, to the previous presentation, except for the last part. However, I would also like to say that the public procurement portal, which was not established in the previous government, is problematic because there was also no possibility of electronic procurement. There was no possibility to verify the use of the market price, such as in the current proposal of the law. And here's the difference that we should be looking for, why we lost, if we lost, 50 million euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u147	Thank you very much. And the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will also be presented this time by fellow Member Marjan Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Chairman. Guests! Given that this law is, in fact, somehow, as has already been said, almost a twin with the previous proposed amendment law, we will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement in Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u149	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been tabled to the bill, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Friday, 1 February 2008, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the Government of the Ministry of Finance for their participation in the last three points. We're moving on to 15. Period of the Day - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on Preventing Violence in the Family. The hearing shall take place within the framework of a regular procedure. We have 2 hours and 25 minutes of time available for this point. In the beginning, however, I warn you, if time is left at the end of the debate, we will divide it among those Members who will still want to discuss it. The draft law was prepared for third reading by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the State Secretary within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mrs Romani Tomc. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u150	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a bill designed in particular to change our attitude towards domestic violence. Domestic violence must be perceived as an act of rejection that has a bearing on the development of society, and especially on children, far-reaching negative consequences that are difficult to correct and are passed on from generation to generation. To this end, the proposal also contains a precise definition of domestic violence and contains special protection for children and the elderly against violence. The law also stipulates that the child is a victim even if he is present in the exercise of violence against other family members. In addition, anyone who suspects that a child is a victim of violence will have to report this to the Centre for Social Work, the police or the State Prosecutor's Office even though he is bound by professional secrecy. The law also introduces a special prohibition against the exposure of children to mass media in cases of domestic violence, which is of course of great importance. In view of the experience we have had so far, it has been demonstrated by the treatment of family violence in practice that there is a need to define more precisely the responsibilities and modalities of cooperation between individual bodies involved. The draft law devotes a specific chapter to this work and provides for the adoption of sub-legislative rules which will lay down rules and procedures that will have to be followed by all the bodies involved. Social work centres are required by this law to start keeping their own records of domestic violence, so that they can act in a timely manner and protect everyone who needs it. So far, only the police have kept this record, because the Centre did not have the information and it was unable to provide adequate assistance and protection to those most in need. At the same time, the law provides for regular professional education for all those dealing with the problem of violence and prescribes a multidisciplinary approach to dealing with the victim. This has proved to be appropriate and effective in the European space. The important novelty of the law is that it does not impose penalties. This brings Slovenia closer to modern democratic countries, which attach great importance to fundamental human rights. The penalties remain laid down in the criminal code. Similar laws in the countries of the European Union also provide for sanctions, but as it is said, in Slovenia this is regulated by the Criminal Procedure Act and the Penal Code. The proposal before us today in the third reading is the result of professional work and coordination in all areas, which has also been prepared by professional workers who face this issue daily, while also by representatives of NGOs working on protection against domestic violence. The proposal thus focuses on the wider area of civil law and the functioning of social services, which can solve the problems of victims of violence in the long term. The law specifically highlights the importance of the planned and coordinated implementation of all those activities of state institutions, civil society and the population, which can contribute in any way to the reduction of domestic violence, reduce the possibility of violence and at the same time contribute to the rapid reporting of acts of violence and the appropriate punishment of perpetrators. The adoption of a five-year national programme for the prevention of domestic violence and the adoption of two-year action plans is also important. The latter will ensure a more transparent use of public funds and a reduction of violence and targeted targeting of the activities of the competent authorities. Dearly beloved, our collective efforts must be built up in the direction that we are all responsible for the society in which we live and that we are providing assistance to all who wish to step out of the circle of this violence. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ambassador Srečko Friend will present the position of the National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The fact is that as social situation deteriorates in the Republic of Slovenia, domestic violence also increases significantly. The data I provide have in fact been accompanied by analyses carried out in all these years. The law in the Slovenian National Party supports and welcomes the decision of the Government and the competent ministry to finally prepare a law that will deal with such a delicate issue that is now somehow obscured under the carpet. However, we just want to draw attention to something. The competent centres for social work have thus far proved to be ineffective, highly unprofessional and, of course, also inactive with all their options. Domestic violence has continued to increase since 1999. Today, of course, it falls under the offence of article 299 of the Penal Code and has increased by as much as 73% in recent years. If we look at the data of the Slovenian police, most of the violence is in Ljubljana, Maribor and Celje. Big cities, then. Data from 2000 show that these crimes were then 3084. In 2001, this number grew to 3844. If we look at 2002, we have 4,441 of these cases, 2003 already 5224 and of course 2004, although it's a little bit smaller, it's 5,000 again. The perpetrators of domestic violence were 88% male. So 12% were violence against women and, of course, children. In 2005, the police dealt with 2,654 crimes against women, and it is this population that is least protected and that is where the social service is at least actually active. Too long are waiting lines for mothers who could withdraw to a safe environment and, of course, the Republic of Slovenia has also done too little to actually offer quick judicial procedures, including a ban on approaching a person who is threatened by a bully. SOS and the phone for women and children who are victims of violence are actually welcome help, but this is not enough to say that we have mitigated the matter. And if we can expect the social situation in the Republic of Slovenia, and it is justified to expect this, even worse, then we can say that there will be more of this violence. The law also introduces free legal assistance to the victim, which is, of course, a good management of data on treatment and in cases of family violence, which also offers some traceability in procedures that can be repeated and, of course, authorities and organisations, and in fact other institutions dealing with it, are obliged to treat victims of domestic violence as a priority, which is also a positive and, in essence, a necessity for these cases to be dealt with as a matter of priority, even in judicial proceedings. This is not an item that can wait for court hearing on some court records, on some stack with others. So now we finally have a proposal for a law on the prevention of domestic violence, which we hope will be effective, and that in fact the ministry, either for work or for the internal ministry, or for the rest of the ministries that are tanning this law, will also consistently implement it. That's the problem! We have a lot of laws that are legally binding and are in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia but are not implemented. The purpose of the law is, in essence, to commit the ministries to ensure that this law is truly respected in the areas of police, health organisations, social protection institutions and educational institutions. If he doesn't, there's a dead letter on paper. As has already been said, in the Slovenian National Party, we support this law and we hope that it will also come to life consistently in implementation and, of course, by reducing these figures that I have previously mentioned in 2009. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u153	Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues and, of course, the distinguished Madam Secretary of State. I find it difficult to agree with the idea or thinking that, I will say, only the poor or the people who are on the social floor are beating or abuse their children or violence within the family. Hand to heart, violence is present here and now, regardless of the social situation of man or family. People who are well placed also have experience in violence. Therefore, I believe that the law before us today in the third reading is a big or important step forward in our society. The Domestic Violence Prevention Act is the first such law in our country to indicate the presence of violence not only in the family but in society in general. This law will be made possible by Friday's vote, and I believe that, even in practice, it will become a possible reality. At the same time, I am pleased that such a significant marriage or marriage has reached a compromise, not in its entirety, but to a large extent. I am pleased that this time the Minister is with the entire women's team, I will say, holding hands with this law, and that she has listened to some specific comments and has included, not least, opposition proposals in the law. Personally, I had the opportunity to participate in the framework of the draft law. Key comments at that time focused on the need for greater determination or specificity in certain procedures or around specific deadlines, in particular as regards the definition of violence, the definition of the role of social work centres and regional coordinators, the need to actively include representatives of local communities in social problems such as domestic violence, as this simply cannot be and must not be the sole concern of public officials. Identifying the rights of victims to complete information and consideration, defining the transparency of any procedures concerning victims and so on. I'm not going to say that I'm perfectly satisfied with the ransom or the final form of the law. Still, and here I am truly saddened, children will not get that place or that role or that of protection that they would have as an unequal partner, and a hand on the heart, children are unequal partners compared to adults, actually earning in procedures. It should be stressed that a child who has suffered or suffered domestic violence has so much less courage and a chance to talk about violence or, in particular, sexual assault. The law in this regard is not as good as it would have wanted. It does not solve the issue sufficiently, for example, the cover-up of this problem. It is important to be aware that sexual assault on a child is an act of violence in which a child abuser satisfies his or her need to carry out violence by way of sexual assault. In families where adults face violence, special attention should be paid to the child and monitored continuously as the most vulnerable member of the entire chain, such as the potential victim of the same abuser. Since I don't have much time, maybe that's all I'll say. I am pleased that the law is truly before us today in the form it was, I will say, not least with our help adopted at the second reading. That is why I am so much more pleased that an amendment, which I or I have prepared with experts and victims in this area, was included in the part of the law. Today, this law provides a legal basis for victims or those who are victims of Internet violence. By this time, or by the time the law enters into force, these persons had not actually had a legal basis to act on their own, nor did they have a legal basis to be assisted by the State. We will undoubtedly support the law in the Group of Non-Aligned Members with the name of Lip. However, I would like the next step to be taken, both mentally and within the framework of legislation, to legitimize zero tolerance for violence.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Ms Irgl will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we once again express our full support for the proposed Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. We have spoken and discussed this subject several times in this mandate. Both domestic violence and domestic violence are said to be widespread in society as a whole. And again and again, of course, there was a tendency to encourage this determined solution to this, certainly a pressing problem. But here, while we are talking about the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, I am not just talking about the violence that is taking place between the four walls, it is also usually hidden or hidden to the public, but I also have in mind the violence that is taking place in general in society, in the public, in the streets, in schools. We are witnessing violence among young people, among clearly defined groups. Finally, also in sports facilities, including in various games. However, I must first raise two questions. What family actually represents and how violence is defined within this family. Certainly, a family is a place where one should relax and, above all, feel good. This is a place where members are supposed to meet their needs in such a way as to support, after agreement, after dialogue, after some comprehensive development of man, independence. And in modern times, we can say that, of course, there is more and more talk about family. The importance of the family is highlighted by international organisations, both the Council of Europe and the United Nations. Both organisations have also adopted several international documents highlighting the importance of the family, such as those of the primary and basic cells of society. This example was, of course, followed by Slovenia, which adopted, inter alia, the Resolution on the Basics of Family Policy in the Republic of Slovenia. The family is certainly necessary, even when we consider this law, as a fundamental value. What about the concept of violence? The law defines it very precisely and at the same time broad. Thus, any use of physical, sexual, psychological, or economic violence by one family member against another family member or neglect of a family member regardless of age, sex, or any other personal situation. Of course, we also know a number of kinds of violence. Surely, the most common is the violence of a man against a woman, but we must not ignore other forms of violence. For example, partner violence, child abuse against parents. In recent times, there has also been an increase in violence between children, which I see as a broader problem in society. And if we look at violence against children. Even today, many have somehow turned their backs on this subject, do not know whether they hope or do not want to see it. Others even deny the existence of this problem and its devastating consequences. There is no doubt, though, that today is an important opportunity to talk about violence among children. There is more courage to deal with this problem, and there is more opportunity for children to come to terms with it. In my opinion, the law, which speaks of preventing domestic violence, will certainly encourage this violence against children to be seen even more easily, especially in order to be more quickly and effectively sanctioned. What about the question of violence against women against men? A phenomenon that is usually spoken of very quietly or not at all. Nevertheless, research shows that at least one fifth of such violence is within society. However, men usually do not talk about this violence, perhaps because of a sense of shame, of course they do not like to be subjected to violence, even if it is done by a woman. It is certainly commendable that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has recognised how these issues need to be addressed and prevented within the framework of legal provisions. The proposal for a law on the prevention of domestic violence shows that this government is aware of the need to find solutions in this area as soon as possible that will actually lead to positive effects in society. At the same time, however, it is necessary to realize that family violence is also something you do not want to be caused by the condition of the spirit throughout society, so we must not assume that the family is a source of violence. At the same time, it must also be noted that awareness, as a fellow Member has already said before me, is awareness of zero tolerance to violence in all segments of society and, of course, in the family. In addition to some strict legal provisions, the law on the prevention of domestic violence certainly has the role and purpose of awareness and warning. And maybe these two points are some added value, an additional quality of this law. The law that we have before us today is the first system law in this area. The law thus gives the centres for social work a significant role because, unfortunately, so far, the centres have not always played the necessary role, especially in those moments when the victim has reported some violence that has been committed and, as we know, the victim is particularly sensitive in such circumstances when he admits such an act. You could even say that there was considerable passiveity by the centres, and this must have resulted in the loss of confidence between the centres and those who were victims of violence or who just reported violence. This law, however, finally makes it legal for social work centres in practice to help each victim, regardless of age and gender. Of course, this legislation also increases responsibility, and the law also provides for compulsory education for professionals working in the field of violence. An interinstitutional approach to dealing with violence is also being introduced, which is certainly a major step forward. So far, the problems of violence have been dealt with by individual institutions, and there has been no movement between them, which meant that these institutions have placed responsibility on each other. On the basis of this law, however, the competent institutions will have to become more closely integrated and will certainly be more effective in my opinion. An important point of the law is the enforcement of the victim's companion - as you know - this offers the victim psychological support during the entire course of treatment - and the introduction of free legal assistance in judicial proceedings. Among other things, the law provides and provides for a significantly greater security for the victim of violence than has been regulated so far, mainly through the provision of security by the police. Especially when, for example, the victim enters an apartment, when he has to take the necessary things from his apartment that he needs to live normally. The second important measure is to ensure that the court can, on a proposal from the victim, order the perpetrator of the violence to leave the apartment, which was in common use, to the victim. And thirdly, the court can prohibit any contact with the victim. Certainly, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want this law to really help reduce violence, not only in the family, but also in society. I am pleased that this Government has decided to finally enforce this law on the prevention of domestic violence, because unfortunately, in the past there may have been a lack of real will to do so, even though much has been discussed. This is certainly a problem that we cannot close our eyes to, nor can we close our eyes. And we mustn't act like this isn't the problem with this society. This is certainly a problem that usually takes place behind the four walls, but this law will certainly help to make this much better. Any violence is unacceptable, unacceptable, and certainly for life marks both the victim and the one who causes some kind of violence. And that is why it is very commendable that NGOs, which have also participated in the drafting of this law, also devote their programmes to those who commit violence. That way, these people would have the opportunity to recognize their wrong behavior. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will certainly support the proposed law in particular in the hope that it will help reduce domestic violence and consequently in society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u157	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the third, we are discussing the proposal for a law on the prevention of domestic violence. We have said a lot about the individual elements of this law, and we have heard a lot about it, and let me take the opinion of the Social Democrats' Group on this law in a slightly different way than usual. I'm sure you'll be with me, if not out loud, and at least in your mind, recapture the choice of non-violence. One hundred and twenty thousand copies were written on the last page when NGOs, together with the Equal Opportunities Office and Fih, invested in mass media during the week of the fight against violence against women. He says, "As a mature and responsible person, I swear that I do not cause violence, I do not overlook violence, I do not encourage violence, I do what is right to do, I speak against violence and I act, I inform myself about trafficking in human beings." And the word is actually about this oath when we talk about the law on the prevention of domestic violence. After individual years of this mandate, events could be collected as the attitude towards domestic violence gradually changed, from total ignorance and denial to the adoption of law. I must say that this law has not been dealt with in any particular way until Mrs Marjeta Cotman took over the ministerial function. And I think her commitment has also helped us to vote on Friday. The adoption of this law differed in some other way. In this law, we were able to monitor the dialogue between NGOs, coalitions and opposition as well as interested working bodies or as parent workers. And if in what, then it was certainly a small act for what could be desired and expected in the adoption of other laws. Why am I stressing this in particular? Because, on 13 February 2006, after I had already asked the Government about the law, after we had adopted an appropriate recommendation in the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities of the National Assembly, which referred to the necessity of the adoption of the law, the Government replied: "In Slovenia, the principle is adopted that the Penal Code is the only regulation that lays down criminal offences in terms of codification, so determining offences by other laws or by specific law from a systemic point of view is not acceptable, as it would lead to the collapse of the system." The Government also wrote in its reply in April 2006: "Prevention of domestic violence requires treatment and action in various areas, both in terms of prevention and in terms of punishment, in view of the inter-ministerial nature, the issue in question is regulated by relevant sectoral legislation and by the implementation of various activities already presented." In these responses, which I have presented to you again, it seems that the Government did not actually feel any particular need to regulate this area. Also in the reports prepared by the Council of Europe, you will be looking for a report in vain, say, in 2006, what is happening with regard to the prevention of violence in Slovenia. But Slovenia is not the only country that has closed its eyes to the fact that violence is the most brutal form of human rights violations, that violence does not know any borders, not ethnic, not racial, not social, not geographical, and that it is not the only country that has for a long time refused to believe that family is not necessarily a safe area. Statistical data were not systematically collected in this country, so that only through comparative data of detected cases, which were collected mainly by NGOs, could we find that in Slovenia it is probably the same as elsewhere, every fourth or every fifth relationship as any form of violence has already been detected. When you have received in your own hands the Slovenian translation of the handbook for Members and Members in the framework of Parliament's campaign to combat violence against women in the family, you can also read in this manual what dimensions the violence actually has in the family and that it is likely to have to be tackled from the point of view of the national economy because it is calculated on what causes violence, it can be found that in the country, for example, with 10 million residents per year for intervention and police activities and health care and care for victims, it is estimated that around 400 million euros, while the annual price of violence in the family in all the Member States of the Council of Europe is at least 33 billion euros. That's 40 euros per person. These are data that probably can't leave anyone alone between us. And when I mention the Council of Europe and the campaign to the Parliaments to fight violence against women in the family, I am pleased to note that such a targeted activity has also helped us to face the problem of domestic violence more openly in order to recognise it. I am not saying that violence in the family today is more than ever, but we are willing to speak more openly about it. And only if we talk about it, if we take action can it be prevented. I'm not going to argue with numbers about the relationship between gender-based perpetrators of violence. It is certainly necessary to say that women are the majority victims of violence, between 90% and 97% of cases, and with women also children. What I would like to say is that Slovenia, if we look at how many safe houses, lies open to women and children in Slovenia, so that between 40 countries of the Council of Europe we are placed in 8 places from 0.9 beds to 10,000 inhabitants. Just for instance. The highest is Luxembourg, which has 3.52% of beds per 10,000 inhabitants. And here I have a June 2007 publication in my hands, and in this publication we can already track the data on Slovenia, as you can see. And I'd like to warn you about one more piece of information about her. It is essential to educate all those who come into contact with victims of violence, as well as with perpetrators of violence. And it is no coincidence that 27% of all activities or the highest percentage of training are directed to the police, then to social workers and workers, to medical personnel, including in this context psychologists, psychiatrists and other therapists, that training of lawyers is extremely important, teachers, educators and educators, but that there is a strong lack of training for journalists and journalists or all those who can help spread the campaign through the media. Well, good example and good practice is certainly the publication I spoke about earlier, as well as the awareness of people with such things as oaths about the choice of non-violence or perhaps what remains to be done as soon as possible, and this is to conclude that we will not tolerate any form of violence, so that we will not be put up with any form of violence against children in particular. And that would be what we should be looking for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Madam Secretary, colleague and colleague! At the parliamentary club, we have supported the draft law on the prevention of domestic violence from the very beginning. While efforts so far in various areas to help victims of violence have led to a number of legal provisions to address fundamental issues that address victims or perpetrators of violence, fragmentation and the implementation of individual measures in different areas could also be of less effectiveness and effectiveness in offering assistance to victims. In doing so, we would like to stress in particular that, in view of the current practice of working in the National Assembly, we can here commend the proposaler and the understanding of the coalition that, at the time of the adoption of this law and its amendment, we have received the support of the opposition's proposals and NGOs and have thus improved the content of the law itself. In the case of fundamental improvements, we would like to highlight in particular the provisions introduced by the amendments to enable the law to draw up a national programme on the prevention of domestic violence and on the basis of the national programme also implementing acts, these are action programmes. In the national programme, we will be able to define the assessment of the situation, the definition of key concepts, the basic objectives and orientations, the tasks, the operators of the action plans, while in the action plans for a period of two years, we will also be able to see the implementation of the national programme carried out in concrete terms. Another important message was a message to NGOs, since the law itself brings many powers and responsibilities to NGOs. Although the applicant has for some time opposed the solutions identified for non-governmental organisations, this provision has also been supplemented in the second reading by the amendment, as we are convinced that NGOs can make a significant contribution to reducing domestic violence and, in particular, through active preventive measures, prevent the causes of violence at all. At the parliamentary club, it also seems important that the state with legal provisions will not interfere with the privacy of the family when the full-year victim expressly opposes this and does not suspect the service of a crime that is pursued by official duty. The proposed solution is even more acceptable because the law does not prohibit intervention in any of its provisions when it assesses that any physical, sexual or psychological accounting between family members constitutes a threat to the life and health of family members and their personal integrity. Of course, with the positive solutions to this law, we have constantly warned and regret that the law does not include shorter deadlines for the adoption of sub-laws, because in our view it is a one-year deadline for the preparation of sub-laws too long and thus also reduces the effectiveness of this law. Since we are confident that the law will receive support today, we note that the whole work has not yet been done. In such an important law, we have not reopened the topic of the establishment of family courts, because in Slovenia we need not only a consistent punishment of the abuser, but in particular a uniform treatment of the family issue, which will need to be covered by marriage, property issues between former spouses, education, care and child protection issues and other issues. I therefore regret that we have not been able to adopt package legislation. On this occasion, I call on the Ministry to see, as soon as possible, other complementary solutions. In conclusion, allow me, on behalf of the LDS Club of Parliament, to make the law work as best as possible, with all my good intentions, and in particular to wish that violence in society will be as low as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u161	Thank you, too. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Ambassador Marjetka Uhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! All those who follow, welcome! We have before us the law on the prevention of domestic violence in the third reading. Why did it come to him? Surely we face daily stories of violent acts that take place in our society, near, schools, restaurants, jobs, roads, streets, families. We're talking about illegal acts. Even more so, we find the incomprehensible, incomprehensible, tragic stories that often take place among the people closest to us and in the environment that should be most secure, that is in the family. Family is the form of a social cell that offers shelter. And in these cases, it is even worse if family members are victims of any form of violence, rather than receiving support, shelter, a place from which they would grow up to be adults, honest, understanding love, which would prevent violence, nurture. Family members often find it difficult to talk about domestic violence, resulting from fear, threats, beliefs, economic dependence, or simply weakness, weakness. We can understand this from the testimony of a number of victims who decided to speak and act only when the situation was already on the verge of incontinence, and too often it was only when the victims were caused serious bodily harm or even a life - threatening threat. In a relationship hidden behind four walls, it is difficult to interfere, forbidden, pronouncing law enforcement and others. These were excuses and rescues only when it was many times too late or even too late. These excuses are supposed to end with this legal basis. The law protects all members of the family who are victims of violence: weak, weak, especially children, elderly, both from physical and psychological, economic, sexual and any kind of violence. The most powerless victims are certainly children to whom the law pays special attention to protection. It seems particularly important to us to protect children from the resurgence of violence, stigmatization in society, interference, and pressure from the media. Furthermore, victims are protected in the following proceedings, when the court, on a proposal from the victim, can prohibit entry into the common apartment and must leave the apartment to the victim. This clearly indicates that the victim is not the one to withdraw, but the cause. The law also speaks of the need for professional assistance from perpetrators of violence to change their patterns of behaviour. The law was written in order to reduce violence in order to prevent it. We are aware of certain traps and abuses that may occur when, for example, malicious interference with privacy, false reporting, exploitation and the like. That is why it is so important that all those who deal with this issue are adequately and professionally trained, reasonable, intelligent, intelligent, that violence, as abuse, will be recognized and acted appropriately, resolved, prevented. The law gives the centre a curative role to the centres for social work. In addition to the existing powers, the law imposes on them the establishment of multidisciplinary coordination teams for the coordination of all competent institutions. With new tasks, social work centres are given even greater care for responsible treatment when dealing with an individual case. At this point, in the New Slovenia Group, we are again asked: Are the employees of the centres adequately qualified to have the level of complexity of such sensitive topics as domestic violence? In the past, there have been too many mistakes that have led to fatal consequences, and a great deal of caution is needed. We therefore particularly welcome the law in that part which imposes the obligation of regular professional education on all those dealing with the problem of violence. In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposed law because we are aware that we are all jointly responsible for the society in which we live and that we are obliged to offer assistance to the victims. We must become a society with zero tolerance for violence and with a great deal of compassion for the powerless and the help needed. We have already paid a lot of attention to the law in the two previous cases. With him, we want to report that no form of violence is acceptable - anywhere and even in the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I welcome everyone here. On the basis of the provisions of the Marriage and Family Relations Act, if respected, there should be no domestic violence. But our lives are such that we often choose our own understanding of the rules that we agree on together. The purpose and proposal of this law on the issue of prevention of violence, which should not be, is therefore necessary and welcome. The bill itself, at least in a positive sense, was, in the second reading, both in the address of the sent groups and individual Members through the consideration of the amendments, much to be said, so I do not intend to give much thought to this law today. In any case, we are firmly in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that prevention of domestic violence is only possible if we recognize it. Therefore, it is already the case that this law itself deals with a kind of public "controversy" and the recognition of violence, that it is present and that is why the State's action followed by this law is necessary. It is important for us to impose this law on all bodies, and to be publicly called upon to deal with this law, and to the organisations and especially the holders of public powers to assist victims of violence, by prioritising all procedures and measures to protect it, regardless of the form of violence the victim has been exposed to. We welcome the approach followed by this law and aim to create good treatment programmes based on this law, which must be professionally and multi-institutionally coordinated as a very good approach, because effective and within the framework of the civilisation standard can be interference and action only if good cooperation is established between individual institutions, including non-governmental organisations, of course. In this regard, we consider the conclusion of a word binding on this law to be a good marriage. We expect to be closely monitored by the Ministry, which is responsible for these matters, as soon as it enters into force, and, if necessary, to come quickly before this National Assembly with any necessary changes. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Shirca will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u166	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, welcome to your new post! Let me start by saying that it would be great to work in other laws if there was such a high partnership consensus, a partnership that is not written on paper and is not subject to contracts or issues, but to an agreement. Perhaps this was not difficult because it was an area that no one among us wanted to continue to develop in space or to go away if there was violence. This may have made this process of coordination and satisfaction so much easier with a coordinated approach. And I admit that even when we entered into the draft law in Zares to further stimulate, to talk with NGOs or to listen and offer, the open-ended proposalr was a number of things, or something that we felt we needed to think about again, happened. The law is welcome, there is no one among us today who would say otherwise. And I can say that we really need to be careful that it will be implemented in the future when it is enforced. And not only this one, but also those who are associated with it. Sometimes it is good for certain things to grow and ripen for a long time. And this topic has been flattened or in the air and in an attempt to resolve for several years, and it has been dealt with by many institutions, from guardian to former ministers, not just one. When the discussions gathered, which direction to go, it seemed to me that this ministry had also chosen the right direction. After all, as doc says. Dr. Katja Filipčič of the Faculty of Law, which has contributed greatly to this law, are models in the world dealing with violence, widespread domestic violence, many. And it is important, and I think it is also important that you have made up your mind in Slovenia and that we will support the need to combine the model that talks about prevention, punishment and awareness-raising or that this German-Austrian model is even more appropriate, perhaps more than those that have served in Finland or Spain, where civil legislation has been amended by introducing, for example, a ban on approximation. Or a model that some United States states have tried to summarize criminal proceedings and connect them with civilians who deal with domestic violence or who are known in Croatia and France, where they have mainly restricted themselves to amending criminal legislation by introducing new incriminations or amending existing ones. Well, this integrated approach, which Slovenia is facing now, and which, as I say, is in some way also summed up by the Austrian-German principle, means the cooperation of different institutions and means the interaction of different factors. This is fine and we welcome this principle. Which means, once again, sometimes it's good that certain things come to light for a long time and that they are spoken about by experts, those who are involved, and those who, in the end, we, too, decide, both in position and in opposition. We all have to admit that this is not such a simple question. It is not because the data is sometimes too little, due to too much fear or retention of these problems behind the walls and in their hearts, given the consequences that may occur when reporting violence. In addition, this is a topic that affects private public partnership or human rights. And I like that there's a section here, at least at certain times, when it's interfering, if it's good, even in solutions that are dictated by the inviolability of private apartments and so on. When it is said here, no, for the sake of the child or the victim of violence, laws can also be changed where differences are established. That's okay. And that's what we listed today, and you've heard it many times. I am pleased, or in the Group of Members, we are really pleased to see this law remedying the problem that most women face. Domestic violence, sexual harassment, military bullying, mobbing, mental pressures at work. All of this happens most of the time to women. And today it doesn't matter whether it's 80 or 90 percent, it's more data, but in most cases it's violence, the consequences are women. I am sorry that we did not go any further in one of the laws, as stated in the Service Act in the Slovenian Army, where those comments were not heard, where we would clearly define harassment in the military and eliminate those relations that occur in relation to the subordinates: superior. Violence is also a problem of parental and subordinate relationships. And I must say, and I repeat, 88.90% of the victims are women. And it will not hold that one-fifth of the victims are male, but mostly if a woman commits violence against another, she commits violence against a child. The 15, 12% that the stats are talking about, not the man we heard about today. But it doesn't matter. Violence is unacceptable and must be removed. I'd like to appeal to you in the end. It is not just that it is important that laws work, that there is a need to monitor the need for this law to live. It would be important, in the case of domestic violence, to pay attention to that package of unaltered legal provisions in other laws where violence can also be withdrawn. Family code. I agree, the Law on Marriage and Family Relations does not favour or prohibit violence, but may not sanction it enough, and there are not enough guardians here. I am waiting for amendments to the penal code, especially in the direction we discussed that the prosecution could refer the offender to educational programmes, but I should go to prison if, on conditional conviction, if it had been obtained, the prosecutor would not have carried out educational or all of the programme measures that he should have taken in order to "rescind" violence, if I had said so. For example, it may be a bold change in the penal code, but it is recommended. If he receives a conditional but conditioned request for education, awareness and visits to certain institutions that would raise his awareness and eliminate violence if he does not accept it, then he should be sent to prison. I don't think such a penalization would do any harm, but it would make you look like an acknowledgment. Then I am talking about other laws where it is necessary to be careful when adopting. The family code, which is supposed to provide for a ban, was thus promised physical punishment of children, and we have heard that this is to happen, as well as the transfer of certain measures from the Social Protection Centre to the courts. That's a lot. I wouldn't want you, not us, no one else to say, if you, the law we'll adopt, "but I, many women write us, will still not dare to use it because I'll be scared." For example, this discussion and this adoption should put an end to the fears of the consequences, that it should also lead to good examples, as we have heard today, when every raise of hands over anyone, not necessarily over family members, I am no longer allowed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u167	Thank you very much. However, colleague Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State! Let me begin by saying that in the DeSUS Group, we have unanimously supported the proposal for a law on the prevention of violence since the introduction into the legislative procedure. We have supported it both on the home committee and at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, and we will also now contribute to the adoption of this law by all DeSUS Members. We are pleased that we agree with the content of the proposed law by almost all, both coalition and opposition, of course with some different views, but we agree with it globally, but above all we want this system law to be adopted as soon as possible, in view of the past, when there was no political will to regulate this area. Let me repeat the position of the DeSUS Group, which we have already expressed at the second reading of this law, namely to condemn absolutely all violence. And since this phenomenon is a problem of real fundamental human rights, it is the duty of the State to intervene, especially when it comes to violence against those who are actually the most vulnerable and who urgently need immediate assistance. It is our duty, however, to develop a coordinated approach to solving this problem and to assist victims to activate an effective social network, including in cooperation with NGOs and civil society in general, which, according to the DeSUS Group's assessment, is certainly in line with the bill on family violence prevention. We consider DeSUS Members to be promoting a decisive solution to domestic violence. We are aware of the importance of the problem and of the fact that violence in the domestic environment and in partnership is mostly disguised, making it more difficult to recognize and prevent it. We therefore support the proposed idea that this issue is also governed by the law, with a view to establishing a sound and uniform framework for action and action in the field of violence, and not only through resolutions and strategies, but also through less binding guidelines. At the same time, the legal framework also means a commitment to a certain course of action, not only does the victim have the opportunity to expect help from the competent institutions, but he also has the right to request it. Violence in the family and society in general can only be eradicated by the effective response of the whole of society and our Group estimates that the Bill on the Prevention of Violence lays good foundations for building a quality aid system for victims of violence, as well as a basis for a successful fight against all kinds of violence, so, as has already been said, our Group will contribute its voice to the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u169	Thank you very much. And with your performance, we have also concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. And I give my word to Ambassador Bojan Homan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. I will support the marriage myself because I think we must prevent any violence in the family. But it is my firm belief that when this law enters into force, there is something very wrong in the family, and we must do everything we can to ensure that this law does not come to pass. Preventing domestic violence can only be solved through education, conversation, dialogue. I'm going to tell myself a lesson that the late old mother gave me when I got married myself, and she said, "Boy, there are going to be a lot of crises in the marriage as well, a lot of problems, but know if you're going to fight in the day, let's get this thing going tonight.".. This means that in the evening, before he falls asleep, the matter should be discussed, the matter resolved, and the next day, when you wake up, when you go on a new day, you go with new energy, no problems. However, if a family dialogue does not continue in the law, marriages or partners are on the way to a crisis in marriage or family violence sooner or later. What is written in this law, is there too much or is there too little? It's hard to write everything because there are so many forms of violence in marriage, in the family, from older children to violence against women, there is also violence against men. The victims of domestic violence are also if we continue to go from pets to plates, TV sets, and what is still being read to break up, to happen in the family. And everything in the marriage is hard to write. But we need to do everything we can to talk about this. The task of the media, journalists, television houses, radio houses is that we have as many shows as possible, as many contact shows as possible, to talk about violence, because only through conversation, through open dialogue can this violence be reduced. I myself will be happy to support this bill and will also be supported by my fellow Members' Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u171	Thank you very much, colleague Homan. The word has magic. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u172	I also agree that violence must be prevented and eliminated wherever it is, either in the street or in the school or in the family. However, this law, which is prepared, kind of stigmatizes the family because it comes from the so-called criminalization of the family. This is actually partly due to that famous sentence. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Can I discuss it or are we all going to be together? Thanks a lot, buddy. So the famous sentence of the former Ombudsman that family is the most dangerous environment for man. [[...]] Of course, he exaggerated or spoke the truth, but he brought very serious unrest into Slovenian society. This law puts only one spouse at the forefront of the debate at the international ministerial level on gender equality and equal rights for both sexes. We're kind of taking rights from the so-called only bully in the family, father. In fact, we also take the child's fundamental right to both parents. Not directly, but indirectly, that's what's going to happen to us. In the absence of adequate accompanying legislation, the law does not in fact solve anything. It will even increase the gender gap, for in this intimate space individual spouses who are not satisfied with another spouse will take the tools into their own possession, with which they will resolve the conflict - a companion and a lawyer. And tell me, when in an intimate dispute, at first, not after they were court-martialed, the lawyer and the escort who called his spouse in anger, that was the solution. These are things that are very problematic. Slovenia will be even more conflicted in its intimate space and the result will be more broken laws and more work for social work centres. However, the Centre for Social Work has not proved much to be involved in the resolution of these conflicts. Many times it has been pointed out that they are not prepared, even in this professional sense, to be prepared primarily for administrative proceedings, to issue decisions and decisions, but certainly not for the resolution of intimate conflicts, or to be able to resolve such conflicts within the family in a way that the country enters the family. Yeah. It's a matter of this law. How can a country enter a family intimate environment when it comes to privacy? What, then, would have to be changed if I had already made some critical remarks? A key is the criminal code, the criminal provisions, when violence occurs to be dealt with in an appropriate, exact and quick way. That we have the possibility that those who are injured, who are victims of violence, are protected in an appropriate way, including with their mothers' homes, including with their fathers' homes, as they have recently expressed themselves, and that they are rapidly proceeding. But not right away in the first conflict. That is why it is necessary to train us people, citizens, young boys and girls, to enter into partnerships, to make marriages. We've been studying for many years. For the most important profession in life that most of us choose, and this is the law, and we learn nothing, we prepare nothing. And how to solve conflicts, how to understand another sex, which is different in thinking, how it perceives the other sex differently, and how it respects it. This should be the content of what we would define as a centre of social work, the law on social protection and perhaps another provision. In order for those spouses to face violence, not just violence, so that they can defend themselves. I can firmly say that violence occurs in both sexes, but it's different. Maybe male violence is physical violence. Women's violence is different, and it also unleashes a certain kind of violence. But I don't want to drag any parallels here. It doesn't matter. These are proposals that should actually be taken into account in such a law. There's something else to conclude. None of the European countries, as I know, have adopted a special law to prevent domestic violence. They were individual provisions relating to this violence and how to solve it. Especially in criminal laws and similar regulations. The law itself, the law thus labels and stigmatizes the family. That's not good. Apparently, the family has fewer lawyers these days. But there are a lot of people who accuse her.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I invite Ambassador Bogdan Barovic to the floor. [[He's not here.]] Member Dusan Kumer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u174	Thank you for the floor, Mr President-in-Office. I'm going to touch on a little discussion by my colleague John, who now finally said, and I'm going to ask him if he knows the number of laws that this country or the National Assembly has put in the family environment. This is one of the laws, but it's a series, and in the end, I'm going to give an illustrative example of how we "interfer" into the family environment and how we influence from the outside. I myself support this bill's proposal, and especially because a number of things have been cleared and complemented by the third reading. Since the debate on this topic of domestic violence in this Chamber just less than three years ago, a really big step has been taken since, if I recall correctly, there was no excessive interest in special law by the executive branch or ministry. It has even been said that a special law on family violence is not necessary because it is a phenomenon of violence, which is a general social phenomenon, so it is not possible to treat domestic violence separately or separately, but we need to address it globally, in an integrated way through some other laws. So once again, the proposal for a law is actually progress in the level of social awareness that domestic violence is a phenomenon that also has consequences in a wider social environment. I'm twisting this thesis the other way around. Many myths are entwined around the family, most of which are sooner and more often more harmful than useful. Those who are convinced of the idealized image of the family, and even today we have heard it, at the same time deny the suffering of the victims in this family due to denial of family reality. It's any victim. This means that if there is no problem, it is minimised, as it was done today and even in the previous discussion. Neither does anyone need to be helped, nor does anyone need to be sanctioned, there are no victims and there is no one who has done this. But the fact is that everyone who faces this issue is acknowledged that there is much more violence in the family in Slovenia than statistics show. And it is my hope that this law will help us to obtain more reliable statistics and in this way, through the measures defined in this law, also reduce this social evil or, as the Secretary of State has said today, this rejection act. Therefore, it is high time for Slovenia to get this law, which will bring more protection to the victims and, above all, the chances of staying in the environment that is practiced. However, violent people will be bolder to show this red card, because violence is always the responsibility of the person who executes it, so I can’t agree to it most often with arguments, various and different excuses by defending the perpetrators of violence at the end of everything turns to the victim. Of course, the law itself will not be able to solve anything unless certain conditions are provided for its implementation. Therefore, I am of the opinion that only then will this law solve this problem in full. And in the end, I can't get past another fact that I'd like to point out, and at first I said I'd tell it. It cannot be kept silent that one of the causes of conflict within the family, which also has the effect of violence, is the conduct of authorities at all levels. We're in the National Assembly, too. And yesterday's debate, however anyone looks at these issues on social transfers, on the social and existential state of people who have the lowest incomes, on incomes, are the themes that revolutionize these same people - lack of money, low wages, low pensions and so on, are the reasons for whether or not they have admitted it, the causes of conflict in this family environment. And the consequences of this are not just within the family, but also outside violence or mobbing in this family environment or family. Therefore, it is good that every time we adopt laws, even in this National Assembly, we think that we can be one of the perpetrators of this domestic violence in this National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Veršnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear Madam Secretary! I could say that it is very sad that today in the 21st century we need to talk about violence in the family, in this information society, in this advanced society, in this modern society, educated, educated, with all possible institutions such as psychologists, various medical interventions and so on, this violence is actually very bad, so bad that before the adoption of the law on the prevention of domestic violence. Usually, even here today, it's a man who's committed violence against women and children. This is where I heard it. Things are the other way around. We sometimes hear that women are violent, but this is an isolated case, and it's probably why they're not so grumpy. I think it's the foundation of the whole family, this base cell that grows from little legs, and at the same time it's a model for those who come after us. What are our families like today? This is one of the questions we should answer. What exactly is our value in this family? Nowadays it is increasingly lying in front of TV receivers, drinking, shopping centers and enjoying the moment of free work. That the only one who can raise the family is probably the only one here in Parliament, because we have actually taken away the role of educator. The police are powerless, too, if we're being completely honest. There are no appropriate mechanisms to prevent violence effectively. I hope and I am sure that this law today is one of those who will also give this repressive body some strength and opportunity to prevent the worst. As I said at the outset, those warmths of acceptance, the safe haven offered by the family, no one can actually offer. However, we are devoting ourselves to children who will carry this seal through with them. And the example of the family will also be the example of the child’s family and ideal in life. If someone has enjoyed a fine youth in the safe haven of the family, he will also tolerate it for his offspring. This is indisputable and I think that I have made it clear enough that priority should be focused primarily on prevention, preventively managed family and education for a common life. We have already heard similar directions here today, but as with all things, prevention is getting better than curative. Therefore, I consider this law to be an important part, some curative and something actually preventative, because those who are violent, who may be a little hard on the wall with this law, will probably think differently the first time they encounter it and try to behave differently. More attention needs to be paid to preventing bad relations. However, when there are deviants such as violence, professional help is needed if, of course, there is more to be done if we have not already missed it. A lot of deviants show up pretty soon, but we don't know her or we don't want to see her. That is what young people should be taught and prepared for life. What the honourable fellow said, Mr Petty Officer, I think it is quite right. The biggest leap in life is, I think, a marriage that also begins to create a family. But as ill-prepared as we are to enter into this marriage, I don't think we're for any profession, not even for the chauffeur. I think there is still a lot to be done in this area. Marriage is not just honey and milk, marriage puts us on the real ground, marriage leads us to various trials, and we need to support you, trials in life, not just in a partnership, even in the family. I mean, once again, I stress that prevention needs to be given more space and more energy directed towards prevention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! I must say, I am pleased that we have reached the end of this legislative procedure, the law on the prevention of domestic violence. Although it is true that I would be even more pleased if we did not need such a law in Slovenia. But unfortunately, the reality is different. Let me start by saying this, the marriage will be a foundation. But the law itself will not solve the matter. As one of the Members said before, we already have a provision in the marriage law, which states that it must not be in the law of violence, but we know that the provision itself cannot prevent what is happening in the family, and I would rather say, in society, it is happening. When we talk about domestic violence, we need to say a broader word. It is necessary to say the word on violence in society. Family is just one small segment. Unfortunately, I have to say that I feel that violence in society is on the rise, in general. Violence is on the rise among young people, violence is on the rise in school, and it is already occurring in kindergarten, and so on. That there's violence on the road. And this violence is absolutely, absolutely too much. I also think that family is the base cell on which it depends a lot. If the children in the family have a beautiful childhood, if they have a paradise on earth in the family, I am sure they will try to create such a paradise later in their family. Like many children on earth in the family, unfortunately many of the children also experience hell on earth, hell in the family. And what should we do to reduce this violence in society and try to eliminate it? I'm sure it's education first. He's raising at home. But only home education is not enough. Especially for those children who live in a family where violence occurs. Surely, there is no such training that would later help him to be different. Marriage school is a school where very few young people are involved. Here I think that we should do more to support young people really getting ready for the demanding profession of husband, wife, father or mother. I went to two and a half years myself, almost three years of this kind of marriage school, and I have to say that I only discovered a lot of things there, even though I would be very close to getting married, when I was doing this law school, I found out how many things I don't know yet. And today I hope to say that this school has given me for marriage that I can create a warm home for my children, that I live with my wife in understanding, because it takes a lot of effort to do so, and it is much easier because I have been warned about many of these things in advance. In addition to the law school, I think we should encourage a school for parents in Slovenia. This school already appears in a number of regular schools, even in kindergartens, it is already introduced as some kind of course, because this school, too, that we know how to be real and good parents, is necessary. And finally, I'm gonna touch the media. Why the media? The media are the ones who make this general public opinion, which people like to sum up and take for ourselves. I would expect the media to create an opinion in Slovenian society that violence is bad, that violence is something ugly, that violence is something unacceptable. Unfortunately, there's not enough of that today. That's not enough talk. That's not enough. The media often exploit the violence that occurs in society, more than the attraction, rather than raising the burden on their media. Let me end by gladly supporting this law, giving my vote for, with the desire to at least partially eliminate the violence that is occurring in the family. But there is more in Parliament and in the Government to do more to address the other violence that is occurring in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u179	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraeva.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u180	Good-bye, everyone. Today, for the third time in the National Assembly, we are talking about the law on the prevention of domestic violence. Otherwise, we have been talking about this subject for several years, at various round tables and other similar meetings. I believe that this area needs to be regulated because the practice shows that we have been ineffective in preventing violence. But I don't feel it myself as if we're trying to say that it's violence and that the main problem is domestic violence. Violence, as some colleagues have already said, is generally growing, according to some data, and as much as possible must be done to prevent or reduce violence. There's also no analysis to say that there's a lot of violence in the family. It is more about perception and comparison with other countries. But it is certainly important that we pay attention to this segment, that is, what is happening in our environment, what is happening in our families, because this is actually the most important environment for young people. The practice has shown that despite the fact that we had several institutions that were supposed to be competent and should in such cases, i.e. in cases of domestic violence, act, we discussed at round tables and meetings all the time that it is not clear who must react, who must act, what must be done by which service. Moreover, the services were also poorly linked, they did not exchange data, and they were, of course, ineffective in solving these problems. I think it's a little unfair for some people to say that social work centers haven't done their job. There's a lot of people at the centers who've worked hard and tried to do the best they can. But as we say, then there was a lack of that sequel or some segment before that, so police action or something. I therefore support the law itself on the prevention of domestic violence, because I am convinced that the law or the law contains all the necessary measures that will help to reduce violence and prevent violence in all segments, and first of all in the family, to be effective and successful.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u182	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues. If the dilemma and the question of whether provincial laws will receive two-thirds support is, of course, an excluded dilemma here, that the proposal for a law on the prevention of domestic violence would not receive the majority of the support of all Members and Members. Today's the third treatment, we've talked a lot, many of us have talked about those debates that we've just given a rich, tragic experience in the family's environment of violence. There was also something that was not said in the microphone between the parliamentary benches, and I will now say it publicly. It was heard that a lot of domestic violence ended up in bed at night, with good sex. And I will continue that only then can violence, sexual violence against one another, man against woman or woman against man begin in bed. Well, that's enough of that. Above all, I think it is very important to emphasise some of the essential content of this law, the scope of which has not been covered by this bill, has not been systematically regulated. Therefore, it is necessary to express all recognition to the Ministry, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry, which has prepared the content of the system law, which we have supplemented in our deliberations by Members and Members. Many good proposals have been made, many good proposals have also been taken into account and incorporated into the content of this law. If to date the repressive authority has been the police, who had the only so-called credible data, how much and what kind of violence in the family we know in the Republic of Slovenia, how much more worrying it is, of course, because by adopting this law it will be the task of those who are more professionally engaged in preventing domestic violence than it has been so far. When we adopt and confirm this law on the prevention of domestic violence, many obligations are just beginning. Not only some institutions already in existence today, but also some civil associations and others, which also play an important role in this area and can make a significant contribution to the prevention of domestic violence. However, with the content of this law, I have looked in detail at some of the key articles where our work, i.e. the Member and Members, as well as the Government, continues. In Article 10a of the proposal, the so-called national programme states: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall, on a proposal from the Government, adopt a national programme for the prevention of domestic violence for a period of five years." This is said to be again difficult work, and especially the ministry and others, who will participate in the preparation of the content of this national programme. I am confident that this national programme will contain all those elements as specified, because it will only be possible to implement the remaining provisions or individual articles of the content of this Act professionally and substantively. The next thing I know what's very important to me is the so-called action plan. It will also take a lot of expertise and a lot of effort and work to make this action plan as required by the next 10.b Article. And what worries me, on the one hand, is that if I am under-expert, those who will prepare further content in an expert manner, meet this article, which imposes additional tasks on social work centres in particular. Here I think it is very important to talk about this, because Members and Members of Parliament come from different backgrounds. We work in our parliamentary offices, where we have had the opportunity to meet both those who are experiencing domestic violence and those who, due to institutional involvement so far, have been those who have been professionally involved in the integration and resolution of work. I'm re-emphasizing social work centres here. I am confident that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will also take an important step in this area. I say this because I come from concrete data that social work centres do not have everything they need, what they should have or what brings back the adoption of this law. I am sure that the Ministry will have enough hearing here and that, despite certain requirements for the reduction of the number of employees, it will, however, be able to complete the required staffing posts necessary to do so because the content of this law provides that it may be implemented. Of course, this is also a question of spatial solutions and so on. I'm not saying this because I'd have a problem with whether I'm in favor of this marriage or not. Far from it. I would just like to point out that these are the facts that many of us have come to know on the ground, even at not only one social work centre, but also several social work centres where they have similar problems. Here I am trying to appeal to the competent ministry to try to do everything necessary in this regard to make the content of this law, which, as it has been established, is good, not only that it is good that we have had the opportunity of MEPs and Members, but also that other institutions really substantively build up and upgrade the content of this law, so I would like that when we confirm it; I believe that this law will receive a great deal of support from Members and Members, and that when the content is confirmed, we really want, not I, I believe that my fellow Members and colleagues, that the content of this law, as soon as possible, would be able and possible to implement it as soon as possible. For this is our important step towards the beginning of the prevention of domestic violence, whose content of the law on the prevention of domestic violence will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u183	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. The law itself cannot solve the problem, but some inaccurate information just needs to be demarcated. It has been said that Slovenia will be the only country with a law on the prevention of domestic violence. Even such a traditionalist society as Cyprus has a law on domestic violence for a long time from Slovenia. In addition, the neighbouring Austria should be mentioned as well as a whole species. But it is not at all about whether the law is so special, but it is about whether the legislation is so laid down that this act, which is an act of repudiation, is also recognized as a crime and we also have ready measures against violence. And what I think is very good and what I see progress is that when I compare our discussions in the National Assembly a few years ago and now, I find that a substantial number of Members are very responsibly involved in these debates. And that's what I'm glad about because it's the involvement of men in preventing domestic violence that's essential. And when I was taught in various trainings how to convince men to face this problem, as a big problem, also as a problem that can be eradicated, because the core of the problem is so in a different distribution of power between the sexes, it's actually that we recognize domestic violence as an act of rejection, that men against violence are advertised because you are not all male perpetrators of violence, and because it's worth fighting against violence, because you are a man and you don't want your daughters or grandchildren to have that happen. We would also find a number of reasons why we can hope that an open discussion of these problems will later prove to be less and less. For example, I find Turkish experience very interesting. The media intervened in the debate on domestic violence by finding that the Turkish, Islamic culture was such that it was not inclined to have mercy on the victim. And they turned the story around because then the victim was further victimized, but they turned the story around and started discussing those who caused violence, not talking about victims of violence, but talking about perpetrators of violence. So I think there's room for what else to do. Above all, it is important that we start talking about this and that we are aware of each other's work. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u185	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm opening applications for anyone who wants to discuss it. Mrs. Shirca, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u186	The third reading was interesting but was expected in some places. And I must say, thank God that the debate on this law has ended, otherwise we would get new articles, at least as colleague Han suggested, which sees the possibility of dealing with domestic violence in such a way that disputes arise in the evening, and those who arise in the morning in the family, and those who resolve in other places in the evening. Or that proposal that was made by former Minister Drobnic, who appealed to some educational measures in the making of family ties, that is to say marriage schools. We may already be close to the proposal recently made that marriages should last only for a limited period of time. That's what we've heard abroad in Austria, seven years, and then we'd test again. The solutions to domestic violence have been fairly wickedly given in this area today. So the bedroom is the one that saves violence, but on the other hand, it's the maid who saves weddings.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u187	Thank you. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u188	Thank you. I'd like to continue where I actually quit. However, violence within the family is such that it must not be ignored and relativized by any cultural specification. This is so important. When I first asked myself, is it really the core of all of this that some people are so concerned with the question of why we are not talking about violence against men, I would just remind you that in this manual we have translated, you can also find this as one of the most common questions people ask themselves: Why is it never about violence against men in the family? It is simply that violence against women is so much more pronounced, because it is an ingrained relationship between the sexes, where the distribution of power was known on whose side, and therefore there was never so much talk about violence against those who had no power. On the contrary, it is not said that this is violence against men, which no one denies, but it is not statistically not as high as Irgle’s former colleague said that this is one fifth of all violence in a family of violence against men, of course, if we count boys, children, then if children were sex classified as victims of violence, the picture would change. But speaking of adults, the story is quite different. At all levels, even in the United Nations, violence against women is found to be a reflection of a historically unequal relationship and is therefore so much more common. Either we tolerate him or we don't, but that's another thing. I don't think we should tolerate him. And when I spoke earlier on behalf of the parliamentary group about the attitude towards punishment, the physical punishment of children. Just remember what our patterns are like when we think about our view of physical punishment of children. This has until recently been regarded as professionally unacceptable only in school. The teacher at school, to illustrate, was not allowed to physically punish a child. What's going on at home, and that's not what's going on. And here we have to take that extra step to see that this cannot be done, because I specifically stress that violence continues as a behavioural pattern. And it is statistically evident that all those children who were victims of violence themselves are often later as adults who caused violence. As far as the work of individual institutions is concerned, I think that is all I need to stress. It is very easy to criticise the work of social work centres that enter the moment when the crisis is so great that two or three in a family of relationships are no longer able to resolve each other in peace. And if two adults can't talk, inclusion of a third is necessary. Whether it will be welcome for both of them and if they accept it is another problem. However, I think that we have done all too often, even because of the media coverage of some individual excessive cases, as a society, we have also committed additional violence against children who have already been in the family or who have witnessed violence. And that is why I think it is so important that we introduce into media legislation articles that would also sanction in the media the inadmissibility of showing all those phenomena in which violence against children is also committed in the family. This is essential in order to prevent children from becoming subject to public treatment and additional victimisation in the face of what they have experienced. Besides, I think we're up against doing something good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-01-30-SDZ4-Redna-35.ana.u189	Thank you. This concludes the debate. The draft law will be decided on Friday, 1 February, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 35th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you for participating.
