ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u1	Good morning, good afternoon, fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 41st meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that they cannot attend today's session or are excused: colleagues of Feri Horvat, Victory of Jelinčič nobles, Miran Jerič, Rudolf Moge, Anton Rop, Boštjan Zagorac and Milan Petek. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A SPIRITUAL HEALTH LAW, IN THE context of a regular procedure. I'd like to inform you that we have 4 hours and 10 minutes for this point. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and I give the floor to the representative of the Government. With us is Minister Zofija Mazej Kukovic, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u2	Good morning, honourable Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! A high representative of the Norwegian government ran out of exhaustion years ago one morning. He said it was completely empty. In addition to feeling very bad inside him, his body also gave up. Of course, the press was outside the door. He called a doctor who said it was a major depression. He decided to tell the press that he would speak openly and also offer his resignation. It has not been accepted, it has openly spoken, it has been treated, it has continued to be a policy, and today it promotes the desigmation of mental health throughout Europe and around the world. He's one of the few in high places who's made up his mind about it. The purpose of our Law on Mental Health is to protect human rights, people with mental health problems. It's a protection of their dignity. The Constitutional Court has already decided in 2003 that we need a law, that we need a regulation that will define the conditions for possible enforcement. We have 100,000 people with mental health problems, depression problems, and this number is increasing. It is particularly growing in the elderly, and this is also becoming a massive phenomenon in Europe. The number of suicides is twice the number of deaths in traffic accidents, about 600 per year, which is an extraordinary loss for the country, for the family, for all of us. With the proposal for a law, we want to move on to a comprehensive examination of mental health. We also want to carry treatment closer to home, so that there will also be the possibility of controlled treatment at home, treatment in the community, the establishment of a whole network, an institutional network that will allow us to do so. In particular, it also defines the right to an agent. The right to have no one to be able to deal with a person who has a mental disorder, not to be able to make his own decisions. So there is still someone else, in this case, through the amendments and through the debate, also in the Health Committee, we went in the direction of a team of three psychiatrists instead of an ethical commission, two of them could be from an institution where the patient is being treated and one had to be external. So we want things to be open, transparent and truly in the protection of the patient and in respect for his integrity. The proceedings before a court, for reception without consent, are also sufficiently precise and speak of the possibility of restricting rights and forcible apprehension only when it comes to the threat of the State, when a person endangers himself or threatens others. Under this law, a national programme is also envisaged, which will define activities within the framework for the next five years. Tolerance to one another is one that can greatly help us to improve our inner feelings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In the framework of the legislative procedure, the proposal was considered by the Health Committee as a parent working body. The Committee President, Mr Ljubo Germič, will present the position and the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health is held at its regular 33rd meeting, on 1. Seven. 2008 discussed the proposal for a law on mental health submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and reception. In accordance with Rule 22 of the Rules of Procedure, the Group of Members submitted a request on 29 April this year for a general discussion on the draft law. The general debate was held at the 39th regular meeting of the National Assembly, where it was concluded that the proposal for a Law on Mental Health was suitable for further consideration. In addition to the text of the proposal, members and members of the Committee received the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, the opinion of the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia and the opinion of the Council of Justice. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 27 of the Rules of Procedure, the legislative and legal service has examined that proposal from the point of view of its competence and has drawn up comments in its very broad opinion on most of the articles of the bill. Ms Zofija Mazej Kukovic, Minister of Health, gave an introductory explanation for the bill. She stressed that the proposed Law on Mental Health required very good and extensive cooperation between experts and the public concerned, on the one hand, and also between the competent ministries, namely the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. On the basis of the legislation adopted, a national mental health programme will be drawn up, in which matters will be more fully operationalised. The Minister stressed in particular that the law had been regulated, prepared and coordinated for a number of years due to extremely difficult problems. The opinion of the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection, Work, Health, Disabled Persons was presented by Mr. Peter Požun, Minister of State. He stressed that the Commission supports and proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that it adopt it as soon as possible. Within the time limit set by the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the bill were tabled by the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, the LDS MPs and the Ambassadors of Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. The amendments tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups followed most of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion on almost all the articles of the proposal. The members of the Committee supported all amendments tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS, did not support the amendment of the LDS Club to Article 2 and to Article 30a. The other amendments of the LDS MPs and Members of the Zalokar Orazem Cvete to Article 11 have been withdrawn and have become irrelevant amendments of the coalition and the LDS MP to Article 11. The Committee has itself drafted and adopted an amendment to Article 11 of the bill. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Committee then voted on and adopted all articles of the draft law together. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee set out the text of the amended draft law, which was also an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u5	Thank you very much. At its 39th meeting, the assembly held its first reading of the draft law and it is therefore not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which I will lead on the basis of the review of the amendments of 9.7. this year. In this way, I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Does anyone want to discuss it in connection with Article 1? [[Nobody.]] I then put to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the LDS Group. Anybody want to discuss this? I'm opening the application procedure, please. Member Ljubo Germić has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the LDS, we propose to add a new point to the article explaining the terms used in this law, in order to complement this article with a new point to add a new point defining the specific treatment methods that appear in this law. With this amendment, we want to define, in terms of terms, that there are special treatment methods, i.e. two methods, it is electroconvulsive therapy and hormonal treatment. In this way, we are also interfering with the contents of Article 11 which we will discuss in the amendment to Article 11. Of course, I would just like to draw attention to this link, because it will then be possible to explain the content of this amendment by the contents of the amendment to Article 11. We point out that it would be correct to define these specific treatment methods as a specific point in Article 2, where the terms used in this Act are accurately described. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? The secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Article 2 sets out the meaning of the terms used in this law and practically does not define specific treatment methods, but only lists them. Therefore, we believe that specific treatment methods are more appropriately defined in Article 11 of the bill, which also regulates these treatments in a comprehensive manner, including psycho-surgical treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u9	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate in conjunction with Article 2. We are moving on to a debate in conjunction with Article 4 and the amendment of SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to discuss this? [[Nobody.]] Then we move on to Article 11 and the amendment of the LDS Group. Anybody want to discuss this? Your word, Comrade Germitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. One more time. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service already referred to the need for this law to be fully amended by the Health Committee. The legislative and legal service has pointed out that the law-making system was very poor and we have changed a number of articles from a legal point of view. We have also completely amended Article 11. We changed it by doing this with the amendment of the committee on the committee itself. Nor did the amendment of the coalition, which was tabled within the expected deadline for the amendment, provide an appropriate solution. Where was this inadequacy of a solution? Therefore, Article 11 defines specific treatment methods and prescribes exceptions under the conditions laid down, so how it can be used. The basic text of the law provided for an important role to be played by the Commission on Medical Ethics in decisions on specific treatment methods. The Commission for Medical Ethics shall confirm the decision of the treating doctor or give the opposite opinion. When we discussed this in the first place, i.e. in the general debate, we were not at the time, and even later, as the amendment of the coalition, which was tabled for the second reading of the law, was still an emphasis on the use of these special treatment methods being decided by the Commission on Medical Ethics. However, it turned out that the applicant was mistaken here. If that were not the case, then today we would not have a completely different solution at this point, where it is assumed that this particular treatment method will be used - and three - decided by the Consilience, that is to say, a special council of professions, which is significantly more appropriate than the Commission on Medical Ethics, with all due respect for all members of the Commission on Medical Ethics. But after talking to individual members, and especially with the President, it turned out that this solution was not appropriate. On the basis of the debate on the Committee, we have amended the text of this Article in a way that replaces the content at this point, where, instead of the Commission's opinion or decision on medical ethics, a consul consisting of at least three psychiatrists or psychiatrists has been introduced, and at least one must be outside a psychiatric hospital that treats a particular person. And the very important question raised in this article was: How will psychotropic drugs be used at a value that exceeds the maximum prescribed dose? And it's now up to the consuls. The question is why. Is this really how we follow what the proposer tells us that we want to achieve full security for the patient involved in these special methods at the same time in relation to the profession? I would like to point out that there is no such case anywhere in Slovenian legislation, where any healthcare professional would be asked to make such a decision, which is taken by the profession, into law and put it under question by law. Here, of course, the question is whether this solution will be correct, whether this solution will not in practice lead to mistrust. I would like to draw here again the President's warning from the medical society, which has also warned of this. This was also pointed out in the Committee's discussion where individual health professionals as members of this Committee have pointed out that, of course, the diction in this article is about how to define the use of psychotropic medicinal products at values exceeding the maximum prescribed dose. Is that a real diction? We were there quickly and then amended this dictatorship in a way that would make this dictatorship better. But the question arises whether and how confidence in the profession is placed, at the same time with respect and with the full protection of the one who will receive such therapy. Whether the solution, which is written here, is intended for this purpose or not, is more of a discipline than a proper solution or an optimisation of solutions in the process of human treatment. That's the dilemma. And what will be the practice, given that experts in this profession have warned me that the law applies to completely all psychotropic drugs, where there are significant differences in professional attitudes towards individual medicines. What attitude will this solution take? They warn us, in this case there may be difficulties in implementation and that of course we have someone, I would say, a special solution in this law, which we do not use elsewhere in the healthcare sector, as in this case. Of course, the dilemma remains. Any abuse must be prevented, but then there is the question of how someone who decides to do so will decide on values that exceed the maximum prescribed dose. And that's what we've been alerting you to. We have been alerting the inadequacy of this article at all times. We are experiencing changes from treatment to treatment, it is improving, it must be acknowledged that it is improving, but in our view this decision is still not enough. Therefore, we propose a solution that completely amends this Article, of course in conjunction with Article 2 and with the amendment to Article 2. We propose that this article should record, that in applying these special treatment methods, that, in accordance with the global doctrine, with the knowledge of the profession, with the most modern knowledge of the profession, we record that these methods and all health measures are applied in proportion to their purpose, in relation to this profession, to the confidence of this profession, at the same time as all safeguards. And I'm sure that the law has introduced a series of safeguards through this law so that there are no possible mistakes, such as potential abuse. I wouldn't want to talk about it in confidence with the profession, but with respect to the healer, the relatives and the profession. And here it seems to us that, by amending this article, by changing the way we apply these special methods, we could create a solution that would be more correct in relation to all of those I have previously counted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support this amendment in the Lip Group of Members. I personally have a different opinion than the speaker in front of me. I'll explain why. Article 11 sets out very clearly on both sides what the rules of the game should be or, if expressed, provides for safeguards. And among these safeguards, for example, the first paragraph of this article states: "Special treatment methods may be performed only exceptionally, under the conditions laid down in this law and only in psychiatric hospitals." In the second paragraph, specific methods are defined. The third paragraph even states: "Psycho-surgery treatment in the Republic of Slovenia is not permitted." Thank God we have this written down in law, in law. In order not to read everything, the last paragraph of Article 12, paragraph 11, says: "Youths are not allowed to be treated with special treatment methods." Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think it is right that we have an article within the framework of a law that clearly defines what psychiatric treatment is permitted and what is unacceptable in the context of psychiatric treatment. I believe you will agree that the area of mental health is a very sensitive area. And that there have been many errors, many inadmissibilitys, in this area of psychiatric treatment. And you know, that's the kind of thing that happens today. What a small person he is when he finds himself facing a system of psychiatric treatment! I'm going to remind you of that story, and it really hurts me, the helpless girl they put against her will in a psychiatric hospital, and no one, not even the guardian of human rights, can help. I wonder why? Because maybe it comes from the same profession? I say that it is right that the Law on Mental Health lays down clear rules of the game, to rule out the smallest possibility of irregularities happening or things contrary to the will of the individual. And let me remind you, my fellow Members and colleagues, also the owners and users of these services agree with the proposed law. It is true, however, that one of the main opponents of this law was Dr. Ziherl, who belongs to a group of Members or a party, I apologize, LDS. And I believe that this is also one of the key reasons why the LDS Group is putting forward this amendment. With this amendment, respected colleagues and colleagues, you would like to delete the entire contents of Article 11 which, as already said, has a clear safeguard or, if you want the rules of the game, I will give full authority to psychiatrists or say so. "...health measures must be proportionate to their purpose." It is permissible to use all those medical measures to address the causes that directly led to admission to a closed psychiatric hospital and are consistent with the knowledge of the profession. That's not enough. If this amendment were adopted, such an article is incomplete. Such an article allows too much open doors for individuals, psychiatrists. I have nothing against them, far from it, I believe they are experts in their field. But I'm telling you, I'm putting my heart at heart because I know the stories of people, minors, children who are placed in psychiatric hospitals against their will and who are not even able to make decisions by their superiors, doctors, psychiatrists, contacts with their relatives, with their own mother. This is happening today. If we have the opportunity to take protective measures under the law, then let us take these safeguards within the framework of the law. I'm saying that even psychiatrists have to be responsible for things that, God forbid they should be, but they're going wrong. Article 11, the content of Article 11, as is currently recorded under the law, has been corrected on the home working body, I say once again, given certain protections. And I say that the better content of article 11 is the amendment you propose in the Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u13	Thank you very much. We have three more panellists to report. The first one has the word of a Member of the Council of the Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. We are probably all happy today that we have the law on mental health in Parliament right at the last session of this reference and that it will probably also receive the necessary support. Finally, we waited 15, 18 years for him, and he's here as he is. Better than nothing, you could say. In this respect, it is clear from Article 11 that the law is still incomplete at certain points and that some solutions are not the most premeditated and most meaningful. But anyway, even in the Group of Members, we do have doubts about supporting Article 11. Today we will be following this debate, because no matter what, it seems to us that Article 11 has been relatively corrected. However, it must be said that we have great fear, because I think that we have adopted over 90 amendments to the law on the committee and I am very afraid that the law will need to be upgraded in the future. However, I must say that in this sense I would also like to commend and in some way commend the Minister of Health, that she has cut this multi-annual, we can say that the consecrated coordination of this law and that, although the law was not the priority of this short term in her programme at first, this has changed. And I am glad that she too has personally engaged in this marriage, so this should be commended. We have, of course, contributed a great deal here, in Parliament, to a number of Members and Members of Parliament, who in the last year have also been exerting certain pressures, particularly with NGOs, to bring this law to fruition. I think the basic intentions of marriage are correct. And also with regard to Article 11, it seems to me that the things referred to in this Article, which is one of the key articles, remain. Maybe we'll fix them sometime in the future. We talked about this a lot on the committee. The key to the way in which specific methods are approved is corrected, and this seems very important to me. However, I think it would be right to mention today in this room the name which is unfortunately no longer between us, which, I think, would be today, as we will be, and I think that many Members and Members, are glad that the law is just before the adoption - this is psychiatrist Andrej Marušič. I think it is the law, if I judge it primarily from this point of view - he has invested several years of his work in it and he has also been the coordinator for mental health at national level and has mainly worked for something that even within the psychiatric profession has not always had a uniform view of this matter. And in part this is also the content of this Article 11. But what he wanted in the first place is to introduce a representative, an institution of counsel, to introduce the law to someone who, in addition to the profession or in some way, is also suffering over a number of people, I will say, difficult decisions related to the treatment of such patients and, above all, in connection with forced hospitalisation, that the circle of experts who make the decision is expanding. I think that this is where the objective that he has also advocated is achieved, and in particular this objective has been achieved in the care of these patients in the post-hospital phase from the shoulders of the relatives to the shoulders of the country. And in this sense, it seems to me that we are somehow this desire to adopt such a law in Slovenia, such a human law and to engage the whole society. That seems very important to me. From now on, a whole range of other people, institutions, social services and educational institutions will be involved in this segment in addition to the narrow circle of psychiatrists and those in hospitals, especially in the post-hospital phase. And here I think it's extremely important that this is open. Of course, the law itself will not bring anything. It will be an important practice, the involvement of all these institutions, including local communities, will be important, and I hope that this was, I think, a vision that has the potential in the future, to also lead to mental illness in some way also getting closer to everyone else, as it was said in the introduction, that this is not something that would give rise to some kind of amazement, but it is also becoming part of our daily life because such cases, such patients, are becoming more and more, because things are on the rise and because it is right that we are all dealing with these things, because, ultimately, we can be very quickly also patients or patients themselves. What I still think is to say about this is that the law does not solve one of the very serious problems. The previous amendment partially touched him. This is actually a problem of very uneven representation of psychiatrists in Slovenia. That's what we warned you about at first reading. Here I think it will be very difficult to realize things if we know how difficult the individual parts of Slovenia are, especially Primorska, Koroška and Dolenjska, where there are no psychiatrists. That is why I appeal once again to the Ministry that attention is paid mainly in the award of concessions, because most, 70% of psychiatrists operate in central Slovenia and Maribor. This will need to be changed and distributed more evenly if we want to have more accessible both institutions, institutions and individuals, i.e. psychiatrists, doctors who are treating this and that we can also do what this law wants: this continuous monitoring also in terms of the local level in later stages, post-hospital stages. If that is not the case, cooperation will not be able to be established. I would like to add a partial addition to Article 11; I think it was previously pointed out that this should be read in the context of Article 2 where specific methods are then mentioned, but Article 11 even has a number of other important elements. And I would like to know whether these elements do not seem to be so urgent and necessary for them to be legally regulated or to be established elsewhere. But I don't think that such amendments, at least in my opinion right now, are, so it seems to me that we could do more harm than good at other points with the adoption of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is given by Member Grill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues and co-workers! Such an amendment, as suggested by my colleagues in the Liberal Democracy, is certainly not acceptable to me personally, as this law on mental health, which is a demanding substance, also shows the fact that it has been in preparation for a long time and has also been used or intended for coordination. However, it has never been possible to unify the different views of the profession, of the family, of the public concerned, which would have led to the possibility that this law could also be dealt with without any major disagreements. Thank God it was so willing and brave that, with such consideration, this law also went to a general debate where, in my opinion, a very good proposal or draft was complemented by amendments. And if we sum up the debate on the working body, there has been a lot of debate on this particular article. The solution, which was in the original text at the time, was particularly intended to protect the patient as much as possible, since mental health or the treatment of mental patients is an extremely sensitive area. In history, many examples show that there have been many abuses, unjustifiable, for such or other purposes. And it is not possible to exclude it now and in the future. Therefore, it is appropriate to try to protect the patient from being given special care and attention. And that's exactly what this 11th article is after. Article 11 in the text of the law covers a page and a half A4 format. There are so many safeguards, provisions that protect the patient and also instruct the professions on how to proceed in individual cases, in order to avoid any possible abuse to the greatest extent possible. In the amendment by the Liberal Democracy, this article is proposed to change everything to four or five lines, and this brings it to an area where almost everything is allowed, especially doctors or professions, and this is certainly not good. Without now expressing any thought or dilemma to the profession or to the doctors. Absolutely not, but things are so sensitive here that the slightest unintentional error or indiscretion or anything can lead to irreparable processes in the patient and to injury or to a situation where we can weaken or harm the health of someone forever, and that is not acceptable. Finally, such a provision as in the original text of Article 11 is also helpful to physicians themselves. I am sure that, on the basis of the decision of the Consul, each treating doctor will make it significantly easier to use a method if only in this way will he have any confirmation that it is by three, four doctors, experts, that such a method is the best. I think that the text, as in the original or in this article, is correct. Here I would also like to stress once again that this marriage is the most enjoyed by its family members. We were probably on the side of all the parliamentary groups receiving their visits, requests for this area to be regulated by this law. We have received great satisfaction and thanks from all Members and Members of Parliament on the part of our relatives, when we have also confirmed the text we have in the home working body. This is the greatest guarantee for me that this law has not been in line with those who need it most, and not least by the profession that has also participated in this debate, but some major differences have been detected, but in Article 11, I think the consensus has been reached, so I myself consider that such a dictatorship of this article is consensual. However, I agree that every article of this law can still be supplemented, even corrected, but I am sure that never to the extent that the text can be accepted by anyone who is also concerned by this matter. Each marriage, including this one, is practically the sum total of one consensus of all those who are served by marriage in one way or another. I will not support this amendment from the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u17	Thank you very much. A fellow Member of the Parliament, Mr Drobnic, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Two of the problems were the key ones that dictated, or a set of problems to adopt this law. One is certainly the area of specific treatments, their use, and the other is the highly critical care and inclusion of mental patients or patients with mental illness in life and work. I believe that it is certainly not possible to leave everything behind, so to speak, to make a decision at the scene of the act. And that is why this amendment proposed by the Liberal Democracy is not appropriate. This amendment is actually a tautology. The first sentence is: "Health measures must be proportionate to their purpose", and if you read on - in fact everything that is relevant to me, but, respected colleagues and colleagues, as well as viewers and viewers, you would not need this law, because then the profession can decide everything. But history has shown that it is not possible to leave completely all just one separate profession. Especially since science went behind closed doors within its closed compartments but exceeded some of the dimensions and limits of ethics, permissibility, acceptability. And right on special treatment methods, she's been lifting her heads. Of course, she was also cut there. In fact, these special treatment methods are designed to ensure that those who are not professionally involved are electroshocks, clinical or surgical interventions into the brain’s skin, and the use of extremely problematic pharmacological agents that interfere with the psyche permanently and leave consequences. These are not simple things that would just leave things to themselves. And, look, the documents that came to the National Assembly, they were said not to have made a decision. We have seen that we have actually had two professions: one that has strictly defended one thing and the other completely different. Is it possible, then, to let go? No, no, no. These most controversial, most delicate, most risky, most embarrassing things need to be determined by law. They can't be left to chance, some scientists. At least most of the profession can use it quite well. But if only one percent of the profession is delaying to do something else and abuse it, the reason is not to accept this amendment. And that's very reasonable. However, another area that is actually being touched indirectly is hospital care. Will this law further accelerate or reduce the appetites of the pharmaceutical industry by profit, or will patients be left to their relatives as they were? However, hospital care with the opening of psychiatry has certainly taken on greater importance, but this also increases the burden. When clients were, in fact, forced for life or otherwise left to hospital care, this area did not appear to be problematic because it was not necessary. Now it is. If we have opened the door to psychiatry in order to ensure decent treatment, ethics, dignity and reintegration of people into normal life, then we will have to take good care of this area. And that's why the family came by. Because these patients are still too self-inflicted. Decent employment, work integration, social integration to learn the everyday skills of life, to control everyday life. These are things that we must fortify if we have opened the hospital doors and walls. This happened a few decades ago because of pressure. And it is right that this has happened, but this does not mean that we simply open the door and leave the patients or for the patients who are treated because they are never cured to find themselves as they want. That's it, and we're gonna have to strengthen that. Otherwise, I agree with the law and I certainly cannot support the amendment because it is inappropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u19	Thank you very much. However, Member Gulic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u20	Ambassador Gulič has a name. We're not in the army, Mr. Chairman. The Mental Health Act that we are considering and the amendments are beginning a very complex area. In this debate, I am more disturbed by the fact that it is a Slovenian psychiatry, not by the proposal of law, but primarily by the debate put in a position, as if it was some criminal group of people who are torturing other people, where everything is long and after the abuse and thus written a part of the Proposal for a Law on Mental Health. I'm not gonna say whole. The basic intent is certainly positive. The fact that experiments have ever been carried out in history is certainly true. Just like in all the other medical branches, even in this one. This is, of course, more sensitive and more controversial, but what has happened has also been under pressure from the so-called sciences of pharmaceutical companies that are still pressing, for sure, and someone else. Article 11 I see as a positive reaction to all these fears we have about mental illness. Not with mental problems, but really with diseases. Of course, in some ways it was forgotten that such precise instructions were not only protective but also traffic signs for those who want to do wrong. Such precise instructions then open up a second option. As a result, in the Liberal Democracy, we have decided to bring the matter to a truly principled level, as the Law on Mental Health is supposed to bring. I'm gonna touch it because it's very sensitive, and if anyone feels hurt, don't blame me. This is a decision in the fifth indent, the consent of a person or guardian or a patriot shall be made. I believe it is again, but I will repeat your words, those who oppose the amendment, 99.9% of the Benevolents, that they really want to help a man who is a mental patient, would like to see him return to as much normal life as possible, etc. But 0.1% has their own calculations. And that's why we're not going to change the law now. We're not gonna say anything bad, 0.1. You know that it is in these matters that things are always very controversial. And it is certainly dangerous, then, if the article is so written in comparison to others, which are enough, I will say, free, sufficiently semantically open. For this reason, I think it would be good if you no longer accept this amendment and thus reject it with your left hand, to reflect on all of these accuracys, as set out in Article 11. This is usually not good for marriage. Even at the beginning, it was said, the law is proposed, we will accept it, something better than nothing. I also fully agree with this, this law is not something, of course it has good solutions in it, it is acceptable in general, but it seems to me that some segments, some articles, are such that it is already visible today that they will have to be repaired very soon. And I don't know why it's necessary to experiment if we know that some things aren't going to work out. So much for this amendment and the marriage at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u21	Member Bručan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u22	Good-bye! Thank you so much for saying that. This marriage, the law of mental health, has a long beard. He started a long time ago. Then he received some of the designs already during the mandate of the previous government, but during that period it was not possible to reach consensus within the profession and within the individual professions and between the individual professions. This government and this coalition have now succeeded in harmonising these differences to a very high degree and reaching consensus that, at least after the debate of the Health Committee, the law will be practically adopted. The law is, it is also a sign that the law is good, and it is obvious that now the prepared law is not good, if it has been so amended on the committee, that they are more attracted to the hair primarily from this point of view, because it was the majority of amendments that were more technical than substantive. Indeed, the content of the debate on the Health Committee has been made possible in some points by the law to be rectified. And it is precisely Article 11 that is now proposed that is the one who effectively ensures the implementation of this law and also ensures the achievement of the objectives of the law. This amendment, which is proposed here, seems unnecessary to me, is a rather mild expression. Finally, it should be noted that this first sentence in essence of the proposed amendment is dealt with in the second part of the law, namely, I think that in the first sentence of the second paragraph of Article 8. In fact, some things are repeated that are already mentioned in the law. Speaking of which, I'd like to talk a few words or phrases about psychosurgical treatment. In this case, when the law, article 11, speaks of psychosurgical treatment that this is not permitted in the Republic of Slovenia. That means that classic psychosurgical treatment - the logotome. An intervention that is no longer being done in the world and that has no place in us. It is necessary to know what the word psychosurgical treatment means in this case, because there are more modern methods of psychosurgical treatment, which, of course, do not fall within this framework of denial. Personally, I am particularly pleased that this law is now at second reading and just before adoption. I am particularly pleased that the law has been re-adopted to the programme, both governments and this House, and that, of course, it will be possible to make it significantly better, especially post-hospital treatment for these patients, so that this law will enable the aspirations and wishes of the relatives who have been in a very difficult situation so far, when the patient has had to be cared for, treated, guided and directed after his discharge from the hospital. This law will substantially correct you. However, as far as the amendment is concerned, it cannot be supported, because once again, with the adoption of this amendment, we would practically divorce it into the whole law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u23	Thank you very much. My colleague Znidaršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Special treatment methods are listed in this Article. Whenever we list things, it is always possible for us to leave things behind or to list things that are less important. That's what practice will show. I think that this article lists specific methods precisely because they are extremely sensitive to mental health. Regardless of what we consider to be physical, I would say, the medicine of thousands of diagnosises and various diseases is only a few tens in the field of mental health, and they are far more determined in what situation the insured person or patient will be in when his mentality is disturbed to the point that he cannot decide his own fate, his treatment or his treatment procedures. And then the provisions of the law, which they protect in this sense, may have an agent and other security mechanisms so that, for example, it does not occur when it is not necessary to do so, or when even such compulsory treatment would be sought for entirely personal or other reasons. I myself recall the case of someone demanding hospitalization for his father later receiving a certificate of mental inadequacy and being able to raise his pension and so on. That's what's been discovered. But if it was a proper arrangement with a particular psychiatrist, you could even do that. The law, as it is now, makes such manipulation completely impossible, and that's good. I think it is good for us to start and start this law, at the same time perhaps it is good to list those forms of treatment that are not generally in use with us or have been abandoned for many years, such as electroshock and the like, which has been carried out over time, not to say serialally. I remember my practice in psychiatry when in one day, maybe five, six or even seven patients were treated with electroshocks, which is, of course, a very brutal way of treating and should only be reserved for exceptional cases when everything else is cancelled and when a wider team of psychiatrists who decide that this is what might help the patient. This is happening somewhere else today, but after the letter of the law, we think it's okay. It is also true that Mr Gulič said that a more general assessment or record in principle in this law would not miss anything. This is the truth, but it seems better to begin with that these special methods, which are more or less brutal, are some of those that ultimately change things when it comes to psychosurgical treatment, are written separately and will therefore be preserved in the form that was adopted on the committee, I would say, with broad agreement, not only the professions that were present, but also with the consent of the representatives of patients and the representatives of relatives, who are often in great difficulty when they must appear as those who should, for example, require the compulsory treatment of their family member who has fallen into a state in which he cannot decide or who should make the wrong decision himself. We have often seen cases where a patient was unknowingly opposed when he was dangerous to himself and others, and forced hospitalization was the only way. The problems in this regard are very serious. I think that this law brings solutions that will provide this area in a form and way that will make it safer for patients, easier for their families and for the country's regulated area. That is why we will support this law and I think we have taken a big step forward in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister with co-workers, distinguished Minister of Foreign Affairs, you too have a very nice greeting! In fact, the presence of the Foreign Minister also urges me in this direction that we should think that we are in the European Union and that, indeed, the mental diseases we are dealing with in this law are practically unknown to state borders. In fact, this shows the exceptional importance of this law, which we are waiting for in this country for as many years as our Slovenia is. I believe in well-intentioned thinking and proposals for solutions from our colleagues from the LDS Club, especially colleague Ljubo Germić, whom I am convinced that he knows this matter well. However, when we examined this amendment in the New Slovenia Group, we found that in this area, so, in the area of article 11 which speaks of special treatment methods, this amendment, if adopted, would bring too many holes and this hole, we are afraid, could become too deep a wound in patients suffering from mental illness and, therefore, I predict that the parliamentary group will not support this amendment. We estimate that article 11 is good in the Supplemental Proposal for a Law on Mental Health. We are pleased that he was complemented on the parent’s working body. I will not say that it is perfect, despite its 12th indent, the number 12 symbolizes perfection, but we understand this article and this law, as well as other laws, that they are a living substance, and I am confident that the legislator will listen to and then resolve the problems in practice, because of the obstacles set out in the law. There is another detail, however, that I would like to remind my colleagues from the LDS, the amendments, of the Constitutional Court's decision of 4 December 2003, which states that the legislator must clearly identify those treatment measures which are based on the very purpose and nature of the compulsory detention measure in a psychiatric hospital and determine those treatment measures which go beyond that framework and which require the express consent of the person. In this regard, the Constitutional Court also notes that the legal irregularity of the situation of a person at the time of compulsory detention in a psychiatric hospital constitutes an unconstitutional legal void and is inconsistent with the principle of legal certainty, so the Constitutional Court’s decision in December 2003. I am quite pleased that article 11 is mathematically exact, such articles and such laws a person would only want. We are truly pleased in the New Slovenia Group that the Law on Mental Health will, it appears, receive unanimous support in the National Assembly. Why is this marriage so important? Experts' forecasts show that depression will be the most common cause of disease in the developed world by 2020, that is to say tomorrow, and that the prevalence of mental disorders among all diseases is the most acute increase. The number of persons with mental disabilities is also increasing due to demographic trends and an increase in the number of elderly people in the European Union. Our goal should be to work together to develop measures to promote mental health and to raise awareness of the public, this is very important, in order to adopt and maintain healthy lifestyles and create an environment that allows for personal development. In fact, mental health is a fundamental good for the quality of life of an individual and also society, for its economic and cultural progress - it is the economic capital of the people and therefore needs to be seen as an integral part of all areas of social life and action, such as social protection, education and employment. The European Union countries have been able to develop models that can serve others as examples of good practice. At the level of the European Union, we cannot develop a single model of mental health protection that is suitable for all, but we can stress common needs, values and also define common objectives. We in New Slovenia welcome the recent adoption of the European Agreement on Mental Health and Welfare as an additional initiative for the better mental health of the European population. The agreement sets out five priority themes: prevention of suicides and depression, mental health of young people and education, mental health at work, mental health of older people and the fight against stigma and social exclusion. It stresses the importance of mental health for public health, education, productivity and social cohesion in the European Union. The agreement expresses the readiness of high-level government and non-governmental bodies of the European Union to work together to address mental health problems. Above all, this seems extremely important to us - to work together. In conclusion, I would also like to thank the Minister with the team and all those who have participated in the drafting of the text of this difficult content, namely the content of this law, which we will adopt at this meeting and which I think is right, and I would also like to commend that such and similar praises come from the opposition, on the part of all those who think well in their hearts today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u27	Thank you very much. However, Member Germich has the floor. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, once again for your time. I will not repeat that it is necessary to acknowledge that this law is on the table today and I am sure it will be adopted. In the Liberal Democracy, we will accept it even if we do not amend this Article 11. But I think we should open up those dilemmas until the debate is concluded, which still exist in the public eye. And the warnings of the profession are the ones that led us to this. I wouldn't want to. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Therefore, an amendment is proposed for one person. I think it would be too narrow for a colleague, i.e. an expert in this area. But I think it's some position of profession that points to this point. I would like to point out here that we have talked about everything living under this article. I would point out that, of course, the law defines how the admission of a person to departments under special supervision of a psychiatric hospital which this amendment does not "tangira". That remains unchanged. And abuses in this area will not be conditioned by the contents of the amendment to Article 11, because this does not change. The procedure for the admission of a person to a protected section of the social security institution shall not be changed to a supervised treatment within the community. This amendment has nothing to do here. This amendment refers to specific treatment methods, not some scientific research, and anything else that we regulate in this law with other articles. We are talking about an important professional issue that we are reminded of. This article should be read in conjunction with the amendment to Article 2. If defined, this is not all open, it is defined as what special forms of treatment are. So it's clearly written down what a special form is. And when you read these two articles in conjunction, of course you get consistency and it is not possible to talk about the content of this law on average, which has properly regulated the very large number of content that has been discussed here, and this amendment does not change them. And the law will, of course, continue to be corrected at those points, and in practice it will achieve its effect, that is to protect all those who are under consideration, to the satisfaction of the relatives, representatives of all those who are involved in relation to the patient, in relation to the profession. Here is this dilemma, at a special point, the use of special methods is treated, not in reception or in scientific research and anything else. That's what we're talking about. And we can talk about treatment in different segments when we are a user of health services. And research is used in different fields. The abuse of research must be sanctioned. At the same time, we make it clear here that all rights go in line with the Law on Patient Rights, whatever is breached, this law must be extremely strong. It's a professional question. I agree here. And the warnings of the professions are just what we want to point out here today, so that, of course in practice, I stress once again, in practice, the best possible for the patient, in the right attitude towards all relatives, those who will be involved in such or otherwise in relation to the profession. And when you read this 11th article, as it is now written, the formation of a consul, a time frame and so on, of course, you have to ask yourself about the consequences if the content of this law is written as it is. And also this dilemma that my colleague Bručan was talking about, that we already have one ban, we can have different interpretations that you're under some kind of prohibition of different, psycho-surgical treatment. [[....]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The amendment and I make absolutely no difference, because the amendment does not introduce it. In other articles, we tell you exactly what a special form of treatment is. And then the other one doesn't. And we would not want to regulate the law in any way in relation to the patient, in relation to those affected by these processes, in a worse way, nor under the slightest doubt. We just want to open up a discussion where the profession warns us, not on behalf of one person, but in the right relationship. I also spoke with the representatives of the family and with the representatives of the profession. There's no such thing as uniformity in this relationship. However, we will be very pleased if we have proposals for constructive cooperation to complement this amendment, which exists here. We have pointed out these dilemmas that we would not ask in practice later on the conduct of experts in a particular situation when they react differently than they might then have some professional behaviour dictated. That's what the profession reminds us of, and that's all we're warning us about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u29	Thank you very much. So far, we have three reported debaters. The first is Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u30	Thanks again for saying that. I will say, if the law is not written clearly enough, then I may, yes, deny the words of my colleague Žnidaršič before me, who said that your LDS amendment does not miss anything because it is written very generally, but the fact is that it also does not specify anything. And that's the problem. I see a problem in that. It was not for nothing that this law had been made for fifteen years. They did not put pressure on one profession, medical profession and family members and patients, and finally the other professions. I'll say thank God that past the times when people who have had mental health problems have been hospitalized by serial vehicles to some total institutions in Hrastovec. I had a chance to see, back in the old days, what such an institution or such a total institution meant. Thank God that in 15 years we have also taken a step forward in Slovenia in thinking that we do not see just one part of the profession and in this segment it has, we are talking about mental health, a key role of the social profession. Finally, I know, colleague Germič, that you know that because you have worked a lot in this area, even family members, including professionals working with relatives, do not come from the psychiatric profession, come from the social profession. This is the aspect that has been neglected for many years in our country because it was the easiest person to write a prescription, give it some medicine, or give it to some hospital treatment. It's, he believes the easiest system how, I'll say, temporarily bridge some of the problems of a person. But it's not a solution in the long run or in the long run. One day, if such a person can help him, as much as he can help him, comes from a hospital, is left in an environment and in this environment, if he does not receive adequate help, he simply cannot be found, nor can his family help him or her, often unable to help him or her. That is why I say, thank God that we have come so far after fifteen years that we have on the table a proposal for a law that includes an integrated treatment of aid, dealing with people who have mental health problems, a mental disorder. I say thank God! And that's why once again the warnings that are in place, the amendment is too loose for me. It doesn't provide the necessary protections. The spiritual health that I will say to God because I have it, but God forbid it ever, God forbid it will ever be placed, because I fear these things, yes, that with my health and my head is governed by someone else. I believe that these are such painful experiences in the life of an individual who meets or faces this issue that it is difficult for us to discuss if we do not have experience in these matters. Whoever has experience and has worked in this area, believe me, can see and also discuss issues that are still open today. But I don't want to, I really don't want to listen and listen to just one part of the profession. I have the powerless in my eyes, but I am not only a member of the National Assembly, but I have before my eyes the story of a teenage girl who is against her will, once again I stress, placed in a psychiatric hospital, where no one hears her, against her will. Allow your colleague Germič, with all due respect, because I also know your work within the Health Committee, you say, "Yes, but these people can be protected by the Patients' Rights Act." That's not true. You know that the law is too loose to provide adequate protection to an individual, a person who is in a health system and needs protection. Not under the Patients' Rights Act, he doesn't get it there. This girl does not receive adequate protection and assistance from the State, because the State is an institution and because all institutions that should primarily fight for the right and protection of an individual are on the side of the State, on the side of state institutions, and we do not allow the same story to be done with such a law. If we have the opportunity to give greater protection to an individual under the law, and people with mental problems need help and protection of the state, then we do not allow ourselves to re-write some looser rules within the framework of the law, because then doctors, the institution will be able to invoke, I do not know, that the law does not specify how they should act and act on their own free will and choice. I don't want to get involved in the work of the profession, but I'm saying that the profession isn't just a psych ward, a psychiatric profession. The profession in our society where we have made a move towards a comprehensive treatment is a very broad concept and the profession includes several experts from various fields. We will not support the amendment of the Lip Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u31	Thank you. The text is by Ambassador Majda Replica. I'm sorry. Here you go, Comrade Germich. The replica is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. I understand that concern, and I share it myself. We have listened to different opinions, different experiences in all these years of drafting this law, and here I will give you absolutely right. But I'm stressing again. This article does not talk about the procedures for adoption. We're talking about treatment. The procedures you discussed in this law are regulated and most agree here that they are correct. And here the family also said that this is how they see protection. But we're talking about treatment, and I'm particularly talking about this article talking about special treatments. That's what we're talking about. We are not talking about reception procedures, nor are we talking about the abuse of acceptance of what colleague Žnidaršič said that the owners can also have other speculative purposes, not only proper purposes, but I would not like to generalise them, but we are talking about treatment. That's all we're talking about. And here's the one who's doing the ad and putting us in front of the dilemma. We're not even the experts on that. I don't feel like an expert on that. But I think it's necessary in the role I'm in to hear it and to warn you about it. And we'll make the best decision together. But we're talking about treatment. And once again, who's gonna make that decision. There won't be a broad profession. Three psychiatrists on the board. Three psychiatrists, so there won't be an interdisciplinary professional question. But I think that, in one way or another, on such difficult issues, at least as I have been monitoring certain health situations, in challenging issues, it has always been decided that more of them have been put together and, in some specific methods, assessed how this will work out. I think this is what the entire medical profession does, and we have confidence in it. At least that's how I'm trying to look at this expertise. And our amendment refers only to specific methods treated, not to other content, under this law, we are talking about treatment. That's all we want to know is whether we have the right solution. This solution is definitely better than that of the applicant in the first stage, where it is ethical, so the Commission for Medical Ethics decides on it. It is now necessary to ask whether this is an ethical question, whether this is an expert question, because the genetics of this law, the adoption of this law and the content open this dilemma. And if we've cleared up this professional question [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u33	Comrade Germich, you have three minutes to replicate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u34	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u35	Thank you very much. As I said earlier, Ambassador Maja Zupan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, your colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we have said several times how long we have waited to come to this point so that we can adopt this law. For a decade and a half, more than a decade and a half, patients, professions, relatives, civil society were waiting. And today I am confident that we will adopt this law, that the consensus is very large. I would say once again, I would like to acknowledge to the Minister and the co-workers that they have broken this heavy nut. This marriage was necessary. He was needed because there are major mental health problems. As we know, 5% of Slovenians have this problem. We are an ageing society that will have more and more people over 65 with all the problems, even in the field of mental health, and we are a country with a large number of suicides. This law brings certain solutions. It brings first of all, I could say, the awareness that we can solve mental problems together, together with civil society, along with the profession, together with the relatives, and in this way also prevent the consequences that are difficult both in the economic, social and health fields. This law also brings protection of rights to persons with mental disabilities, which I think is extremely important and, on the other hand, constitutes a legal framework for a longer-term and more comprehensive treatment of mental health. The amendment in which we stopped is extremely important. On the one hand, I understand the proposed amendment to Article 11, in particular the emphasis on treatment. On the other hand, it seems to me that the existing post-amendment article, in some way sufficient, or at least largely answers the question of treatment measures, regarding treatment measures that go beyond this framework and where express consent is required. While it seems particularly important to me that this is closely monitored, in order to comply with international standards, safeguards to be supported by the written consent of the person, except in exceptional and urgent cases, and that this is also accurately recorded and recorded in the register. I support the article and do not accept in any way the amendment to this article submitted by the Liberal Democracy Club, although I am convinced that it is trying in good faith, perhaps in a simpler way, to bypass all these health measures or treatments necessary for the mental health issues themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u37	Thank you very much. However, Member Ivan Grill has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u38	Thank you again very much for your word. I would like to refer to the discussion or explanation of the proposed amendment, which considers that this amendment does not affect the way in which a mental patient is forcibly brought to the hospital, but mainly in the way in which he is treated. However, here I think that it is necessary to separate, I agree that even in the process of bringing a patient with mental disabilities, all safety guards and ways to avoid abuse are needed, but it is only necessary to realize that once a patient is treated in a psychiatric hospital, the walls are often hidden from the public's eyes, and it is only here that a sufficient measure of protection should be ensured that there is no intentional or unintentional abuse of those options that doctors treating such a patient have. And I also do not understand the original article or such as it was amended by the Health Committee to limit its expertise here, since here too the profession is fully respected. It is true, however, that there is only a few other things that need to be explained or explained to family members or caregivers for treatments, the way they will be treated. Finally, it is professional for the Consilien to be a psychiatrist from another hospital, meaning that it does not have any direct contact or knowledge of the patient, does not know the treatment methods or procedures so far, means that with some distance, it can monitor or decide with any greater objectivity on the proposed method of specific treatments. It means that in this article these fuses are really placed, I repeat, for the benefit of patients, and not least by protecting the doctor, because only one doctor who would decide to prescribe medicines that may have a risk to the patient, this can also be a major psychological pressure for him, and it is possible that, in order to protect himself, he would not decide on any treatment method that would be the best, precisely because of a dilemma against this risk. However, if this is decided by a group of doctors who have some consensus, I think this is better, safer, both for the patient and for the doctors themselves. And if I comment only on the statement or the parable that this 11th article, as it is now, sets out traffic signs as to how treatment procedures are to be carried out. I agree, it is right that matters or procedures are defined. However, if we accept such an amendment as proposed by the LDS, it means that it is driving completely without traffic signs, which is certainly a great danger that there can be not only abuse but also a number of harmful consequences for patients. And I think it is right that there are certain safeguards, restrictions, because, after all, we also pursue the goal of treating patients with quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 11 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups? Member Barbara Žgajner Tavš, then Minister, if I understand correctly, wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. Treatment with special methods is a professional issue. However, it must not only be a professional question, it is also an ethical question. Therefore, I add, treatment with special methods is a professional-ethical issue. And it is right that we complement our profession from an ethical point of view. That's why it's right to set some rules for the game. And it is also clearly stated in the existing Article 11 that the amendment does not take into account or simply deletes - minors are not allowed to be treated with special treatment methods. I believe that for once I have said enough why the Lipa Group insists on or supports the content of the proposed Article 11 and not the content of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Chairman. Messengers and Members! The law has been extremely broad and intensive, especially in the last six months. And we discussed this law with experts, civil professional associations, with relatives who have their associations. And above all, in the family, there was an incredible desire for salvation. We need a lot of solutions, we need them to, I don't know, put the house in space, for the road, for the asphalt, but these are material things. But this is really a sincere desire and for these feelings, for suffering, of course, even those who cannot help themselves at a given time. There has been a broad debate, so I believe that Article 11 is what we propose at a given time and at a given time, it says. Even on the Health Committee there was a lot of history - 90 amendments, it is good that there are so many because we are more confident that we have the right solutions. And that is why it is right to stop and take this situation as proposed, and I believe that there will be many more than 100,000 people who have mental health problems with depression, if we include family members, some 100,000 people may have a broken stone from the heart, including this definition of this law, for which a broad consensus has also been inter-resortial. By thanking everyone for all the suggestions on this occasion, we do not support the amendments for the above reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u43	Thank you very much. May I conclude the discussion in conjunction with Article 11? No, no, no. Here you go, Comrade Kotič.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! We have also been monitoring the Group of Social Democrats for some time, and we have also pointed out that the need to regulate this area is high on the priority list of all those who face these problems regulated by this law on a daily basis. We also had discussions with the representatives of the relatives, and there was also a real sense of what was also said to be of great interest after this law was passed. Of course, it is important that we adopt a good law to adopt a law that is a compromise among all, but also on the basis of this compromise we get a good proposal for a law. That is why I think it would be useful to listen to these last attempts by fellow Members to amend the law by further improving it in individual articles, and this is also the purpose of those who have tabled or tabled amendments. Therefore, the adoption of amendments does not mean that the amendments do not want this law to be adopted, in order to conclude that the amendment applicants want this law not to be adopted. Finally, to say or to conclude that this area remains disorderly. In particular, it is the proposaler's intention to adopt a law and this quality law, which also takes into account comments that make sense. I therefore believe that support for the amendment to Article 11 is well-intentioned and, of course, with the desire that the article being supplemented by the amendment actually improves. This does not mean, of course, that the text we have received from the Ministry, which has been thoroughly addressed by both the profession and the public concerned, because it is an area which touches on a very wide spectrum of both those who are already using services in this area and those which may also be Tangled in the future, but, as I have said, I suggest that the coalition Members and Members of Parliament are more inclined to listen to the well-intentioned wishes of those who are proposing amendments. And once again, there is no desire to interfere with this procedure and not to get married. It is a desire to improve the text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Member Gulic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u46	We're not in the army yet. Look, I find it very difficult, actually, to accept all these attacks as if we're trying to completely destroy the work. This pathetic concern, which sounds like moments, is actually more of a 19th-century area. You know, Slovenian psychiatry is no longer in the field of Tiergarten Auersperge - the Auerspergov princes' zoo, which then turned Bleiweis into a psychiatric hospital when they were sometimes beating, with aversion methods also treated schizophrenia, etc. And here everything got mixed up, everything that's in the open wards, what's in the infirmary and what's in the closed wards. Our amendment wanted to get the matter into more semantically open frameworks, and that was it. It was no such thing, to the law, no such one to the care of his family, no such one to the profession. But it's true that there was a lot of bad talk here about the profession, as if everyone knew what was going on behind the closed walls. There are no more closed walls. People have insights, people know. True, though, family members want a solution very, very much for their people who are in these troubles or who are terminally ill. And I also believe that they expect, at least some, to miraculously save the marriage, and there will be no. I'm sure she won't be. And I hope that this law will actually clarify the matter. Here we see its advantage and its purpose, especially to make it clear that things will be clear, of course, if not all of them, but at least to those who are sitting here in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u47	Thank you, too. Member Marian Drofenik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I would say that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we have already fully supported the adoption of the law in the previous debate, especially because we said that, as many others have said, it has spoken for 15 years and that it has now taken place that moment and it is right that it has come to us that we will accept it. And I'll say, even if there's any doubt about it, because not least there's going to be a scratch, and not least, the development of psychiatry has shown what it's going to take to change in the future periods of marriage. Even now, it is possible to agree with experts who point out that insufficient leverage in the prevention law is possible and that there may be insufficient guidance to work with patients after the end of treatment so that these can be things or weak points. I would also say that I actually don't think anyone can understand the debate here in the National Assembly as a critic of the psychiatric profession. I don't think so. It has already been pointed out that in fact the Slovenian section in the field of psychiatric care began to introduce in the world of known modern forms in the 1970s and that it has actually been classified relatively high. In the Group of Members, we believe that it is therefore high time that the law also lays the groundwork for the adoption of a national programme in which certain things can be settled, which may not be well regulated in Slovenia. We would define strategy, action plan, mental health insurance, goals, organisation, development and tasks of operators, but we are also thinking of the network. I think the last time was also stressed that we have more than two thirds of the profession and ambulance and dispensaries scattered in Ljubljana and Maribor. That, in fact, even the territory of Slovenia is poorly covered by this. This could be something in general. However, as far as the amendment to article 11 is concerned, I would say as a layman that it seems too general to me and that somehow the text of the proposer has more confidence, which is a little more concrete and therefore we will not support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I also conclude the debate with your debate in conjunction with Article 11. We can move on to Article 39 and the amendment of the SDS, NSI, SLS and DesUS. Anybody want to discuss this? Nobody. I am putting to the debate Article 42 and the amendment of the same four groups of Members. Anybody want to discuss this? Not at all. Let us try Article 51 and the amendment of the same parliamentary groups, namely SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS. [[Not at all.]] I am putting to the debate Article 70 and the amendment of the same four groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] The amendments will be decided tomorrow, on Friday, 11 July 2008, as part of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Second defence of the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law on external matters, in the framework of the regular procedure. I'm informing you that we have 10 minutes of time available this time. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration, and I give the floor to Dr Dimitri Rupl, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to present the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u50	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on external matters. This law must be aligned with the legislation in force and adapted to the European legal order. The text of the law, which is under consideration today, has been partially supplemented and amended on the basis of the amendments of Members and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of this Assembly. I would like to present below some of the most important solutions relating to consular assistance, to the area of conclusion of international contracts and to the human rights and organisational area. First time. In the area of consular assistance, we are introducing European Union legislation by means of a bill. In particular, it is a matter of providing consular assistance to any citizen of the European Union in a third country. This means that each Member State of the European Union provides consular assistance to every citizen of the European Union who is located in a third country where his own country does not have representation. Examples of aid resulting from the primary legislation and decisions of the Council of the European Union are listed. The second example of the introduction of European Union legislation relates to the issue of a so-called European passport or return document if the holder loses it or if the travel document is missing. The additional law introduces the possibility that the Slovenian diplomatic and consular representation, as well as, as agreed, the representation of a Member State of the European Union, if Slovenia does not have its own representation in a particular country, the citizen of Slovenia may, in an emergency, invest money. It is a matter of cases where a Slovenian citizen in serious distress has no one who can give him money for the most urgent care and for returning to his country. With regard to the area of international treaties, it is only by proposing additions where shortcomings have been identified, in particular in practice. The issues that we want to address are objections to reservations to international treaties, the regulation of the area of so-called administrative treaties and non-contractual international acts and arrangements for the conclusion of international treaties within the framework of membership in the European Union. The law proposes that Articles 70 and 75 of the law apply to the investment and withdrawal of reservations. The provision that the State withdrawal assembly may authorise the Government is deleted. In addition to the above, it has also been shown that the law should regulate the procedure for making objections to reservations and withdrawing them where there are final reasons. Accordingly, in order to raise an objection to the reservation or withdraw it, the procedure as an initiative to conclude an international contract shall apply mutatis mutandis. The proposal for a law introduces a distinction between contracts which can be ratified by the Government by a regulation and other contracts which are sectoral in nature and which do not entail any legal or financial obligations. Non-contractual acts and the publication of all acts, both international treaties and acts other than treaties, are also regulated. So, I'm guessing. In the field of human resources and organisation, we propose. Firstly, the establishment of the Institute of Political Director, which coordinates and connects work in the field of European affairs. Secondly, a change in the appointment of heads of diplomatic representations and consulates. The Head of the Diplomatic and Consular Representation will then be able to become only a professional diplomat who has at least reached the title of Minister-designate has at least seven years of working experience at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. A more precise regulation of the status of civil servants and other bodies performing work in particular professional areas, in representations abroad, then the legal regulation of the possibility that a diplomat who has applied for a job abroad shall temporarily use a lower title than he has achieved in the internal service, while preserving all the rights he has achieved in the internal service. Then, I'm talking about proposals, then the possibility of the advancement of diplomats in the external service. Foreign diplomats will be able to continue under the same conditions as in the internal service. In addition, the determination of the obligation of staff members in the MFZ and other bodies to protect key documents related to the implementation of the foreign policy of Slovenia. Furthermore, we propose the introduction of an additional criterion for assessing whether a particular document is publicly available. If disclosure of data or document harms international relations or the interests of Slovenia, access to the document will be refused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Joseph Jerovšk, President, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 39th meeting, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Foreign Affairs, submitted by the Government to the Assembly. A general discussion was also held on the draft law. The positive opinion of the Commission of the State Council was presented by Councillor Vincenc Otonič. In the introduction, the representative of the proposer, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, presented the reasons for the adoption of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreign Affairs. In practice, he argued that there was a need for certain changes to address shortcomings and uncertainties and to comply with the rules on the system of public servants. Furthermore, the accession of the Republic of Slovenia to the EU has led to the need for the External Affairs Act to be adapted accordingly to the EU acquis. In the context of the debate on individual articles, Members have focused mainly on the question of selecting heads of diplomatic representations and consulates, which is governed by Article 8 of the bill and the issue of the obligation to protect documents, which is regulated by Article 11. In most cases they agreed with the harsher conditions that will gradually lead to the establishment of "strict" career diplomacy. Mr Školč expressed his concern that this would pave the way for the appointment of experts to the posts of the heads of the diplomatic missions. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Dimitrij Rupel, replied that the Republic of Slovenia has a small diplomatic apparatus, making the experience of diplomats all the more important. SDS Member Jerovšek agreed that this is a major change, but at the moment it is necessary to accept it in order to avoid constant perceptions of the politicalisation of diplomacy. With regard to the issue of the obligation to protect documents, some Members pointed out that this provision introduces rules which are necessary, as the existing legislation does not regulate the specific needs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as has been shown in the case of the abuse of diplomatic mail at the start of the Slovenian Presidency of the Council of the EU. A representative of the Anton Rogelj Law and Law Service also took part in the debate and drew attention to some issues of compliance with the law. The Committee adopted some of the amendments tabled, such as the amendments to Articles 1 and 2 of the Group of Ambassadors and the Group of Social Democrats and the LDS Group of Ambassadors to Article 1, supported by the Government. Following the agreement of the Zares Group, their amendment to Article 8 concerning the introduction of career diplomacy was supplemented and clarified by the Committee. As its own amendments, the Committee adopted the following amendments: Article 6 concerning the means to assist citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are in difficulties abroad, Article 7 of which is editorial in nature, Article 8 of which consistently introduces the selection of career diplomats to the positions of the heads of diplomatic representations and consulates, which was also a long-standing requirement of the Slovenian diplomats' union, Article 11 of which deals with the obligation to protect documents, thereby clearly distinguishing the category of protected documents in the field of foreign policy from classified data, responding to some of the concerns expressed in the general debate and the amendment to Articles 19 and 21 of the more editorial nature. At the end of the vote, the Committee voted on and adopted several articles of the draft law. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u53	Thank you very much. At its 39th meeting, the National Assembly held its first reading of the draft law and it is therefore not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I also conclude the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the bill tomorrow, Friday, 11 July 2008, in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - Defence draft resolution on the international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia for the period until summer 2015. We have 50 minutes at our disposal for this point. The motion for a resolution was tabled by the Government for consideration by the assembly, and this time I also give the floor to Dr Dimitri Ruple, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I am pleased to speak a few words today about the Proposal for a Resolution on the international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2015; this provides a framework for the implementation of Slovenian development assistance. In a few words, I will present the reasons for the adoption of the Resolution and the fundamental substantive emphasis. Slovenia has graduated from the World Bank by entering the European Union and has become a donor state, not a recipient of international development and humanitarian aid. In this way, it made a commitment to gradually increase resources for development cooperation to 0.17% of gross national income by 2010, approximately €68 million, and 0.33% of GNI by 2015, which is about € 166 million. In order to achieve this objective, Slovenia must regulate this important area in more detail by means of legal and other acts. On 23 June 2006, the National Assembly, this high assembly, adopted the Law on International Development Cooperation. This law provides, inter alia, that international development cooperation shall be planned and implemented on the basis of a resolution on international development cooperation to be adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. The Government approved the text of the motion for a resolution on 8 May this year. The resolution, as you have seen, is based on the foreign policy orientations of the Republic of Slovenia, on the principles that Slovenia must respect as a member of the European Union and the wider international community, of course, and on the values and development guidelines of the Slovenian society and the Slovenian economy. It sets geographical priorities and substantive thematic priorities in its text. If I say a few words about geography. Slovenia will focus mainly on the Western Balkan countries, particularly Macedonia and Montenegro, the countries of Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia in the next medium term - when I speak of Eastern Europe, I am thinking of Moldova and Ukraine in particular - and, of course, some of the least developed African countries, although it is supposed to be a problem in Eastern Europe or the Western Balkans. In this context, our attention will be focused on the areas of assistance in transition processes and the approximation of the European Union, in the design and reconstruction of public infrastructure and business services, and on children affected by armed conflicts. In fact, the resolution establishes a framework for the financing and implementation of Slovenian development cooperation. It proposes the establishment of a special inter-ministerial group to prepare and submit to the Government a method of resource planning and associated organisational structures for a time when the volume of resources for development cooperation will increase so that the current institutional structure needs to be adjusted accordingly. Our goal is to concentrate financial resources and to plan and implement development cooperation with Slovenia. A few words on international development cooperation operators. In addition to those set up or co-established by the Government, this is the Centre for European Future, then the IFT, this is the Mine Action Fund, then the CEF for Financial Excellence, the Institution Together, then the Centre for International Cooperation and Development. In addition, there are, of course, NGOs and other institutions, which we are also paying attention to in this resolution. Cooperation with non-governmental organisations is essential in terms of public awareness and support for achieving the objectives set. Ladies and gentlemen, after the Government adopted the motion for a resolution on 8 May this year, it sent it to the National Assembly. Three amendments were also tabled here by Members or by the Group of Members and several comments were made by the Legal and Legislative Service. At the 39th regular meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, held on 1 and 2 July, the members of the Committee considered and adopted a motion for a resolution, including the amendments by Ambassador Feri Horvat and other editorial comments. The proposal was also addressed on 18 June by the Commission for International Relations and European Affairs of the Council of State, which adopted the motion for a resolution. So much for a certain time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u55	Thank you very much. This time, too, I invite the president of the Committee on Foreign Policy to present the Committee's report. President, Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u56	Thank you very much again. All respectable present. At its 39th meeting, held on 1 July and following this meeting, held on 2 July, the Foreign Policy Committee shall consider a motion for a resolution on the international and development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2015 submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance by the National Assembly. The members of the committee for consideration received a motion for a resolution, an opinion from the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia, an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the amendments to the motion for a resolution and an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which made some comments on the text of the resolution submitted. The representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Andrej Šter, presented the motion for a resolution on the international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2015. He stressed that the Republic of Slovenia, through its economic development and membership in the European Union, had joined the developed countries of the world and had become a donor country and had accepted the moral obligation to help less developed parts of the world. In accordance with the Law on International Development Cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia, international development cooperation is planned and implemented on the basis of that resolution. The adoption of the resolution thus constitutes a step towards effective implementation of the Act and is one of the conditions for Slovenia to be able to fulfil the commitment made at the European Council in June 2005 and to allocate 0.17% of its gross domestic product for development cooperation. Finally, the Secretary of State added that the Government was in favour of the amendment of Ambassador Feri Horvat to Chapter 22 of the Sixth Chapter, as well as the editorial comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the short discussion that followed, Members stressed that this was a resolution with a long history covering an extremely important area and highlighted the commitment of the Republic of Slovenia to increase the share of the funds allocated to development assistance or international development cooperation. However, the panellists did not agree with the establishment of a stand-alone agency for the implementation of structural and organisational arrangements for development cooperation, as proposed by the Zares Group, as some other laws would need to be amended to do so, which would essentially block the implementation of the resolution. Magi was also involved in the debate. Svilan, President of the Management Board of the Slovenian Export Bank, the CID of the Bank, which has also undermined the resolution, is a good basis for further work. In his view, however, he drew attention to the excessive scope of bilateral forms of international development cooperation, which constituted the best form of development cooperation. In the context of the debate and the vote on the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the amendment by Mr Ferio Croat to point 22 of the sixth chapter of the motion for a resolution. The amendment of Mr Ferri Horvat to Chapter 16, Article 22, point 6 of the motion for a resolution, was not adopted by the Committee. On the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee also adopted its amendments, which are included in the supplementary motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Maria Possonec will present the position of the National Community. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to our guests! Our country has become one of the development aid donors due to its degree of economic development and its involvement in the European Union, taking on part of its responsibility for the development of less developed parts of the world. The Slovenian commitments to development cooperation are clearly defined not only by membership in the European Union but also by the signing of the Millennium Declaration at the UN General Assembly eight years ago. Slovenia has set clear starting points in the formulation of the objectives of international development cooperation, while the law on international development cooperation clearly sets out its objectives in this area. As a member of the European Union, it will therefore seek to increase the funding for development cooperation to 0.17% of gross social product by 2010 and 0.33% of gross social product by 2015, not least. It will also guide development assistance to the least developed countries in Africa, further, seek to respect the principles of complementarity, coordination and policy coherence, respect for work-sharing arrangements between Member States and to enhance the effectiveness of development cooperation and respect for policy coherence commitments for development in 12 areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u60	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, everyone else is present! The resolution on the international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2015, according to our Group of Members, brings true answers to the challenges posed by globalisation, in particular in the context of the increasingly recognizable operation of the Republic of Slovenia in international policy. Following us is the successful Presidency of Slovenia to the European Union, a project that has proved that our country is ready and, above all, is able to play important roles in the international field. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the resolution is a qualitative one, as the introduction gives a very detailed picture of the state of Slovenian international development cooperation or development assistance, in the second part sets out the objectives that our country wants to achieve in the field of international development cooperation, and in the third part proposes an organisational design to achieve its objectives. Part four, however, speaks of instruments and institutions for the implementation of international development cooperation. We believe that in shaping the objectives of international development cooperation, the Republic of Slovenia comes from the right and positive starting points, which are: for the first time, consistent with the values and developmental orientations of Slovenian society and economy. Secondly, consistent with the development objectives of the international community, in particular the objectives of the European Union and of the United Nations, and thirdly, compliance with the foreign policy objectives of which international development cooperation is also an integral part. In the recent period of globalisation, the international community has been facing challenges, particularly climate change, the issue of poverty and international security. With the objectives of the resolution, Slovenia responds adequately to these international challenges, in particular with the following activities: poverty reduction, by promoting economic and social development, by ensuring peace and security, by combating AIDS and other diseases affecting less developed countries, by providing education for all, sustainable development and by strengthening bilateral and multilateral cooperation with countries. As a member of the European Union, Slovenia has made the following commitments in international development cooperation: Slovenia will seek to increase the resources for development cooperation to 0.17% of gross social product by 2010 and to increase to 0.33% by 2015, will also focus development assistance on less developed countries, including Africa, respect the principles of complementarity, coordination and policy coherence, respect for work-sharing arrangements between Member States and increase the effectiveness of development cooperation and respect the commitment to policy coherence for development in the 12 areas - in the areas of trade, environment, climate change, security, agriculture, fisheries, social dimension, globalisation, decent work, migration, research, information society, transport and energy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we will support the resolution on the international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2015 in the belief that this will support the efforts of the international community to resolve current common issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the fact that in Slovenia, after several years of debate and slow action, we receive a strategic document with priorities and guidelines for the provision of development assistance based on the Law on International Development Cooperation. In this light, the adoption of this resolution, despite some inconsistencies, is a step forward. Slovenia has joined the developed countries with its current economic development and, in particular, with its membership in the European Union and has become a donor country. It is on the basis of the resolution we are adopting that this cooperation is planned and implemented in accordance with the Law on International Development Cooperation. The resolution also means ensuring that Slovenia will be able to fulfil the commitment made at the European Council in June 2005 to allocate 0.17% of its gross domestic product for development cooperation. Of course, we expect the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, which, in accordance with the Slovenian Export and Development Bank Act adopted in June, will also be empowered to carry out part of the activities of international development cooperation, to take over the operational performance function, in particular bilateral development cooperation. It is worth noting that only bilateral development cooperation allows the integration of Slovenian companies and organisations into projects, and only through its own activity will Slovenia take advantage of all the opportunities offered by such cooperation. Especially in the business, humanitarian, cultural and international political fields. At the same time, Slovenia, within the framework of the European Union and its common orientations, is helping developing countries to fight poverty and is working towards the development of democracy, the exercise and protection of human rights and economic and social progress in these countries, which are certainly very important and positive objectives. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the proposed resolutions with the last amendments have been adequately supplemented and improved and we therefore support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Ambassador Majda Zupan will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The draft resolution on the international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2015 is based on the objectives of reducing poverty by promoting economic and social development, ensuring peace and security, combating AIDS and other diseases, providing education for all, sustainable development and good governance, and on commitments arising from membership in the European Union, which are linked to increasing resources for development cooperation, directing development assistance to the least developed countries and respecting the principles of complementarity and policy coherence. The resolution, based on the foreign policy orientation of our country as members of the European Union and of the international community, identifies priority geographical areas: the Western Balkans, where certain stability can be achieved, then additional areas: Asia, the Caucasus. Special attention is paid to Africa, with regard to humanitarian assistance, through the cooperation of the Centre for European Perspectives, the Mine Action Centre, NGOs and the like. We support the resolution in New Slovenia. At the same time, we are aware that we are just starting a path that is to be mapped out by 2015 for the projection of the volume of official development assistance, the envisaged sources of funding and guidance for the establishment of an overall system of international development cooperation. We are also aware of the responsibilities arising from our membership in the European Union and the responsibilities we have to the less developed countries of the world. We are aware that the principle level is not enough to move on to action. With any development cooperation and development assistance, we think that the repeated river is essential: it is not enough to give people fish, it is important that we teach them how to fish. The active functioning of the recipients of the aid ensured that the result of the aid would be real progress of the recipient and that cooperation would be mutually beneficial. We therefore encourage the Government to give a particular emphasis in the future to the creation of an appropriate organisational structure for the planning and implementation of international development cooperation, in order to make this happen and to make it effective. At the same time, we are aware that international development assistance is not only at government level but also at non-governmental and voluntary level. Slovenians can be commended for the enviable number of volunteers, students, missionaries, experts and others made available to people in undeveloped countries and who effectively implement the development goals of the United Nations, the European Union or the Republic of Slovenia, away from the eyes of the media and not on the basis of law or resolution, but also on the basis of the decision to sacrifice their lives for the advancement of people in undeveloped countries. On this occasion, we give these individuals all the credit and thanks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, everyone! The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will complement the motion for a resolution on the international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia for the period until 2015. Not only because its adoption requires the law itself on international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia, but also primarily because the Republic of Slovenia is so economically and financially developed and strong that it is incumbent on it to take on appropriate responsibility to donate assistance to nations that suffer from deficits and poverty due to their developmental and other negative impacts, but their lives in the mirror of globalisation and the materialized work of the rich world are worth nothing more than nothing if we take the suffering of the people in Darfur as an example. By this resolution, the Republic of Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, lays the foundation and guidance for a multi-dimensional or programme-based approach to donating funds as international development assistance. Despite the fact that we are a small nation and a large part of the world, we are a small country, but we are overcome by a great deal of humanity, so our attitude to the urgent need to reduce poverty, to ensure peace and security, to fight diseases that further plague the underdeveloped countries, and to establish at least the minimum human dignity that is genuine and constant. In doing so, this resolution gives us only an additional framework for our commitments, and it would be good not to have the share of the resources to be allocated to development cooperation understood by the firmness of the defined percentage of gross social product for a given period, but to have permanent growth at least to the intended level, of course, in accordance with our capabilities. However, it is important to establish effective control over both the use of funds and controls in terms of reporting on the achievement of development cooperation objectives or programmes. As it is said, the motion for a resolution represents our additional commitment to do something small for all people in this world tomorrow, and that the lives of those we measure with only the number of deaths due to poverty and hunger per day will become at least a little more bearable for all people in this world, so we will unanimously support the resolution in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Dessus Group is supposed to be, but apparently it will not be presented by the mag because it is not with us. Franz Gniedarsich. Therefore, the position of the SNS Group will be presented to us by colleague Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The resolution on international development cooperation of the Republic of Slovenia, supplemented by a proposal, is also considered by the Slovenian National Party to be well and specifically prepared. Some important information that we may not have heard today, however, needs to be highlighted and we in the Slovenian National Party say it is good to know that three essential starting points are at stake in shaping the objectives of international development cooperation, the first of which is: compliance with the values and development guidelines of Slovenian society and the economy, which we understand so that our assistance is consistent with our development. The objectives are also very important, among which we stress and welcome three in the Slovenian National Party: poverty reduction, peace and security and education. The amount of 0.17% by 2010 of gross social product and 0.33% by 2015 of gross social product has already been heard. It is very important that the resolution makes it clear that our assistance will be directed towards the Western Balkans and, in particular, Macedonia, Montenegro; that our assistance will be directed to Moldova and Ukraine, that is, Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia; and that we will help Africa. Of course, it is also necessary to say how we will help to ensure that all development aid is fully financed from the state budget and that control is also established. Full reporting on the objectives and achievements of development cooperation will be carried out centrally through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia. Such reporting can be understood as additional control as otherwise envisaged by the other institutions. Last but not least: the resolution is a commitment to help ourselves first, to be so strong and so rich and so developed that we can help others as well. We will support the resolution in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u69	We are done with the presentations and views of the parliamentary groups. As no amendment has been tabled to the motion for a resolution, the assembly will take a decision on the motion for a resolution on Thursday, in the framework of the votes. And by that time, I'm breaking this agenda. I thank the Minister for his participation. Excuse me! The assembly will vote on Friday. And we're moving on to 6. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO THE THIRD DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LAW ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PENALTIES, IN THE context of a regular procedure. We have 2 hours and 8 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was prepared for third reading by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so I give the floor to the State Secretary present at the Ministry of Justice; Mr Robert Marolt, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The fundamental objective pursued by the amendment of the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions is to ensure the effective, economical and professional enforcement of criminal sanctions by clearly defining the rights of convicts and ensuring the protection of those rights. The number of administrative cases in which the administrative procedure law is subsidiaryly applied shall be reduced in order to relieve professional and other employees in prisons and to remove administrative barriers. Many cases that have so far been resolved by duplicating team decisions and in particular by issuing an administrative decision will be resolved by ensuring that decisions on the demands of convicts and minors are recorded in their personal plan. This will ensure a more modern and modern treatment of prisoners and detainees, which is in line with European prison rules, as well as with Council of Europe documents. The guards will be compared to the guards' instructors, since, after the new both, they will be law enforcement officers. This will ensure the additional capacity of the current guards to perform works in the so-called prison workshops and better security coverage while at the same time not doubling their work. Under the new criminal legislation already adopted, the new criminal code is given greater emphasis to alternative forms of imprisonment, which will, on the one hand, contribute to reducing the number of prisoners, especially for so-called significant crimes, and thus to reducing the spatial hardship in prisons and decommissioning of employees in prisons on the other hand. The possibility of replacing the prison sentence for up to two years with work is introduced for the general benefit. The Ministry of Justice in this place also attaches and supports the proposed amendment of the Lipa Group, which will further regulate the effective and quality implementation and supervision of the alternative form of enforcement of criminal sanctions by the Minister of Justice. Furthermore, the form of the so-called weekend penalty for all convicts who remain in prison for up to 36 months, i.e. up to three years, are personalized, are in a regular working relationship or are educated, but have not been sentenced to imprisonment for the offence of sexual inviolability. For prison, this type of execution also entails a lower cost for taxpayers, as well as the relief of employees and spatial hardships during working days. There is also a new possibility of house imprisonment for sentenced persons up to nine months. The proposal to amend the law in the light of the increasing possibility of conditional lays down a new duty of prisons to examine, on an official basis, the fulfilment of conditions for parole at the end of the sentence and which are not sentenced to imprisonment for more than five years. However, for the remaining convicts, the conditions shall be examined and the penalty shall be suspended for conditional leave after two thirds. This will ensure a more modern and modern treatment of prisoners and detainees, which is in line with European prison rules, as well as with Council of Europe documents. New developments in early release are also important for the unloading of Slovenian prisons. Furthermore, the disciplinary procedure will be simplified and updated. It will also give greater emphasis to electronic commerce in institutions, which will significantly simplify administrative operations. The law also provides for restrictions on shipments to prisoners, thereby increasing the security level, limiting the entry of prohibited substances and decommissioning the guards who are required to inspect all shipments. It is also further regulated that even during the sentence being suspended, the court may propose to replace the payment of the fine for the performance of the tasks in general favour. The rights of convicts from work or work in the context of working therapy are further regulated. Convicted work is stimulated [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , so that the prison benefits depend largely on the fact that, whether the convict works or not, the education of the convicts has the same status as that of the worker. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Mitja Ljubeljšek will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable assembly, distinguished representatives of the government! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we support all proposals for amendments and the addition of legislation on the enforcement of criminal sanctions towards the most legal and professional enforcement of criminal sanctions. This set of amendments and the addition of the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions also include a novel, which we are considering today in the third reading, which removes certain administrative obstacles to the functioning of national authorities, in particular the enforcement of criminal sanctions. The increased security requirements in prisons are due to entry into the Schengen area. Prisons are becoming more burdensome, thus becoming increasingly difficult to deal with, as the practice of enforcing criminal sanctions draws attention to. In practice, there have also been some shortcomings in solving individual provisions of the existing law. Therefore, the law is interpreted differently in its implementation. In view of the above, the proposal for a new law aims to ensure that criminal sanctions are enforced as legally and professionally as possible, as mentioned above, with a very clear definition of the rights of convicts and the protection of those rights. The principle of legal certainty shall also be implemented by aligning the legal dictatorship with existing laws and binding international treaties. However, the principle of economics and speed in administrative law is also being implemented through a reduction in the number of administrative matters in which the general administrative procedure law is subsidiaryly applied. We have already supported the proposed solutions in the amendment of the law in our parliamentary group in the first reading, because some of them seemed necessary to us, such as the introduction of solutions that the Statute of the International Criminal Court has relating to the enforcement of the judgments of this court in the event that the convicted person would continue to be punished in Slovenia, to changes and additions that improve the current solutions to the existing law, such as the systematic and normative regulation of the area of providing spiritual and pastoral care, further, alternative forms of detention, the introduction of a special medical commission, the taking into account living conditions, the solutions to relieve professional and other employees of institutions in favour of the increased scope of their professional work and so on. The amendments adopted in the second reading at the home labour force and in the National Assembly have substantially complemented individual legal provisions with the aim of a more effective part of the courts and detention institutions and for the maximum successful integration of convicts into quality life after release. This will improve the speed and thus improve the effectiveness of communication on the suspension of the sentence by a call sent to the convicted person in custody by a district court in whose territory the court issued the judgment in the first instance, immediately and no later than 8 days after the receipt of the enforceable decision. The sentence imposed shall not exceed five years. The sentenced person may remain in the semi-stretched section if so ordered by the court. The regulation of the protection of personal data, from direct electronic access to access and control powers, shall be specified in more detail. A supplement allowing the Minister of Justice to specify the conditions and possibilities for carrying out the communication of convicts in the light of the technical options that are changing with the development of the technique. In accordance with the personal plan, the convicted person who will meet the conditions for free leave from the institution will be able to participate in active employment programmes in order to increase the possibility of his successful integration into society after the suspension of the sentence, as well as certain amendments and additions, in line with the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. In our Group of Members, we note that the proposed amendments, additions and harmonisations are appropriate, and some are also very necessary if we want to make the enforcement of criminal legal procedures more effective, of course in the context of legal certainty, with a clearer definition of the rights of convicts, ensuring the protection of these rights and improving the regulation of the work and residence of prisoners. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will also support the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions in third reading, and will also support the amendment to the 51st article of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Ambassador Dar Lavtijar Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. The law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, which will undoubtedly be adopted by the National Assembly at this last regular meeting, is rounded up in this mandate by legislation on criminal law. In the Group of Social Democrats, we also assess this law, as in other criminal law laws, that it has not been sufficiently thought out, that the applicant has not listened carefully to the profession and that, to a certain extent, there is insufficient sensitivity to human rights. And it is not any law that governs the enforcement of those sanctions which take or restricts convicted persons some of the main human rights, such as: personal freedom, freedom of movement, the right to personal dignity, the right to privacy, personal rights and other fundamental human rights and fundamental freedoms. I am aware that our approach to this law to the proposer and most of the coalition Members does not make any special impression that it is, however, a criminal offence and that most of them deserve the most severe punishment. The legal proposal therefore stresses the solutions to those issues which, for example, are provided for in the Statute of the International Criminal Court and which relate to the enforcement of the judgments of this Court in the event that the convicted person is to be punished in the Republic of Slovenia. This is also how the proposaler wants to convince us that the only correct interpretation of it is Article 80 of the Rome Statute. Most of the legal profession that I don't know about is clearly still in deep confusion. This proposed law is intended to reduce the number of administrative cases in which the General Administrative Procedure Act is applied in a subsidiary manner and the decisions on the demands of convicts and minors will be taken into account in their individual programme. It is questionable whether this is acceptable and whether there is a significant reduction in the legal certainty and protection of the rights of convicts. There is no clear answer. In particular, the proposer shall consider the area of provision of spiritual and pastoral care for closed persons. As far as the rights of convicts are concerned, and this is certainly the case, there is a disputed added article which is intended to provide a basis for the detailed regulation of these rights in the sub-legislative act, especially since everything is still open here. Of course, the law will also have to decide how to ensure that all believers of different religions are equal and that all have equal access to such spiritual care. Let me remind you that the proposaler is already engaged in inter-resort coordination of a new one, in pronouns, 'The Vatican Agreement' on spiritual religious care in institutions and environments where the stay of the affected is legally or 'de facto' limited. This law, like all others coming from the Ministry of Justice, loosens the legal basis for collecting some additional personal data and documents on the convict. In short, a convict who, by the nature of the matter, has been severely affected by the enforcement of criminal sanctions in his privacy, often in his dignity, becomes increasingly exposed and his personal data are on the palm of his hand. It's also eloquent that we don't get married. These are questions relating to the rights of work, the pension and disability insurance of convicts or the duty of pension insurance by the institution for convicts who meet certain conditions of work. The legislation on pension and invalidity insurance no longer provides such insurance for convicts. It is envisaged that if the Director of Administration were not sentenced to imprisonment for a period of up to two years for the offence of sexual inviolability, if they were not sentenced to imprisonment for the purpose of working or living at home within a week, they would normally spend the weekend in the institution. While this would in principle indicate support, in view of the inclusion of potential cases, it would be expected that there would already be greater pressure on the open departments of the institutions by convicts, and in practice, unfortunately, that is not the case. On this weekend, for example, the court is to replace a prison sentence of up to six months with a house prison under the supervision of a court or a police officer who is allowed to check the execution of a house prison at any time, even without the request of the court. This provision does not comply with the European recommendations on communities, sanctions and measures. These recommendations underline the importance of the defendant's cooperation, ensure that there must be no more supervision, as is necessary and necessary, underline the consent of the family, specially trained surveillance personnel and so on. Even in some other proposed provisions, it is not clear that the proposaler would be involved in European prison rules, but he focused more attention on how to strengthen the situation and how to enforce more order and discipline and repression. In this regard, instead of the officers so far, judicial officers who are armed, uniformly uniformed and bearing positions are being introduced, and the powers and powers of those officers are being extended. Justice officers are also following a fugitive protected person; without a court decision, they can enter a foreign residence and other premises as they pursue an escaped protected person. They may also identify or identify persons who come or leave protected facilities, carry out a personal examination of the visitor of a closed person and have the right to use coercive means during the course of their work. All these envisaged changes are questionable in terms of proportionality and the constitutionally protected human rights and constitutionally permissible restrictions on those rights. Of course, it is particularly disturbing that many of the proposed amendments are based on those amendments to the Penal Code and the Criminal Procedure Act, which have not been reached by a broader social and professional consensus. Therefore, as proposed, we will not support such a law in the Group of Social Democrats, but we will be very pleased if, in fact, it is thanks to this law that there will be an improvement in the situation in Slovenian prisons and, as the proposer promises, that all this new criminal law will lead to fewer people in Slovenia who will have to remain in prison in the future. That is what the proposer promises and we want to see these promises actually come true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by Mr Aleš Gulič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u76	Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, presidents, representatives of the Ministry! We do not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia from the very beginning. There are several reasons for this. At first, of course, this was a practice with regard to legislation that had not yet been adopted. You know that the proposal itself has already taken into account certain solutions or functionally related matters which were linked to an unadopted law, and later there are other reasons, so the content of the law has not changed during the adoption process. The biggest issue is that the law somehow regulates matters by making prison conditions worse or by covering up those who are already bad. There is a lot of talk about the different possibilities of passing sentences, which we certainly support, but what is related to prisons is said to be institutions for the enforcement of criminal sanctions, and remains the same. At this point, I would like to know how much better prison conditions will be, given what we have heard the last time at the emergency meeting of the committee, the overcrowding of prisons, the overcrowding of persons employed in prisons. That is to say, everything that speaks more in favor of the fact that the law should actually deal with it or make it possible for the prison situation to be better - but now, of course, we are not talking about luxury, so that it will not be read again. It's about basic things. It's about hygiene. It's about contacts. This is mainly because it is also impossible for additional penalties to be imposed on a person to remain in criminal sanctions. It's about torture, it's about mobbing, it's about everything that can happen in groups like this, even when they're big. On this point, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions does not bring about anything else. That is why we still insist that marriage is bad. It is true that much of this law is so deeply devoted to spiritual care in prisons, but let us be clear, it is not a matter of spiritual care in prisons, but it is a matter of dealing with those prisoners who are either Roman Catholic or can become. They do not have other options at this time, and in some ways it is an additional possibility of being baptized. At least after what this law can do, because it's completely open in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Good afternoon to Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Secretary of State with fellow Members! I will say, however, that the Members of New Slovenia will also support this amendment of the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions in this last reading, as we have supported it from the beginning. We are convinced that it brings great news, which will contribute to the improvement of the situation in Slovenian prisons. Nor can we pass the last or the last urgent meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, where we discussed the situation in prisons in particular, and the three escapes of two detainees and one prisoner. At the time, it was presented by the proponents how catastrophic things are in Slovenian prisons and how poor security is in Slovenian prisons. In Nova Slovenija we say that it is good that this meeting has come to light, that certain things have only been clarified. At that time, in his opening remarks, Minister Lovro Šturm presented those fundamental legal changes that were adopted and all went into light to improve the situation in the judiciary and also the situation in prisons. And this law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions undoubtedly brings a number of changes and novelties that have been directed in this direction. If I touch on some of the issues that improve these matters, the first step is to reduce administrative barriers. I'd call that a little less red tape after home. That people, prison officials will be less involved with the paperwork, with the administration, that only the most urgent administration will really be here, and they will be able to devote more time to their primary work, which is why they are in prison. The session exposed the lack of personnel in prisons. These prisons have been fighting for a longer period of time, and this problem has existed for as long as possible. Here I am pleased to say that, during the ministerial period of this government, this matter has been taken seriously, that these matters have begun to be regulated, that additional employment has been allowed, and that some new employment is still envisaged this month. So one of these major problems will certainly be solved. Another important novelty is certainly an opportunity to serve your sentence over weekends, even for a sentence of up to three years in prison. This is a very important measure in the view of New Slovenia. For a prisoner who behaves well, which is exemplary, it is certainly a very useful way, for he can normally live in his environment, go to work, go to school, or study and serve his sentence during weekends. We also welcome the house prison, which is now up to nine months. This measure certainly relieves prisons, and in some ways reduces the resources, I will say, of our taxpayers. Then we have work here for the general benefit. This measure is also important, since the prisoner will be able to serve his sentence for up to two years in a general way, either under the auspices or under the guidance of the Centre for Social Work. I have to stop here for a while. It is very important that prisoners have the opportunity to work, not only for work in general, but also in prison, so that prisoners are given the opportunity to work, study or educate. For the worst thing is for the prisoner, if he can't take advantage of his time in prison. And I'm sure with his work, the prisoner is best prepared for a later time when he gets out of prison. If I touch on the problem of the introduction of banned substances, there are mainly drugs, as well as alcohol, in prisons. I have to say, I'm surprised here, how is it possible for these substances to be introduced into the most protected facilities where there is constant security? That is why I must say, not that we welcome these measures, but obviously the situation is such that these measures are necessary, and this is that more mail, packages and phones are controlled. It is unheard of for the New Slovenia Group that a prisoner from prison can lead a new crime outside the prison, but we were aware that this was even happening. I'm sure that's not acceptable. Everyone mentioned the right to spiritual and pastoral care. In Nova Slovenija, we are convinced that it is also right for prisoners to have this opportunity if they want this spiritual and pastoral care in prison. It is only a European standard, a European standard for which it is time to come and live normally in Slovenia. I was happy to listen to Minister Erjavc on Radio Fire yesterday when he said how perfectly normal it is and how it is time to achieve this in Slovenia. I am very pleased that the party DeSUS has made this clear and public. If I finish these thoughts. Prison conditions are bad, they're not good, but the government and the minister have done a lot of things to make these things better. However, it is probably right to say on this occasion that we still need to know that prison did not want to or perhaps even a better case - prison is not a hospital. And in New Slovenia we certainly do not agree that conditions or conditions for life in prison should be better than in the hospital. But we know, at least those who visit hospitals a little more, that our hospitals are in poor condition, that even in our hospitals are not good conditions. And it is right to take care of the better situation in hospitals where people are not guilty, as in prisons where people are guilty. As I said, the New Slovenia Group will support this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u80	Honourable President, Honourable Secretary of State with fellow Members, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. Good-bye. The reason for the adoption of this bill is not only the shortcomings which have over time appeared in the law itself on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, but also all the amendments made to the other laws which are in any way related to criminal law. It is therefore a matter of urgent harmonisation with a view to ensuring that the entire package of criminal law can also be properly revived in practice and, more importantly, has a positive impact on the system of our criminal law. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, as we think the reasons for it, as stated by the proposer, are appropriate and good. It has been shown that the enforcement of criminal sanctions has not always been the most professional and correct. They were also repeatedly questioned about the rights of convicted persons. The proposal is also important in order to harmonise our law with the international legal order and the Statute of the International Criminal Court, which in particular points to the need to recast the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions in order to be up to date and up to date. An example of this is the need to regulate the enforcement of the prison sentence of convicts of the International Criminal Court who would remain in our country. Amendments to the law are expected to reduce the number of administrative matters, as some cases that have so far been resolved by issuing an administrative decision will be dealt with in a different way. We will also support the bill because it significantly reduces unnecessary administrative burdens for professional workers in prisons, guards and other prison personnel. A positive change also seems to us that authorised persons in institutions will have direct electronic access to the records of state and other authorities or that internal and external electronic commerce will be introduced. We believe that, in this case, it is about removing administrative barriers, simplifying work and also reducing time to obtain certain data. We also support the introduction of various incentives for the work of prisoners and the fact that prison benefits depend largely on the fact that, or the convict of work and of course also on education. We believe that socialization is a very important aspect in any prison sentence. The essence of a prison sentence is not only a sanction as such, but a possibility of socialisation affecting an individual. From this point of view, it is the task of each institution to prepare the professional staff of the convicts adequately for life after release and for re-inclusion in the environment. This aspect of social inclusion planning, together with professional staff, also seems to the Member of the SLS Group to be an extremely important part of the passing of the sentence itself. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, also because it gives greater emphasis to alternative forms of enforcement and because we believe that it also brings a number of positive news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Ivan Yelen will present the views of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Members of Parliament and Members of the Government! In the broadest sense, criminal law is characterised by the strong systemic integration of all institutions in this area. Change of one requires adjustment of the other. The regulation of the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions is linked and conditional on other criminal, criminal and social protection rules if they are to achieve their purpose. In the DeSUS Group, we do not doubt the appropriateness of the Institute of Labour Enforcement to the general benefit of the Court of Justice in replacing the sentence of imprisonment for up to two years, as we assess that the proposed regime follows the practical experience of both pennologists and other professions in this field and achieves an appropriate degree of democraticism and rule of law in our country. We attach greater weight to alternative forms of imprisonment to DeSUS members, as we estimate that they will make a significant contribution to reducing overcrowding in Slovenian prisons, which ultimately results in a shortage of staff, overcrowding of workers in detention facilities and high budget spending. The execution of work in general benefit is already now as a sanction embedded in various stages of criminal or criminal proceedings carried out by centres for social work for minors, persons who are assigned to work in general benefit in the pre-trial procedure and for convicts and perpetrators of offences. The proposed law also defines this sanction more specifically by removing administrative barriers. We insist that, in this case, it is a Community sanction where the offender is to settle the damage by his contribution in the form of his work in the area of self-government of the local community where he resides. We are confident that a great deal of community service will be touched in the sense that in the future it will be more prudent and, therefore, in accordance with positive legislation and without negative consequences, not least for society as a whole. However, this institution, this sanction, must also be fully regulated, so that the DeSUS Members will support the amendment tabled by the Lip Group of Members, that the Ministry of Justice is the authority responsible for the adoption of the sub-legislative act to establish clear guidelines, rules and tasks for this way of carrying out criminal sanctions, as well as for the supervision of the execution of those tasks. The novel itself contains several solutions that, according to our assessment, will have a significant and positive impact on the purpose of penology and the re-establishment of convicted persons. As appropriate and necessary, we also assess the amendment tabled to Article 51 for a more detailed regulation of the criminal sanction for the enforcement of work in general favour. Members of the DeSUS will therefore unanimously support both the proposed amendment and the amendment to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! After all, every law we adopt in the National Assembly has a purpose and purpose that contains something good and something bad. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I have presented my views at first reading and, as I am about to now, have criticised in particular the part that speaks of the International Criminal Court. And once again, in the Slovenian National Party, we do not think it appropriate to keep foreign maggots in Slovenia with our money. I'm still insisting on that. And we have a great reason. Slovenia is, for example, committed to respect and enforce the judgments of the International Criminal Court. But Slovenia must also address those issues that are not addressed by the International Criminal Court. By this logic, we'll say, okay, if it doesn't work, we'll use the Slovenians' rules that we have. But we can't do that. So the solution is perfectly clear - international maggots back to where they caused the lumper. And let's get rid of them, save money and make a difference, which is why this law was actually created - to relieve the number of prisoners in Slovenian prisons. And this is still the position we have in the Slovenian National Party. Also, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have been questioned in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions on the Introduction of Spiritual Care. Not because of spiritual provisions. We are convinced that this part is already a violation of Article 7 of the Constitution. Because, you know, every thing we write down in a law is binding, so it's binding. That means we've reached into an area where we said it had to be. That is why it is not right for us to make this provision in the law because it is a violation, believe me, and many are, Article 7 of the Constitution, which is still in force - that the interference of the State, the Church and vice versa is not in Slovenia, after the constitution. On the other hand, if we are constructive, objective, and those who have participated in many discussions and discussions on another law, namely the Penal Code, you have heard in particular in one of the very reverberating shows what serious problems are in our prisons. The overcrowding of guards, according to the new law enforcement officers, overcrowded prisons, in some parts of the already inhumane situation and, if we are honest, and if we review this law we are talking about today, this law seeks to reduce the spatial hardships in prisons. This law, with some articles, seeks to relieve law enforcement officers. This is also the truth that needs to be told. I had listened carefully to all the speakers before, and interestingly, there was one speaker that I agree with — house arrest is something very good. I don't think that's bad if someone's home. Of course it's that someone walks in without you - clearly you won't know how to announce it now, but some relationship should be settled. I don't think I'm up for it now, either. I don't know. At midnight, someone comes if they don't, because they're bored and they break into my apartment. On one side. On the other hand, it seems strange to me that we are sensitive in this area, but on the other hand, for example, it happens that - because I do not say and here we find a parallel, individual employers to the workers of the home, who are unannounced in the hospital stock, directly send control on their noses, whether they are at home or accidentally in the yard, they carry the trash because they are not so sick that they can't get out into the air and breathe. But that's what they can do. That's how we need to find a parallel here. If they can do so when they think so, perhaps even for some reason some employers will not find someone once, just so that they can legally get rid of them quickly. Thus, some supervision is necessary, but it is true that these provisions must already be introduced by the amendment or by means of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Enforcement of Penal Sanctions, but some of the content still needs to be completed. It is clear that the control that house arrest is a new civilisational acquisition must be a relief for someone, such as a relief for someone if they can serve their sentences during the weekend and otherwise live a normal life, and these controls should also be defined, perhaps by some sub-law, that they will be slightly different so that they will not allow too many individual characteristics of one individual overseer who can be a grave may be a "grey", but can be very human, objective and not control at all. These are, however, the contents to be completed. We have therefore decided in the Slovenian National Party to draw attention once again to mistakes that are unacceptable to us. On the other hand, we have found, and we are convinced, that this bill seeks to reduce spatial distress and relieve judicial officers, in parallel - and consequently - to improve the situation, so we will not oppose this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u85	Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš will present the position of the Lipa Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary of State or Secretary of the Ministry of Justice with colleagues! I may be in a bit of a twist at the beginning, because, I will say, at least in the previous reading of this law, we had serious concerns in the Lipa Group in the context of certain proposed solutions concerning the law itself, which were challenged and rejected. Nevertheless, it turned out that we were right. That is precisely because today, Mr State Secretary at the Ministry said he supported the amendment we had drafted in cooperation with them for the third consideration of the proposed law. I am so much more in the dilemma, because I doubt that everything you and the coalition Members have advocated as a good solution is really good. I have certain concerns. I will say that you say that the main purpose of the proposed law is to relieve Slovenian prisons. This is a bad solution if we want to achieve this goal or the goal, it is true to relieve Slovenian prisons by favouring conditional discharges. That's a bad solution. The aim of such laws must not be that fewer people will be held in prison. The purpose of such laws must be, or all criminal law, to reduce the number of criminal offences, to reduce the number of perpetrators and consequently to reduce the number of victims of crimes. In presenting the views of one of the parliamentary groups, I have heard that the proposed law is too restrictive to prisoners who commit crimes, that the criminal policy in our country is too harsh. That person or that person wondered what happened to the dignity of the prisoners, the convicts, the perpetrators of the crimes. I wonder, what about the dignity of the victims? When we have an area of criminal policy ahead of us, not only the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, it is not a top law in this area, but it is important, it is true, but when we have an entire area of criminal policy ahead of us, the dignity of those who have suffered harm, irreparable harm for someone who thanks God is legally condemned. This is the value system on which I stand and which I defend on behalf of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. A system of values that says that each person is capable of performing a task must be held accountable for his or her actions. Personal or personal rights of individuals are also and must be limited to the personal and personal rights of others. It is therefore right that criminal policy is such that it determines the value of a valuable system or of people's lives. The perpetrators of crimes are also murderers, including rapists, and are pedophiles. Once again, it is right that we have clearly defined rules of the game in the context of criminal policy, we cannot, we cannot mercy the five people who have committed a crime, a serious crime, in fact, once again, say that every person who is capable of work in our country must be responsible for their actions. Another point that I am expressing in the framework of the proposed law - Article 8. I find it difficult to believe that the content of the proposed article can be implemented in practice. It reads: "The director of the institution may allow convicts who have been sentenced to imprisonment for up to 36 months, "and so on" if they are personalized and are regularly employed or educated to remain in their working or educational environment, relationship and residence at home during the remainder of the week, except on leave, usually at the end of the week when they must be in the institution." Who are "personalized persons"? Who decides? "Are they regularly employed, educated" - do they also belong to this category of people who, I will say, have committed a crime in the field of economic crime? These are persons who are regularly employed, personal, in principle, arranged, also personally arranged. Do these categories of people also belong to those against whom the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of Janez Janša - Tykuni, fights so much? I don't know, I'm asking! I say that certain solutions under the proposed law are unclear or, in some respects, even ridiculous, illogical. Like an illogical solution, we also introduce and favor spiritual care. I will also touch on my own spiritual care within the framework of Slovenian prisons. About a time, months, half a year ago, if not a year ago, when I warned the Minister of Justice for the first time about the seriously unsustainable situation in Slovenian prisons, the Minister of Justice said: "No, in Slovenian prisons everything is fine and right." Also, guards who work truly under difficult conditions for minimum wage, including guards, are fine and right, having a good job, regardless of the danger they face 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Their salary is not comparable to that of a person who provides spiritual care in prison, and it is several times lower. And you know why? What was the Minister of Justice's explanation? Because those who provide spiritual care in prisons are some kind of coordinator. The coordinators of what? Who? What, then, about persons carrying out psychosocial rehabilitation in Slovenian prisons, with regular employees of social workers, with regular employed psychologists? They too have a lower salary than the new spiritual coordinators! I believe, however, that they are a significantly more indispensable and important article within the entire system, not only at the time of the end of the prison sentence, but also at the time when the person ceases the prison sentence. Certain solutions, as has already been said, are truly illogical, incomplete. I wonder if this law has been written to relieve Slovenian prisons, to relieve workers of how many new jobs the Ministry of Justice plans in the framework of Slovenian prisons. At the outset, I mentioned the amendment that we tabled in the third reading because it was unfortunately rejected in the second reading. This amendment touches on the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice, which has prescribed a new form of penalties, penalties in a kind of humanitarian work or part of the general benefit of society. Great responsibility is also placed on social work centres, despite the fact that the Ministry, as our amendment will be adopted, will draw up a regulation or some kind of sub-legislative act under which the rules will be regulated. However, huge responsibility has been transferred to social work centres, which will keep an eye on the work of the perpetrators of crime. Are new jobs also foreseen within social work centres? Let me remind you, dear colleagues and colleagues, indeed, because the centres for social work in recent years or months have been loaded with a lot of new work. Social work centres are abandoning the basic activity they should be carrying out, and this is the activity of advising users. Unfortunately, social work centres are only becoming some kind of operating service, which is bad. I hope that I will be given answers to the question in the course of the debate, but the dilemma remains, either because of a single amendment to a proposal that has been taken into account or will be taken into account in the third reading, to support all the solutions proposed, which are not the best, most rational, or to leave the door open, or perhaps in the future, when the question is still open, the need to change this law and this area, to put a stop to "i", I will say my debate today.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u87	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a full law. Mrs. Maja Zupan has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The new law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions actually brings changes and improvements to life in Slovenian prisons, both for those who are going through prison sentences and for those who care about them. We know that the situation in Slovenian prisons is difficult because they are overcrowded because they are often spatially inadequate because they are understaffed. We also discussed this at an extraordinary meeting, and I am glad that the novel we are discussing today also brings a larger number of employees. In particular, the number of security guards taking care of the order and protection of prisoners is problematic. Security officials actually benefit from a large number of overtimees, which is already a threat to their personal and family life, and I am sure that today's novelties, which we will accept, will show that there is a great consensus, will help to make the situation better. The Novela also reduces the administration of the professional staff and allows them to spend most of their time on what they are actually trained to do, and also brings new forms of prison sentences, both for weekends, which is applicable to prisoners who are personalized and can in fact only be closed during the weekend, then house imprisonment for up to 9 months, which means a cheaper option for the state and more favourable for the prisoners, then work for the general benefit where the centre for social work can also play an important role. All these innovations and others that I would not list mean, as I said, an improvement in the situation in our prisons, which is why I support the novel, are also better and more favourable conditions for socialisation and for the inclusion of prisoners in society, which should also be given special attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Joseph Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't have much time, so at four points, I'm going to take my reasons for absolutely supporting this law. The law brings high-quality solutions to all those issues provided for in the Statute of the International Criminal Court relating to the enforcement of the judgments of this Court in the event that the convicted person ends his sentence in the Republic of Slovenia. Another time. The law brings quality solutions because it reduces the number of administrative matters in which the General Administrative Procedure Act is applied in a subsidiary manner. Third time. The bill offers quality solutions in the field of providing spiritual pastoral care for imprisoned persons because man is a spiritual being and not because man is supposed to be a church creature as some in-depth debate. And the fourth time. The bill provides quality solutions by introducing an update of professional terminology in the direction of harmonisation, regulation of the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions with modern penitentiary guidelines and modern principles within the framework in question. Other amendments and additions do not concern substantive substantive changes, but they only complement or make clear the existing provisions. This is just a few reasons why I will support the marriage by myself and my colleagues as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Miran Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The Government, in which the Ministry of Justice has decided to carry out a very thorough revision of important provisions, particularly in the criminal law field, in this coming-to-the-end mandate. We have adopted amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, the new Penal Code, we have adopted amendments in the field of legal counsel. We now have a sufficiently important amendment to the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. We are not in the Group of Social Democrats, and we do not today oppose the serious analysis and the need for a number of changes, but we have always felt that the changes proposed by the Government and the Ministry of Justice have not been sufficiently followed by problems and thinking about how to solve these problems in practice. Above all, they were not sensitive to the opinions they had and still have today by people who will have to implement new solutions. This is true in the case of a lawyer, which is the case in the Criminal Procedure Act and the Penal Code, for at least not so insignificant, but an important part of the criminal law profession and, in particular, the practice in the courts. As far as the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions is concerned, this is true of the guardian so far, according to the new police, which is supposed to implement the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. We've had more interviews with the security personnel union in the prisons. They support some of the solutions, but at the same time they warn that problems, as they feel and as we perceive them, with the proposed amendments and amendments to the law will not be solved. Let me say that in the Group of Social Democrats, as well as I personally see that, with regard to the whole issue of crime, the system of sanctions and punishment and the passing of penalties, it is only necessary to look at things as a whole and to distinguish the different role that individual parts have in this whole. By means of a criminal code, we ensure that criminal acts which are dangerous are harmful to fellow citizens, to public interest and also to the State, and by criminal procedure, which will ensure fair trial and trial within a reasonable time. However, the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions has a different purpose. Its purpose is no longer merely to punish the person who has committed the crime and has been fairly convicted, but to ensure, in the interests of the State and society, that the way of putting an end to the punishment is such that through the programme, it will also allow the necessary education, socialisation and, wherever possible, its return to normal life, so as not to repeat in the future the crimes he has committed previously. In this context, whether the proposed law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions provides sufficient grounds, the question is, although some news, especially "for the weekend", to house prisons, public or socially beneficial works, and the question is whether other conditions have been created to ensure this. I would also like to refer to the last debate in the home work body, where the guards, security personnel, now, according to the new police in the judiciary, the judicial police, have pointed out that many of the problems in their situation and thus the situation of the prisoners have not been adequately regulated. Prisons are too small, in prisons there are not only 30, but up to 80% more prisoners than they should be. To this end, there are significantly fewer guards than they should be by standards. The Ministry of Justice has not fulfilled its obligations in recent years to increase the number of guards. On the contrary, a large number of guards have been reduced to this account in order to increase that part of the employees of the Ministry of Justice who carry out other activities, perhaps more important for the Minister and the Government, for security in the country, for the resocialisation of prisoners, and certainly not. And in this part, it seems to us that the solutions that are in the proposed law will not be able to produce adequate results if, at the same time, the Ministry of Justice is not more consistent with the promises it makes, these obligations are also fulfilled. If it is not possible to prepare programmes for retraining, if it is not possible to ensure such status of prisoners, that the programme can be implemented, if, through overcrowded prisons, there is a constant danger to their security and their mutual relations, and if, in so doing, there is a great danger to the situation of the guards, then such a law will not be able to meet the objectives it has; but they are certainly not the first and first to be punished only, but vice versatably, first and foremost, a consistent implementation, a fair implementation of the sentence, in order to bring about the necessary re-education, new labour and social practices, which would allow such a prisoner, after the end of the sentence, to be properly, honestly, creatively, to be brought into life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. The law introduces a series of novelties known to other systems of enforcement of criminal sanctions across Europe and changes to the law also relate to the implementation of the Statute of the International Court of Justice. In short, the type of news that both professional and general public support. Therefore, it is only by reason of the argument that this law is fasting that it cannot be challenged by the adoption of this law - as the opposition points out. It is necessary to state the specific reasons why what is introduced in this law is not good. If there is any concern, the concerns should be raised. However, there are certainly no arguments as to what I have heard in the last debate, namely that there is not enough guards to ensure that the law does not go into this. Just so that they are employed at the Ministry of Justice - this is not an argument for this, nor is it money for work and for programmes for the socialisation and rehabilitation of convicts - this is not the subject of this law, but the subject of another law. However, there will have to be some other arguments, some other arguments that will run counter to what is actually being introduced, which are: the effective, economical and professional enforcement of criminal sanctions, this is what the Slovenian public requires, the removal of administrative obstacles, then the guardians are equal to the guards, so that they will be discussed in a new way, just like the judicial security officers - I do not see any problem, alternative penalties - we have been talking about these for a long time. Why should not those who are not, of course, convicted of a crime of sexual inviolability and the like continue to be alternative incarceration, which is more valuable to all; then restricting the shipments to prisoners - what has happened and is still happening - the spread of drugs in prisons. We're definitely against it. Updated disciplinary procedure, removal of prison and, of course, a much better approach to integration in work and employment. These are the kinds of novelties that I cannot oppose after all the approaches, analytical and weighty. Maybe you'd have some dilemmas about house arrest, but that's enough good news to back them up.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u95	Thank you. Dr. Pavlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Honourable Secretary of State with fellow Members, Honourable Member, Members and Professional Fellows. Although I am no longer a member of the parent working body, I have been approached by quite a few officials in the field of enforcement of criminal sanctions, so in recent months I have asked Minister Šturm a number of questions on this subject, namely, living difficulties in Slovenian prisons, then on the lack of staff at the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, the lack of financial resources to maintain prisons, the long delay in the adoption of a specific regulation for the enforcement or implementation of security measures, in particular for the treatment of alcoholics and drug addicts, which is approximately 50% in our prisons, and also with regard to attracting foreign capital to economic units in Slovenian prisons. The issue sparked a rather violent public and media debate, but it was largely bob against the wall. Notwithstanding many professional comments, the amendment has apparently reduced the law to a third treatment and will be adopted in these days. In doing so, I stress that the pennological profession still has the following important comments, and I am sorry that Comrade Drobnič is not in the Chamber, because I am going to give him five concrete comments that have not grown on my cabbage, but on the herbs of those who really get to know and deal with this issue for many years. First time. In their view, the law does not make any significant progress or contribution to reducing the burden on workers in this area. Instead of a procedure under the administrative procedure law, a description of the individual decision is provided. Secondly, as already mentioned, a judicial security police is being introduced, following the example of countries that do not have a reputation for modern treatment of prison systems, such as Italy, France and Slovakia. Why the proposal did not look at many other European countries that have such a problem at a significantly higher level, which, last but not least, is being examined and confirmed by the Council of Europe, and many other organisations dealing with the protection of human rights. Thirdly, there are no human resources and material possibilities for the implementation of court protections, so additional resources and staff will be needed. I'm sorry, but I'm sure he doesn't claim that this law will have no material consequences. How he'll have them! Fourthly, in our view, court protection with private services would be significantly cheaper, perhaps even for half. Finally, the profession says that the law in some parts is not in line with European prison rules. I agree with those who say that the prisons did not even want to, even fewer hospitals, or if I caricate my colleague Barovic, nor are there any sponsors for international magpies. But he also claims that even prisoners, that I am not even talking about employees, deserve dignity and fair treatment, which this novel will not bring to them in full. That's why I won't be able to back you up, and I won't argue with her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u97	Thank you. Mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I am once again interested in the proposal for a third-reading law from the Commission's experience on petitions and on human rights and equal opportunities. The Commission is addressed both by individuals and by groups of prisoners, who point primarily to the spatial hardship in Slovenian prisons and to the unworthy conditions in which they live. Bad practices, which are very widespread among prisoners, reduce the possibility of prison performing the function that it is intended to perform, after all, in order to convince the individual who has broken the law of the necessity of punishment and the desire to return to life without this burdensome life path. However, because of the situation as it is in prisons, there is very little chance that prisoners will be well integrated into society after the end of the sentence. And when I look from the point of view of these applications that we receive - the talk is about the violation of human rights that I can understand as well as that minimum standard, in this case when it comes to the passing of a prison sentence; therefore, if I look at this law from this point of view, then I cannot promise myself that in a short time I will bring, despite the renaming, that we now have a judicial police and something else, despite some other measures that may mean better treatment for the majority of religions on this salary, but for all other members of religious groups or atheists - this does not mean any significant improvement. So there are a lot of comments at the expense of what is going on, and if I listen to or judge by what has been heard in connection with the criminal code or public debates, how experts, lawyers and those who have experience with how work and life in prisons are going on, they do not believe that preventive or facilitating roles in prisons are not being carried out, especially by socialising a person for better inclusion in society after the sentence has been suspended, then I cannot say that optimism in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Gulic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u100	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I immediately told most of the cases in the presentation of the views of the Group of Members, but again in the debate there was a talk about how nice and good prisoners were, what they had in these institutions, where they were going through their sentences, and of course something else had to be taken away. Of course, the truth is fundamentally different. People who are sentenced to prison sentences are also sentenced to a different regime of life and certainly should not be made difficult for them, but must not be allowed to carry out additional penalties, internal executions, torture, harassment, sexual abuse and injury. You know all this is happening, and you know that when people are too many, things are even more complicated. If this bill allowed for a better situation, a different life, then I would certainly be happy to support it, but nothing shows that this will happen. At the same time, we also have constantly ahead of us the concerns of people who deal with this every day, daily, and the penological professions, and also of all those who work in prisons. We heard a lot about this last Friday at the urgent meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, and as if, of course, things had passed. It's like dogs are barking and the caravan is moving on. The third thing that is of course disturbing is that the law was formed so unusually. It is said that he appeared before his birthright and already contained adjustments. That's why we argued at the beginning, too. Comrade Drobnic has, of course, drawn this today. Today, of course, this is no longer a reason, but the content has not changed. The content has not changed and, of course, everything that a marriage can bring is not only good. I certainly agree with and support some things. Above all, those who speak of alternative possibilities for the passing of sentences - almost everyone. Of course, in socially beneficial work, I would expect some clearer provisions, but mainly this part is certainly good, because right here I see the possibility that some things will be released. The other thing is the formation of the so-called police of justice. Here, however, I think we are being exaggerated in some way; and once again, we have, in fact, in some way, planted purely and only positive arguments or such arguments that are in the interest of the applicants, and there are no concerns as if the world were black and white. However, a third matter or a fourth is, of course, a strong attachment to the so - called spiritual care. Of course, it is the care of Christians, or those in the community of Roman Catholics, that does not touch others; but if so, they are offered this option, which is certainly unfair and does not speak for the equal treatment of all believers. The matter is related to the so-called Religious Freedom Act, which should have the title of the Law on Religious Involvement, and in some ways enables the employment of the dedicated persons of the Roman Catholic Church in the state institutions in particular. The matter would, of course, be resolved differently, by requiring those who are going to end the sentence to ask the dedicated person of his religion to do this, spiritual things, and of course, because it is the country that is making this impossible to do so, it would only cover the costs. Thus, when, of course, it employs only and only the people of one religion who are supposed to do it first for all Christians, it is said, we have Orthodoxes here, and there are other religious confessions, evangelicals, then it can extend to all those who are bound by this Jewish-Christian tradition. There is also Islam, of course, that no one will forget, and I do not know how they will convince people that it is one and the same and so on and so forth. It is said that a number of matters that have very clear consequences are not taken into account by law in some way. This does not require any expert and diagnostic system, what will happen. One will have, the other will not; the other will be treated with a kind of positive privilege, the other with a negative privilege. And if we add that to everything that's going on right now, then we see that the law isn't about life and this world, it's about illusion. And that's why we won't support him in the Liberal Democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u101	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In my brief debate, I would only, in fact, hold back in the debate, regrettably absent from the Chamber of Comrade Drobnik, who has been able to report to the opposition that he opposes this law, but does not have the right arguments for it or does not state these arguments. In my presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats, I have made very clear the arguments why the Group of Social Democrats of this law will not support it. In particular, I would like to point out that the actual proposal for this law has not been exemplary in those countries which have more modern approaches and which are more modern in ensuring the enforcement of criminal sanctions. In this respect, of course, it is more than well known that in some Scandinavian countries, they are going far ahead of other countries in dealing with these problems. Indeed, I also see no reason why, for example, our proposaler did not follow the situation there and would also try this law, our law in some way to adapt to some of the already established ways of enforcing the enforcement of criminal sanctions. We have heard many warnings from both the Member species and the professions, the penological professions and other professions that actually deal with these things continuously and professionally. Indeed, the law does not take into account exactly and sufficiently European laws and other documents of the Council of Europe, which have also already established certain standards in this area and would, of course, be taken into account by us, especially if the proposer then also boasts that this law is now good, advanced and that we are modern in this area, which of course is not true. The third thing I'd like to say is that I think it's inappropriate for some people here to put their grades in particular. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] That we don't deal enough with the problem of victims of crime. [[...]] The fact is that we are talking about the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and, therefore, such comments are inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u103	Thank you. And Mr. Marolt, on behalf of the Government's proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. If you don't mind, there's something else I'd like to explain. I listened with interest to this discussion with my colleagues. At the outset, I must explain that this amendment to the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions was prepared by a working group composed exclusively of the types of experts employed both in the administration for the enforcement of criminal sanctions and in individual prisons and, of course, in the Ministry of Justice. The amendment was attended by both penitential workers, such as other treatment staff, guards, prison management and even representatives of the union employed in Slovenian prisons, which was also explained on the parent board, as explained by the president of the labour union himself. Therefore, any doubt that the profession has not been involved or that it is obvious that the profession has not been involved in the amendment of this law is completely superfluous. That's all we have recorded. I must also explain immediately that it is at the initiative of the profession, at the initiative of representatives of the staff of the staff of the treatment group in this working group, that this amendment has taken place, which eliminates the duplication of their work, which eliminates the so-called team decision-making, and then through team decision-making, in particular the decision-making and issuance of the management of the special administrative procedure and the decision-making after the ZUP. The profession has prepared this solution that simplifies their work, which introduces a so-called personal plan, which is a written document signed by the convict and on behalf of the institution or management of the institution, the head of the professional team. The design of the personal plan shall take into account all the circumstances and findings of the individual conviction, the changes and, of course, the active participation of the convicted person as far as possible. Because experience elsewhere in Europe and around the world shows that the planning of the sentence is most successful when the convict is actively involved in the planning process. This is also recommended by the standards of minimum rules for the treatment of convicts of the United Nations. In this regard, I must also categorically reject the assertion that European prison rules have not been followed, in order to disregard the recommendations of the Council of Europe. On the contrary, this amendment takes into account the recommendations of the Council of Europe and also respects European prison rules. With regard to the so-called work in general, with the alternative enforcement of criminal sanctions, which will be taken care of by the competent social work centres in cooperation with the employment institutions, I must stress that the so-called Community sanctions, including work in general benefit, should be organised so that posted persons can remain in their home environment and do not come into contact with prison staff. These principles are based on the recommendations of the Council of Europe. It also follows from the Council of Europe's recommendations that these sanctions should be regulated in a comprehensive manner, that this area is managed by one service, namely social work centres, in cooperation with the employment institutions with adequately qualified staff, and is present in local communities. I also need to clarify that social work centres are already leading these tasks, the so-called general benefit work, for prosecutors and minors in forecasting and other procedures. And it is the centres for social work in Slovenia that have a network in the entire local environment, because we have 62 centres for social work scattered across Slovenia and are the only service or I can say, the only existing service with conditions, knowledge, presence in local communities for the full, quality and transparent implementation of these sanctions for all categories of offenders and also for offences. If you allow, I would also quote the Council of Europe Recommendation R-92/16, the so-called European rules on Community sanctions and measures which stipulate that the trial must be carried out in local communities. And social work centres, in cooperation with employment agencies, are in local communities, but they are not in local communities of prisons, which we have practically five. The European rules on Community sanctions and measures in Rule 45 also require Member States to use all the relevant resources already in existence in the communities, i.e. social work centres, in cooperation with employment agencies, when implementing Community sanctions and measures. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make this clear - the network, not just that it's scattered, is also humanely strong. It is about 1000 employees in social work centres, plus about 1000 employees in employment institutions. We must not forget that employment agencies have fewer jobs than they had in the past when there were, I don't know, 130, 140 thousand unemployed people. Now this number has practically halved. It is therefore a matter of simplifying the implementation of all alternative sanctions in the Republic of Slovenia in one place, as I have already mentioned, as has already been done for minors and in the forecasting process. With regard to the spiritual and pastoral provisions mentioned above, you will find that only members of a religious community will be cared for. That's not true, that's not true. Under the same conditions, every convict is allowed to carry out religious activities, regardless of his religious beliefs or his membership of the religious community. So everyone will be provided under the same conditions. Regarding this meeting of Slovenian prisons. Indeed, prisons are currently overcrowded, at present 20% more prisoners than existing capacity, but some prisons are occupied only 63% and some, as is known to the public - Ljubljana and Maribor, are currently overcrowded. However, this is not the subject of this law, which is why Mr Lovro Šturm, Minister of Justice, adopted a regulation amending and supplementing the rules on the enforcement of prison sentences, which was published in the Official Journal No 62/2008, which clearly sets out the duties of directors of the administration for the enforcement of criminal sanctions and directors of institutions to ensure the equal employment of Slovenian prisons. The procedure for the relocation of convicts due to the over-the-average employment of one prison, which begins on a proposal from the Director of Prisons, is more clearly regulated. The simplified content of the procedure is specified in more detail, a clear criterion for decision-making is defined, and there are also significantly shorter deadlines for procedural actions, and there is also a provision for simplification of business, all with a view to ensuring a more even burden on Slovenian prisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u105	Thank you. We are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled, namely Article 51 and the amendment of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We have concluded the debate on the law and amendment, which, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, will be decided tomorrow, Friday, 11 July, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On the day-to-day basis, this is the report on the part of the 2007 Discussion Room. The report was proposed by the Commission for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities for consideration by the assembly. I'm giving the president a word. Majda Travel for further explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! At its 35th meeting in mid-May this year, the Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities considered a report on the work of the Advocate for 2007. Report in accordance with the Law on the Implementation of the Principle of Equal Treatment and the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men shall be considered and adopted by the Government. However, the Commission has examined the report in accordance with its competence laid down in Article 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and in the Decree establishing and discharging the tasks of the working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Following the presentation of the report, the Commission decided after the discussion to submit to the National Assembly for consideration at the plenary session a report on the work of the Advocate for 2007 and also to propose to the National Assembly the adoption of a recommendation which reads as follows: The Government should examine the appropriateness of the legal arrangements for the position of the Advocate or Advocate and the financial basis for the functioning of this institution and propose any amendments. In view of the fact that this has happened for the first time that we are considering the report of the Advocate at the plenary session, let me also say something about how the Institute of Advocates has been set up and what we have already found in the reports. For the first time, for petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, the Commission considered the Ombudsman's report in April 2006 when it had three reports before it: the 2004 report of the Advocate for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men and two 2005 reports. Why is that? The Advocate for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men began to work on the basis of the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men in the Second Half of 2003, and the first report concerned only those issues which concerned cases of alleged gender inequality and the issue of opinions in this regard. In 2005, she also started working as an advocate of the principle of equality, which began its work under the Law on the Implementation of the Principle of Equal Treatment. Therefore, the 2005 report was presented as two separate reports. One concerned, for example, the unequal treatment of women's and men's opportunities, while the other dealt with cases of alleged discrimination based on different personal circumstances in any area of social life. The purpose of both institutions is to firstly identify the existence of discrimination and raise awareness of the general public, as well as of potential victims and violators of the prohibition of discrimination. The Advocate is therefore not an institution to prosecute offenders, but can, on the basis of the powers given by the law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment, only give an initiative to the competent inspectorate. The procedure with the advocate is informal, free of charge, an initiative can be taken by anyone who feels discriminated against. The initiatives resulting from both reports were mainly related to discrimination in relation to working relations and the accessibility of different services for 2004 and 2005. In 2005, however, there was also a strong increase in initiatives by fathers in particular on unequal treatment in the allocation of children to education and care and in the management of contacts. Since the proponent should submit a report by March of the current year, the Commission at its 25th meeting addressed the report of the proponent of the principle of equality and equal opportunities for women and men for 2006 in May last year. In practice, it noted that all those involved in the proceedings before the Advocate are involved in the proceedings, so that they respond to the pleadings of the Advocate or in most cases respond to the calls of the Advocate, and in most cases also respect the opinion issued by the Advocate or her recommendations. 43 cases were dealt with in 2006, of which 16 were related to gender discrimination, followed by discrimination due to disability, age, nationality or ethnicity. In 20 cases, the procedure was completed by issuing an opinion and in other cases, due to procedural arrangements, the procedure could not be continued or in five cases it was found that discrimination existed but that an appropriate measure could not be imposed. Almost half of the cases were also linked to the market and labour relations in 2006, some shortcomings were also identified by irregularity, suffering in the workplace, as you know, for a long time we used the term mobbing or emotional abuse, and as many as nine cases where the advocate was unable to address them because it was not possible to define it as an infringement related to a particular personal experience or circumstance. This was particularly pointed out by the advocate. All other cases or a large majority of them have shown that in practice there is a considerable misunderstanding of the concept of discrimination. Instigators often point out that they are discriminated against, that they do not have the same options, but then it turns out that there is a lack of personal circumstances as a reason for the problem to be addressed. At the time of the consideration of the 2006 report on the work of the Advocate, we listened to the Commission's very extensive and in-depth opinion of the Ombudsman, which pointed out some weaknesses in the functioning of advocates, who are of a systemic nature, not individual or personal responsibility, which would be linked to a specific employee of the Office for Equal Opportunities as an advocate of equality. Here, in particular, it points out that the Ombudsman has also made an announcement to the advocate that the law on the principle of equal treatment was subsequently amended, but in the opinion of some in the Commission and in particular the opposition groups, as well as the parliamentary groups, the Ombudsman, also the amended law, is still a poor solution which does not guarantee the full independence of the equality institution and will probably also need to be regulated by warnings from the European Union in such a way that there will be no conflict of interest. In particular, we should point out that, in 2006, in the absence of such formal, evident independence of the Advocate, the report of the Advocate of Equality was signed by the Director of the Office for Equal Opportunities. The Office, however, is aware of how it is involved, and the supporter is placed in the system as a high-ranking official who is supposed to have guaranteed independence, but is subordinate, as said, to the Director of the Office. This is, in particular, contrary to the requirements of Article 13 of the so-called European Union Race Directive, which, as it is said, requires the independence of the body carrying out the tasks under this Directive. It is therefore a matter of ensuring personal, organisational, functional and financial independence. Most of the substantive problems referred to in the 2006 report do not deviate from past years' issues. However, what was particularly pointed out for 2006 was the duration of the hearings. And now, allow me, because you have received the 2007 advocacy report in writing and because I am sure that you have read it accurately, let me just say a few basic things. The report consists of three parts. The first part presents statistical data on the number of cases dealt with, 47 of them. Some specific cases are then presented. And part three is the form by which the advocate tries to facilitate the reporting of cases by which individuals and individuals address them. In the case of alleged violations of the prohibition of discrimination, the law lays down a common basis for determining the situation of women and creating equal opportunities and women in political, economic, social, educational and other areas of social life, but it can be seen in this report that it is not possible to precisely distinguish and it is not clear from the report how the part of the cases dealt with by the Advocate on the basis of the law on equal opportunities between women and men and those cases which have been dealt with under the law on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment. These are possible weaknesses that can be detected even in this report, even in the title, because when we applied the request to address this point in plenary session, it is necessary to clarify in particular, since the title of the report merely stated that this report is a proponent. It should therefore be reiterated that the Ombudsman also drew attention to the long-term handling of cases, particularly in cases which constitute a violation of racial or ethnic discrimination. These are actually the violations which Slovenia is obliged to consider as an international obligation and which requires us to have a specialised body to control the discrimination of this type. As we know, these two cases of alleged discrimination have not yet been experienced by epilogues. At the same time, we must also say that the call for a new advocate or advocate is under way. With regard to these cases detected in 2007, particular consideration should be given to the relationship between the inspection and the advocate, which can be seen from the specific reference to the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u107	Thank you, too. Mrs Potrata, you stay for the speaker, because we are moving on to a presentation on the positions of the groups of Members, and you are the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Let me mention, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, some of the comments that can be made on the Ombudsman's 2007 report. Although our parliamentary group has not taken the initiative to address this report in plenary session, it seems appropriate that we should address it primarily because we have for free drawn attention to the systematic inadequate establishment of the Institute of Gender Equality and equal, non-discriminatory treatment on the basis of all other personal circumstances. The Commission of the European Union has warned that the solution so far is inadequate, but it can be accepted as a search for good solutions not only in Slovenia, but also in other European Union Member States, because practice can only show whether individual institutions that are reintroduced are truly well placed or not. But given that we have already established a special institution before that, which is provided with a higher degree of independence - we are of course referring to an information officer - we thought in the Group of Social Democrats that it would be possible to arrange the institution of the advocate in the same way as this institution, which I was just talking about. This is what we have tried to achieve in the context of the consideration of the law on the principle of equal treatment both on the Commission for Petitions and on human rights and on equal opportunities that the amendment of the law has treated as an interested working body, as well as on the home labour body. I'm warning you, we haven't been able to fix this. In view of the role that an advocate should have, for example, that an advocate can really only say that he is sometimes in a vicious circle - an inspection, an advocate and a re-inspection and an inspector again, it is important to consider both the extent of competence and, in particular, the extent to which the Institute is personally, organisationally, financially and functionally independent. We do not give up on this and believe that a renewed warning from the Commission of the European Union can also be expected and that it will be necessary to arrange otherwise in law in the institution of defence. However, we believe that, of course, the strengthening of this institution should also be considered, since we are not convinced that only one official can provide a good and quick solution to the cases that have been filed, and that the role that the advocate should have, and for which I am particularly stressing, is also the responsibility of the National Assembly to ensure such solutions, which would also include the promotion role of non-discriminatory behaviour of both state institutions and local institutions, as well as in the private sector, of ensuring that these discriminatory practices will be minimised in the future. Unfortunately, this promotional and preventive role of advocate of equal opportunities has now been completely or almost completely lacking. Thank you. However, I think it is quite clear that we will support the recommendation proposed by the Commission for the adoption of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr Gulič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellows and fellows! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the report on the work of the advocate and, in fact, I will only stop at the report, not at all what the report brings at the substantive level. It appears that the matter in Slovenia is still very problematic precisely because of this formal existence of the substantive power that the advocate has equal opportunities. In the introductory explanations, the applicant shall continue to work with the Office for Equal Opportunities in accordance with the new arrangements. It is certainly positive that her situation has grown stronger, but she still does not have enough power. Although independent and independent, more than any opinion can actually be given. The report shows many things that could and should concern us in Slovenia. I therefore believe that the report is good, well written, transparent and clear. It is clear, however, that this network or sensors that detect this problem are very small or insensitive in Slovenia. This can be seen from the statistics and also from the case-by-case reports, where it is clear that, in fact, there must be a lot of serious or serious problems for people to respond to and find advocates and solutions. The review of individual cases also shows that we still have the most problems in Slovenia with regard to equality in work relations, access to goods and services, that family relationships are very problematic, which is worth remembering. It is said that problems are within families, those who are falling apart, so much more so that there are problems with education and elsewhere. The 2007 report on the work of the advocate in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be supported and taken into account, in particular, in the adoption of legislation, what the defender has been alerting us to throughout these years and is in fact slowly or poorly changing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u111	Thank you. Ms Marjetka Uhan will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello to everyone who's watching the session! We have a report on the work of the advocate for the past year under consideration. The Advocate for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men and the Principle of Equality shall be responsible within the Office for Equal Opportunities to deal with cases of alleged violations of discrimination. Its work includes both the detection of violations of the prohibition of discrimination and the provision of general information, advice and recommendations. It should be stressed that the advocate is independent and independent in her work, but it is true that she does not have the power to carry out investigations. Cases are dealt with on the basis of the data provided by the involved, those who are supposed to be victims of discrimination as evidence of alleged offenders. More than putting out the fire, it is important, in the view of New Slovenia, that people realize that discrimination is unacceptable, that people need to be educated, informed, raised so that such crimes do not occur. That is why it is of great importance and commendable work of the advocate dedicated to identifying discrimination and raising awareness of discrimination, its effects and, of course, the prevention of discrimination. Victims need to know that they can turn to them and receive advice on how to act, where to turn for help, and so on. Of the cases in question, the most violations related to gender discrimination are. In particular, this is expressed in the area of employment and employment relations. But we can conclude that these are not yet the only areas in which individuals or groups face discrimination. It is also necessary to know that perhaps some discrimination is hidden because victims do not hope to talk about it because they are afraid to lose, for example, their job, their apartment, so that they are even more at risk than ever. While still explaining threats to workers who would like to work for a small child, the employer threatens them with a booklet or is working overtime, they are no longer paid for it, even though the legislation is clear, as well as the Penal Code and so on. People still lack knowledge of the institution of advocates and also of the signs of discrimination itself. Sadly, many victims still face fear of what will happen if the action is reported, so they remain silent. It is true, however, that the abuse of this institution also occurs, that many know only the rights, but not the duty, that even in the cases under consideration, there has not always been a visible violation of discrimination. However, we must say in New Slovenia that any discrimination is unacceptable. An attack on human dignity cannot be tolerated. Such acts should not only be observed, dealt with, but also properly punished. It certainly helps to raise awareness of people by acting, and we hope that, as a result, it will also reduce acts of discrimination, so we will support the report in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we have carefully examined the report of the Advocate in all three parts. When understanding the report and the results of the work of the Advocate, it is necessary to take into account the warning in the introduction of the report that the Advocate does not have the power to carry out investigations, contrary to the inspectors. It should therefore address cases on the basis of data and information that are affected or involved in individual cases, which is certainly putting this institution in a position that it is often unable to establish the actual situation and not to give an opinion. It is commendable that the supporter has designed an appropriate form for the application of discrimination to assist those affected. In particular, we consider the important and commendable role of the advocate in offering legal advice, the recommendations made to the affected in relation to discrimination, which, after all, enabled the amendment to the law adopted last July. In our view, one of the essential tasks in the role of advocate is highlighted and made possible, this is its preventive role through counseling, how to prevent or stop an unacceptable act or action. It is worrying that the club is still half of the legislation on equal opportunities and provisions in labour law, i.e. the largest initiatives related to discrimination in relation to labour relations. It is true that, in 13 cases, a total of 47 cases, the view that there has been no discrimination is given, but it is certainly possible to assess the situation as bad. This should also take into account the fact that even of these thirteen cases, it is not possible to claim or rule out that there was no discrimination in seven cases. Especially on the fact that all cases certainly did not come into the hands or at the table to be handled by an advocate for such or other reasons. For us, there is certainly an unacceptable reason for fear that the application would cause the injured person to suffer even greater pressure or all the loss of his job and therefore he does not dare to file a report. This should not happen in a social and legal country as Slovenia is supposed to be. We hope that the last amendment to the Labour Relations Act, which has included a ban on psychological violence in the workplace during the prohibited acts, will make it easier to identify and eliminate such discriminatory acts. In the Republic of Slovenia, which is supposed to be an exemplary country, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, it is necessary to arrest and regulate as soon as possible the data collection system for vulnerable groups in society and to pay more attention to the more sustainable state and feeling of the increasingly numerous immigrants who are, in fact, economic migrants, and unfortunately in practice, are increasingly treated as consumer goods. However, it will be necessary to consider a more independent and independent advocate than the Institute in order to make the work of the advocate more effective. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the Advocate's report as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u115	Thank you. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 2 p.m. with questions from Members and Members of Parliament to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u116	Dear Members and honourable Members! We are moving on to a meeting of the assembly, which is to continue with the 1st item of the agenda - questions of Members and Members. Under this item, Mr Janez Janša, President of the Government, will answer four questions from members of the opposition and from the ruling coalition. Members shall have 3 minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government shall answer the question within a maximum of 5 minutes. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who has asked the question may request that a discussion be held on the response of the President of the Government, as decided by the State Assembly without discussion. The first question will be asked by Mr Happy Friend. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished ministers! I would like to ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: Why did the Government of the Republic of Slovenia actually change its relationship to Crassus in May and, somehow, I also have to stress, the protective response and almost all of Crassus classified within Nature 2000? Of course, this means in some way protecting against possessive building, but it causes a number of problems. And if we compare it to Italy, that would mean almost 70% more stringent criteria that we have taken than our neighbors have. This alone raises the question whether all investors working there will have to apply for an integrated environmental impact assessment and what the Government will have to do with others who ask for restrictive interventions in space. One such company is the state-owned company Elektro Primorska, which has already applied for wind power plants, and the question of what will happen to the gas pipeline in itself. We know that the Italian side has already confirmed the so-called secondary construction of the gas pipeline, as well as the pipeline, which is supposed to follow the strategic point, crosses the Primorska and also goes through most of Primorska. Therefore, I ask the distinguished President of the Government: What will the Government do when it is put before the facts or in some cases it is already, and will we also violate here the provisions that we have set ourselves as a critical point for respecting the protection of the country? Natura 2000 is an act, and without the consent of the municipalities, an act has been adopted, which, by extension, was also kind of burned in the government. I wonder: Why did this law on local self-government somehow get out of hand? There are few mayors who have been ill-willed to have the Government, I stress, well-intentioned, I believe, protective of what is happening, we know that possessive purchases are also taking place by foreigners in Crassus, but somehow this should be accepted in a more transparent and coordinated manner also in the interest of all municipalities. Thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The government did not do this because it was suggested in the question, so it did not extend the Natura 2000 area to the whole of Crassus. In the area of Kras is the only protected area declared by the State, Skocjanska Cave Regional Park. If other areas are covered, they are protected by municipal decrees. Something else has happened. In June 2007, the European Commission received a reminder of its failure to comply with certain obligations under the European Birds Protection Directive. The government then indicated in response to this reminder sent to the European Commission in August 2000 that some areas would be complemented. This was followed by a meeting with the mayors, a real communication with the local communities, two meetings on August 1st and also August 16th 2007, is said even before the formal response was made in Brussels. And on the basis of this promise that we will solve this problem of non-compliance with the Birds Directive, there have also been no frozen funds from the European funds used in this area. In the absence of this response, these funds would, of course, be frozen and the financing of certain projects would be disabled. In line with the European Commission's promise, a professional proposal that has not yet been adopted when it is prepared will be forwarded to the municipalities and only on this basis will a definitive solution be drawn up. When it comes to assessing the effects or adverse effects of interventions on the premises, it is simply that in these areas, where for various reasons, in this case, due to the implementation of this Directive of the European Union on birds, we can expect a harmful impact on such or other interventions, we need a study to determine whether a certain extent constitutes such an impact or not. Only on the basis of such a study can it then be decided, which of course does not mean that all interventions to space are prohibited. Those interventions are prohibited, which would have a profoundly harmful effect. Implementation or respect, in this case not Nature 2000, but these European Directives on the protection of certain animal species, in this case birds, do not require the prohibition of construction or any other infrastructure interventions, but require more careful treatment of our premises, which is first in our interest and only then is this a matter of the European Directive. With regard to the foundation or these disputed cases, which you probably think of in the second part of the question, this is not about national jurisdiction, but rather about municipal jurisdiction. In this particular case, the spatial acts of the congregation of Sežana, which are old and should be amended, are a problem. This was also the advice of the Ministry of the Environment and the premises of this municipality. The municipality did not proceed with the preparation of the new act, but demanded the addition of the old one. As far as I know, this does not meet the conditions, this will be rejected, so that there will be no realisation of this fear here, how the whole of Crassus will build up and so on. It is not some contradiction in these practices, but an attempt to continue with development, but also to protect the environment, which is of interest everywhere, not only in Crassus.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u120	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr President! If I have correctly understood the President of the Government, it will not be necessary for each individual construction to be requested by the investor for an integrated assessment. And that is, of course, the question that is of interest to the Primorje and Primorce. And in a different context, I asked that. Look, the government promises a lot in these protected areas to the people who live there. Life within a protected area is often disturbed and it is more difficult to decide or obtain building permits, intervene into the space itself, even the basket itself or already the cutting of trees is in fact limited to some inspections, and the government here has promised and promises some compensation, even financial, but when it comes to paying it, it is not nearly as promised. And Primorka and Primorce are interested, because I appreciate everyone who decides to solve their housing problem individually, whether because the government has respected an order, you give this right order, I see in the Official Journal this as the extension of Nature 2000, of course you claim that life here will be normal. I'd like to make it clear, though. And we didn't say anything about the gas pipeline. It is the gas pipeline that will dramatically reach into space and also wind power plants, which are already expressed with a clear purpose to build here, that have their consents. And these are state-owned companies that have obtained these consents within the current Natura 2000. I'd like to ask the Prime Minister, if he'll answer me as well. I also announced this in the written part of the question. The fact is that some violations can already be proven.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u123	If there are infringements, then they must be reported, proved and sanctioned. The fact that an area is within the scope or map of Nature 2000 does not mean that there are no interventions to space. This only means that there is a need to respect stricter criteria. The Natura 2000 area, as it is now, has been set out in the previous mandate. Whether it is too large or too small, there are very different opinions here both between the population and the profession. This novelty or addition that we are now talking about has not happened. It is a matter of drawing up an expert proposal which will go to the debate and to the opinion of the municipalities, and not only on this basis, whether and with what part of Crassa this Natura 2000 area will be completed or not. Nothing's been done here. Even when it comes to housing, the basic problem here is not Natura 2000 or the EU Birds Directive, here is the basic problem of spatial planning. In this particular case, it is the spatial acts of the congregation of Sežana, which are old, from the time of Yugoslavia, as I read in this material and which need to be supplemented or adopted. Accordingly, the issue of rounding up settlements, building opportunities and meeting the criteria will also be resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr Školč will next raise the question of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister! I have written down in the question's forecast that I will ask you how you assess the state of the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia, given that for the first time in history we are facing a general court sentence, that the prosecution is carrying out activities that the majority of the legal profession puts on the question that the representatives of the executive branch of the authorities are commenting on the decisions of the judges and, lastly, that it is here in the National Assembly by your party's members that we are hearing calls for the arrest of Members, and from the President of the National Assembly that it is necessary to carry out the will of the people instead of the courts. The concept of the rule of law implies that all branches of government, and above all enforcement, understand the law as one that protects the rights of all those who are placed under the same laws as the law that enforces, and I will tell the Parliament and other institutions that they are "vispecting" each other, so that, I will say, they respect the division of power. In this era of yours, after the last elections, we are witnessing that for the various institutions of the system envisaged by the Constitution, you do not find the right words every time you are set up by a mirror. So you had the right pursuit against the Ombudsman when he demanded that certain things be settled. So you threw into the basket of the Court of Auditors' decisions when various violations were detected for spending money. You have thus declared practically an unworthy person who protects access to information of a public nature. And so you are working to end the entire mandate of the anti-corruption commission, because every time there is a principled opinion, it turns out that you have a personal account with the chairman of this commission, but you do not take the decisions that require action. This, of course, leads to the erosion of the rule of law and that people do not trust in the system [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] What do you think about all of this and what will you do about those people on your team who contribute greatly to the erosion of the understanding of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u127	Thank you so much for asking. First, let me say that I have no personal accounts with anyone, especially those listed here. However, I fear that a Member who asks this has had a personal account with me for twenty years because he always asks questions at a personal level. As far as the sentence is concerned, it is simply a fact that the salaries of judges in Slovenia have never been as high as they are today, and that judges in Slovenia have never struck. So they strike the moment they have the highest salary in history. Whether they're tall enough or not, I don't know, but I know they've been lower so far, and they've never struck before. Even in Slovenia, there have never been as many judges as there are today, despite the fact that we have had 2 million inhabitants for a long time. But I'm not getting into it either. However, I strongly object to the notion that the completed procedures of any branch of authority should not be commented on. The fact that it is not possible to comment on legal proceedings that are completed, which cannot be reversed when the opinion of the decision-maker is no longer affected, is the debate that we completed, conducted and concluded in Slovenia 20 years ago. At that time it was also said that the judgment of the courts should not be commented on, although the proceedings were disputed, some of the same people who today claimed it also at the time and were completely overrun by the profession. One is to comment on the procedure when it is still under way, when it is not known what the result will be when people have to decide, and this does not apply only to the judiciary, whether it is for the court or only for the court, but also for the prosecution. On the same issue, when protesting against the so-called comment or involvement in the work of the courts or the judges, the Member commented on the work of the prosecutions, the proceedings still under way. This particular case, which is now on the table, is such that the proceedings in its contents are not yet concluded, and the prosecution is leading it. And every day, we can read the heavy pressure on the prosecution and the police that's running these procedures with the obvious purpose of getting scared and ending it, even though it doesn't know how it's going to end. However, should not comment on the procedure that has been completed, concluded and which was essentially the matter of the current decision. This is the case when the investigating judge decided whether or not to conduct a house investigation. The judge has made a decision, and he has made a negative decision. This is not a complaint, this case is irreparable. Even if someone made a different decision today, it is impossible to make a house inquiry ten days ago, and that money was already taken by acts and so on - if it existed. Well, the thing was done and it can't be commented on, which is the first time I've heard. I think it's a disputed procedure, and I'll always say it. The fact that someone is deciding in a procedural case about someone he used to work with at work, or in the same department, or in a group, or on a committee, is at issue with me. That's what I'm worried about, and I'll always say it. Also, the fact that someone who's still a state's attorney is sitting somewhere with a suspect if he's going to become a lawyer in two days is in dispute with me. I'm not a judge, and I can't judge whether it's criminal or not, but it's controversial. And I will never agree to the thesis that tried to establish itself in the previous term, and it was pronounced by the previous Attorney General when she said that "every big pig is not a crime yet". Yeah, what's a crime if it's not "a big pig"? Is it just small then? So society protects citizens from "big pigs" by persecuting them. There's no such division. These divisions are only when they are trying to protect some political friends.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u128	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Of course, the Prime Minister did not surprise me, even myself, he will probably recall commenting on the outstanding proceedings before the military court in 1988. There is no problem from this point of view. The problem is that a legal system has been built and that any comment may not only be a comment, but it may also be an overriding of powers. You probably know one of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which has been defined in similar cases where prosecutors, state officials, have not been able to comment on the decisions of the judicial authorities, whether or not it has been the case with any minister. Let me remind you, for example, on a very well-known case, this "case" of Libemont v. France, where in a situation similar to that of Mr Mate, the European Court of Human Rights has decided that article 6 of the Convention on Human Rights has been violated. I hope you know these things, and I hope you will understand that Mate has reached into a convention that is equally valid and that protects people from the political power of the authorities. What is the problem between us, if you want it, is that you understand the power as absolute, that you understand your victory, relatively speaking, in the elections as an excuse to interfere in these branches of power. I ask you: What are you going to do - in terms of, say, this case before the European Court of Justice - with Mr Matthew?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u131	I don't know if this case is now well summarized, but after what's been heard, it has nothing to do with it. The minister here commented on a procedure that had been completed. It could not have affected the outcome of this procedure because it was completed irreparably. And just as you can tell your opinion of someone, so can I. It would be a big problem for the Minister to comment on a procedure that is ongoing and not yet concluded, because that would be pressure on those who decide. However, if we comment on a matter that is definitively or legally concluded, we cannot change things back and that is perfectly clear. If you were so principled and strict in this, then you should apply all the same criteria when it comes to commenting on the prosecution's proceedings. Here is the whole opposition, the whole media corps and part of the so-called profession declared some prosecution and police proceedings for disputes, some said even illegal, some said even unconstitutional. Yes, but who can judge this in this country? Who can judge that? Not someone who owns this right. Especially since this will prove to be the case, it will eventually be decided by the court and it will be seen whether these procedures were good or not. It will also be seen, likely, whether someone here made a mistake or not. But we don't have these organs to protect criminals. We have these organs to prosecute criminals and to protect citizens and citizens. Where are the rights of those who were allegedly robbed or injured here? And that's something you forget completely. A lot of noise, a lot of civilian initiatives, all because someone who was still a prosecutor and meeting with a suspect was supposed to be handcuffed. That's the main problem now. What about the very reason why this happened? Is it possible, or is it actually possible, that we have people working in the prosecution, in the court, representing someone or judging someone or suing them, and the next day they represent him? We have these cases, we have Judge Šubica, who forgot to write Elan's judgment, and he's a lawyer today. We have an attorney from the railroad who had 160 unsolved files in his closet and is now a lawyer. We have Mr Penk, who was the state's attorney, and he's a lawyer today. He's doing the same thing he used to do, just the question of if on the other hand.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr. Scots, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u133	Mr. President, respectable colleagues, colleagues! If you would like to make us happy with any extraordinary meeting, I propose that this meeting also include a debate on this answer. It will be very important and very interesting. That is exactly what the President of the Government was talking about in the second part. But who is the criminal, Mr. Janša, is not your decision as you say here, but the court. And what the Convention on Human Rights and our Constitution guarantee is that everyone has the right to a fair trial. And if the President of the Government and the ministers justify the surface procedures of the authorities that give them principles by hunting criminals, then they don't understand what they're trying to say. I repeat who is a criminal, does not decide Mr Pukšič, does not decide Mr Tukjat, who understands the people, and does not decide you and Mate. And this is the judgment of which I speak, and I will also give it unto you with joy: I hope that you shall read it, is in more copies, and I hope that you will draw from it the consequence. This is a complete misunderstanding of the concept of human rights. Without that, it is difficult for me to imagine that we can talk democratically and reasonably about other things.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr Školč's proposal to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 11 July 2008, in the framework of the votes. Now the question to the Prime Minister will be posed by the Magi. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister and Ministers, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! When you assessed macroeconomic indicators at the time of the rebalancing, by which we have made great progress, you confirmed [[.... ……]] : "Never so far has Slovenia, in an equally long period of time, recorded even about such favourable results. It is important, however, that we can also expect growth rates in the coming years that will be at least twice as high as the average of the European Union and the European Monetary Union." Although all Slovenian macro-economists are not as optimistic as your predictions. At the presentation of the European Central Bank's annual report, Jean-Claude Trichet also announced that inflation would not be settled until next year. Therefore, much more satisfaction can be found in the publication Slovenia today, printed in 731,000 copies and sent to Slovenian households. And that's where you wrote that we want to be among the most developed European countries. [[.... ……]] "that we will be able to provide all the inhabitants of Slovenia with a decent life and prosperity," this is on page 2. Then on page 4, "Wishes for a better life grow faster than wages. Even though we can afford it more than three or ten years ago, we like to say that we are living worse and worse. Is that true or is it just an incentive for us to be even better?" Well, this rhetorical question is seen by those who don't have coats in their eyes, otherwise probably like the coalition. However, individuals and groups are referred to the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. These are primarily those who do not see a solution from their distress or who cannot understand measures that do not improve their condition but make them worse. Let me give an example of a citizen who, due to the 5-euro monthly reconciliation of the pension, exceeded the eligibility rate for a higher annual allowance. The alignment will bring EUR 60 throughout the year and the difference between the higher and lower allowances will be € 139. That is why, Mr President, I ask you: The government's assessment of the situation in this special publication and the interpretation of statistics convince us that people should never have done as well as they do now. Most people argue in public opinion polls, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] To live worse. [[...]] How do you explain this obvious difference? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u137	Thank you for asking. But given that I could not answer the latest implementation of the previous questioner, Mr Školč, let me say that I have never had problems with understanding democracy, the separation of powers and not with the consequences. I have never been able to choose a position at a time when Mr Školč was in prison. And as far as Mrs. Potter's question is concerned. I am grateful to her for this question because many of the untruths have been told about these brochures issued by the Government or issued by the Government's development service at a time when we were implementing reforms, including through the participation of all those involved in the Partnership for Development, including the Social Democrats. Here's a brochure that we first issued with your president's address, too. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] and in this brochure, the Government has announced which reforms it will make, and has also promised to communicate at the end of this period to citizens and citizens what will be the result of this reform package. [[...]] Then were also published brochures: Entrepreneurship Slovenia, Friendly and Effective Public Administration, How to reduce unemployment, How to secure age and at the end of the last, where we just summarized these results. The problems you have with these results are that everything is true and on this brochure these comments were that there are no good colors, that came out at the wrong time, and there was no comment that any of these data would not be kept. This is not an assessment of the situation, this is a report on the reform package, and neither of these data has been said not to be true. Your problem is that it's all true, and your problem is also that he's your president, and that's what he's going to admit. Mr Pahor said at the last meeting of the Partnership for Development, when we were also working on a balance sheet of these measures: "For the sake of the Partnership for Development, Slovenia, with these changes that have been made in recent years, has achieved good success, high economic growth, the reduction of unemployment" and so on. It's just a fact. As far as public research is concerned, these are different. You asked me how I comment on public opinion research. I can't do all of them because I don't know what you mean. I've got two here. One is certainly most relevant, this is the Eurobarometer for last year and Eurobarometer notes that 87% of Slovenians are satisfied with their lives. The Eurobarometer published publicly for all countries. If you believe the Politbarometer, Mr Toša, it is noted in the latest survey or in the latest publication of the Politbarometer from June this year, it is stated last month that the satisfaction of people with material conditions has not yet been so high. Over 60%. These are the two polls I have that I can give you. I believe that there is a different information on an online survey or in a newspaper, and I also believe that someone who, with these measures, as you mentioned in particular, could have fallen into a worse situation with some measure where censorship is determined, but this has always happened. Also in previous mandates and future mandates, especially when censorship is set for social transfers, and whenever changes occur, someone will be on the verge of being particularly assisted by measures to be taken specifically, and that is what this Government has always done. Also for this category that you were referring to. However, this cannot be generalized and then reinforced by public research. The Eurobarometer and the Politbarometer of what you said do not confirm.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u138	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not going to comment on how you abused part of the answer to another question. And I'm not going to argue with you about your attitude towards the media either, because you offered me first printed media. Well, public television, of course, thinks about things and reports differently. But the Guardian of Human Rights warns against rising poverty. Experts point to the most endangered groups. NGOs also see that poverty is more widespread. For example, the amount of food distributed, hygiene supplies and clothing distributed by NGOs is on the rise. In mid-May this year, a survey showed that inflation and inflation had affected 72% and a few others. 44.4% of people think they live worse, that their standard has fallen and only 13.4% that the standard is better. According to the July poll, your estimate that the number of poor is dropping dramatically, 4.5% of people polled, and that the poor are only for the sample, I think 5%. 54, almost 55% believe that the poor among us are increasing. They're not individual cases. More and more people are wondering how to last until the end of the month and how to stay. That is why it seems to me that the measures you have taken this year in the form of various sweets, as we told them in the opposition, in amending the legislation, confirm that what you are saying about 15% poverty reduction, I do not know how good the results are, but not everything is as accurate as you guarantee. Eurobarometer and other statistics - the poverty threshold for 2005 is the latest official data; and also according to those data we are [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u140	Thank you. Before I give my word, let me say hello to the guests; the parliamentary delegation of our friendly country of Montenegro, a nice greeting in Parliament! [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] Mr President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u141	The Eurobarometer survey I quoted was from the autumn of last year and the data have been from that time. You can check that out. Unfortunately, I can't verify any of the polls that you quoted, because you didn't tell anyone when it was done or who was doing it. For me, it's someone who says, I have a survey where it says this and that. Please indicate the source and the institution that did this and the other data, so that on this basis, of course, things can then be compared. But that's not the point. I see that the essence of this debate, which you have opened up, is now being tried by the biggest opposition party that has actively participated in this mandate, and we have acknowledged this, in the Development Partnership, now denies the results that we have achieved together. Several ten key laws have been harmonised within the Development Partnership. On this basis, we have taken some reform steps and these laws have been adopted here with great agreement and have produced results. If you now say that these results are poor, then this is also the fruit of your work. I think that they were not bad, and that we can all be happy that at least one part of this mandate, based on the offer that a government has made to the opposition for the first time in history, together we have created key reform steps. This is the first time I've encountered a situation where someone is also criticizing their own successes and trying to destroy them.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u142	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u143	Thank you. On the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a discussion on the response of the President of the Government. If there is enough time to discuss the laws for which the referendum has shown the results of which it has demonstrated and is more valuable than the public research to which the drafters referred, then in this discussion of the answer, it will be sufficient to give all or at least a large majority of them to whom we can refer when we show the social picture and the economic picture of the good part of the Slovenian population. Two thirds of the employees are under gross average income. We're facing a group of poor employees. In particular, it is clear which groups are particularly at risk and would like to reflect on all of this, but until then the Government could prepare a report on how successful it has been with all the measures it has taken under the amended legislation in this first half of this year. It is simply a consistent practice, according to which half are told and half are silenced. In the brochure you quoted - and you reminded me how the president of the party I belong to discussed it. He said exactly what I was thinking. Some achievements are recorded in the brochure, but unfortunately problems are lacking in the brochure. And it is worth warning you on behalf of those who live with us in this country and who cannot claim for themselves to live in the golden age. I also believe that there are many of them, when they go through a garbage disposal, in the mind of a statement that has so polarized the Slovenian public. I walk the streets, too, and I don't see nothing in the dumpsters. That's all that is. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , which would suggest a discussion in response to the question, because the low unemployment data can also indicate that this does not apply to all groups of the population. [[...]] When it is possible to talk about the fact that in Slovenia we have a very safe flexibility, that we are on the European average not to be lagging behind, but we are lagging behind those forms that would ensure better compatibility of family and professional life. That it's over 70% - that they're in first place after work for a certain time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u144	Thank you. On the proposal by Member of Parliament to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government to her parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 11 July 2008, in the framework of the vote. Mr Jože Tanko will put the last question to the Prime Minister of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The activity of authorities fighting economic crime and corruption has recently been greatly strengthened. The State Prosecutor's Office and the Criminal Police carried out extensive investigations of some construction companies months ago and several directors were detained and criminal proceedings have already been instituted against some. Many well-known directors, some politicians and some media have not disturbed the suspicions of crimes that have been made, but the process of deprivation of liberty and there have been many statements, even demands that these suspects should be treated differently from all others, by deliberately exerting media pressure on law enforcement authorities and by imposing a legally unsustainable inequality before the law. An investigation was carried out days ago, pointing to an additional problem in the fight against economic crime and corruption. The state prosecutor, a member of the special prosecutor's team to combat organised crime, Boštjan Penko, met with one of the suspects in the investigations of this special prosecutor's group, Ivan Zidar. Following Penk's statement, he and Zidar agreed to represent in criminal proceedings when he would be employed in one of the lawyers' offices within a few days. This statement went very unnoticed by the Slovenian public and also by politics. She was consciously despised. When dealing with illegality at concentrations of enterprises at the last extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, a large part of the opposition verbally condemned these illegal acts of transition, but the conclusions imposed on the Government and other authorities by decisive measures were not supported, which shows that they do not have serious intentions in combating economic crime and corruption. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: How do you assess the political and media pressures on the work of the police and the State Prosecutor's Office regarding investigations into the suspicions of economic crime and corruption this year? I wonder: Does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia consider drafting legislation that would prevent the direct passage of judges and prosecutors between lawyers, such as through a competitive clause, as already regulated in some other cases or in some other areas? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u147	Thank you for asking. But first of all, there will be no shadow of doubt on these brochures. Again, this brochure, the honourable Member, was sent to all households in 2006 and announced reforms. This brochure was sent to Slovenian households two years later when this package was completed. We have implemented it together in the framework of the Development Partnership, where we have also aligned most of the laws with you. And from this point of view, I don't see anything at all controversial about public information. This first brochure has no record of what the government will do with inflation in this reform package, because it was not a problem at the time, so inflation is not in the report either, because it was not a reform measure. So I hope this misunderstanding is over now. With regard to the question of fellow Member Tank, let me refer to the reply I have already given and reiterate that the principle of the separation of powers, which is a constitutional principle in Slovenia, must be respected. That the judicial branch does not only an extremely important work in society, but ensures that the social balance can only be ensured if the society knows what is right and what is wrong and if, in the end, someone who considers it impartially in the event of disputes. This is an extremely responsible job. Those who perform it must be aware that they are doing some extraordinary work, that it is also their responsibility and that these responsibilities and status cannot be reduced to some euro. As has already been said, the salaries of the judiciary in Slovenia are certainly not ideal, nor are they ideal in other categories. We have now succeeded with this reform of the wage system in the public sector to make things about transparency and fairness, or this balance will be established. As a result, the exposure of material conditions to work in the judiciary is, in my opinion, unjustifiable, particularly at this time. The separation of powers to which some refer, in my view, is also a very important principle when it comes to assessing this specific behaviour of the former prosecutor you are talking about. This principle of separation, in my opinion, also requires that those who perform the function of investigation and prosecution at the end of the trial also take account of this separation from those who are being treated. In this case, it wasn't. And there is also a gray fox that has been pointed out by the Committee of the National Assembly of Internal Policy the day before he ordered the Government to come up with a proposal to amend legislation introducing a competitive clause that exists in police officers who cannot work in detective agencies after the end of their police career and in many other professions. But here, as has already been said, we have the case of Judge Šubice, who waited eight months to run out of time, and he did not write a judgment in Elan's case, and then he went quietly among the lawyers, the next day or immediately, without problems. We have the case of the prosecutor, where they discovered, I said 160 earlier, that this internal investigation had shown a few hundred cases put in the closet, mainly in the area of economic crime, which had become obsolete at that time, which after this was discovered, became a peaceful lawyer and represented those who, or could represent those who, the next day, there was no prohibition, whose writings he had previously set up in the closet and was well planted in this case. We now have this case of a state's attorney who started representing a future client at a time when he was not yet a lawyer. And that's not an issue. But the problem is, it was a hindrance. We really need to ask ourselves how we understand what is right and what is wrong and what the attributes of the rule of law are.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u148	Thank you. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with agenda item 16.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u149	Dear Members and Members! We continue with the interruption of the agenda or the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Majda Shirca has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Here you go, please. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u150	It is true, Madam President, that we continue in a very trifling or so-called cut-off presence. I see that some momentum has to be taken after the answers we have been given. To continue with the presentation of the parliamentary positions. In the Group of Members, we are really very excited about the fact that the coalition, I will say, allows us to also, at the plenary session, not just on the committee, consider the report of the proponent or advocate, and let me stress that such benevolence is very rare. Of course, it can only conclude that this report is not particularly painful and that this open door has also been given to the meeting of the National Assembly itself, where, as we see, there is no presence. I would be happy, for example, personally to be heard in order to consider the report on the implementation of the resolution on the national programme for culture, on which we voted last week on the home committee, and it was rejected. However, I would be pleased to see that, in fact, this report directly interprets, mixes and discredits the Minister of Culture in the implementation of the national programme on culture, but let us leave, the Minister is interpreting himself when he advocates to the last breath the incompetent officials and his staff in the field of film. As for the work of the advocate for 2007 - let me first say that this report is very important to us and is some indicator of the symptoms of our society. Societies where discrimination is present may not be precisely in an extenuating situation, but certainly in a subtle and very worrying way. And it's just out of the way that, if I say so, Slovenes and Slovenes, it's important that someone discovers or alerts to those acts that are suppressed by walls, offices, barracks, bars, religious buildings and homes. In the light of this, I see an advocate or advocate as some kind of social therapist who has this advantage so that he can speak clearly and aloud about alleged and proven violations through his opinions, of course. And this is more than a psychologist, a theologian, a short-term confessor, a psychiatric office or a social service can do, because it not only affects the subjective problems of individuals or individuals, but puts these problems into the context of society's legal rules. And with the advocate or advocate, the key issue that has been raised in the past, as well as in today's presentation of the views of other parliamentary groups, remains open - that is, what its independence is. Independence, of course, means that the Authority's permanent capacity to act in all cases, as defined in Article 13 of the Racial Directive in this case, in accordance with its powers without any external intervention or interference. But the key problem with the advocate is that she's a supporter of the Equal Opportunities Office, so she's a government employee. And even though she's still so independent - and that's actually her independence and good work we've detected - but even though she's so independent she remains open to certain direct or indirect influences on her advocate, she's, I'll say, the Secretary-General of the Government, her formal boss. In fact, the Equal Opportunities Office depends on the openness or closure of the general sector, which has recently been confirmed also in the light of staffing at the office. We do not know why the Director of the Office, the current Director of the Office, has resigned, but we can conclude - perhaps also because this service has been staffed and despite the fact that the Office worked well, especially during the Presidency of the European Union, where it has actually achieved ardent success. And when we talk about the independence of the advocate, it is also important to ask ourselves this. For example: how should the advocate act in the light of a position that is not entirely independent, in the event that the subject of a defence investigation is, for example, the conduct of the minister or the government itself? I think this is not just a hypothetical situation, not at all, but a completely realistic one, so to speak, in the case of the Strojan family, this problem was also a problem in the case of harassment in the Slovenian Army, where this problem could also have been implied. In many cases, those addressed by the advocate may be under the direct influence of the political guidelines and the direction of the government or ministers, and since the government we have, always a political body, of course, is opening an additional "link" to political parties. In this case, and in this context, I am talking about the Institute itself and the decision voted on by the Commission that this institution should be considered differently. For the advocate also has a relatively weak opportunity to obtain data. In many cases, it depends on the structures it controls and on the state administration itself. And in this light, the conclusions of the advocate may be very subjective, possibly depending on the breadth or awareness or sensibility of it and its capacity. In fact, the current role of advocate is understood mainly as, I said earlier, a therapeutic, moderate, awareness-raising activity. Counselor's a literal defense. Protection against any discrimination based on personal circumstances. And the report also raises questions about what only one person who does not have a professional support service can do, because we know that in the office, they have been very disfigured and unable to obtain new jobs or new assistance, which would also be invaluable in this context. Let's say that one person can take quality and up-to-date action - for example, get sick, is on maternity leave and so on, the work stops. I just want to point out that advocacy is too hybrid and too disabled. Of course, it is important that he advises victims or alleged victims to provide legal assistance to remind them that he is at the same time an inspector, but at the same time he does not have this status, which would offer it width such as, say, width as he has the status of an authorising officer on his own - and we have actually appealed to this status when we thought of that type of advocacy as required by the directive or European regulation. At the same time, we do not underestimate this possibility of giving advice, giving opinions, raising awareness, giving legal advice and so on. But, as we say, this independence is questionable as it is today, and here we should be more benevolent, as well as more than we were the last time we changed the law, when it should somehow be more settled or at least in a way that Europe would not read it anymore. In short, I understand that the Government is pleased to commend itself: yes, we have this institution, we follow the recommendations of the European Union or its orders, but at the same time we do not have such an order as it really should be and as it should be in the European Union. Once we received a warning, and, as it is said, we made up for something, but we only made up for it. It is very similar, as in the case, for example, when it is said that we have a law on the registration of same-sex partnerships, which is not important. I myself, in the Zares Group, would not go into the individual case referred to by the advocate. What I can stress is this: it is important that the most discrimination is due to sex and in the field of employment. I can tell you that it's also scary if a person is being punished today because he's expecting a child, or because he's hoping to talk, or because he's working in a union. And I can only say that it is painful if the same-sex-oriented is treated differently from the others. And I can also say how many of those cases that the advocate will never deal with and never consider because people are afraid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Bogomir Zammernik has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Although some colleagues and colleagues have announced their support for this report on the work of the Advocate, it is important to say that the National Assembly is not the one to support or reject this report that is before us. However, we will be pleased to support the recommendation, which we have also supported at the Commission's own petitions meeting and for human rights and equal opportunities to examine the possibility of change, different legal arrangements for the position of counsel or advocate, with a view to improving the situation. There have been some flat-rate estimates that there are many things in the report on the work of the advocate that are wrong in Slovenia, which should be of concern to us. However, with very flat-rate assessments, we may be making the wrong impression. A different treatment of same-sex partners was mentioned just before. But in particular this case is described in this report as such that only behavior was inappropriate. And regardless of whether these two partners would be same-sex or if it were a pair of male-female, they were the owners of the place who decided that this was not appropriate and then acted accordingly. And this action would be the same, regardless of whether, as I said, a couple of men and women would do it. And I don't want to banalize things, but there are also cases in this report that there were inappropriately treated men who had to pay their entrance fees, and women didn't have to. And it is inappropriate that a package for a mobile subscriber for a particular age group is treated differently than for another. It is probably right that we are also dealing with such cases, but I think that we should focus on what has been said here because of this booth - that it is unacceptable for some employers to impose different conditions on pregnant women, nursing mothers or fathers. This morning, we started discussing the Law on Mental Health. The secretary gave some scary information. That there are over 100,000 people in Slovenia with mental health problems, that this is some potential, if I make an ugly statement, for these 600 suicides, as they happen a year, and any step in the direction, even if through the work of the advocate, we can at least mitigate it, we will support it in our parliamentary group. Therefore, as we say, we will also support the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the report. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u154	Thank you very much. I think that the situation in this area needs to be seen in the full spectrum of changing and increasingly modern societies. Thus, even when we discussed this report on the Commission, we have faced the fact that the situation in recent years in general, but also in Slovenia, has changed significantly and that we are no longer talking about those matters that we have talked about in the field of equal opportunities or unequal opportunities a few years or a few years ago. A number of things have been done in this recent period through good practice, including through changes in legislation, and through the institute on which we have a report on the table today, so I think that this is also one of those areas where things are going in a positive direction. It is normal, however, that there will never be a level playing field. After all, the role of a woman, a mother in society, is unique and, as such, will remain in the future. No one can replace this role. From this, certain specificities in these relations will always exist and, as such, society must also consider and respond appropriately to them. I personally think that, in fact, in recent years, quite a few good steps have been taken in this direction and that our society, our country, responds adequately to these changes. However, it is also true that where we have the opportunity to make certain exceptions to this, we also convince through legislative procedures that we will take advantage of these options and that we will use them in an appropriate way or accept them. It's not good that we're just going to declare ourselves in favor of these things at some level. It is also necessary to act and act, which means as long as we are in a position to make decisions and to make decisions in this direction, that we also serve them and that we are creating examples of good practice through this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like to point out that I am very pleased that this report has been discussed by the proponents at the meeting of the National Assembly and that the entire National Assembly can also be made more aware of this report. I think that the report is positive from this point of view, allowing for some general insight into the problem of the report, or the advocate, and is also very useful in this respect in some way of teaching or raising public awareness. In fact, this report also shows that, in order to be able to count, at least I see it this way, the position and role of the advocate as a transitional position and role and that there is some way of showing the need to place the advocate slightly more appropriately in a system which I think is well referred to as the 159th Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the Ombudsman and then allows for the possibility of establishing a special guardian for particular areas. Of course, I also come from this fact that the advocate we have today is not entirely independent and independent, in fact, the official or Minister Virant would say a public servant and therefore, of course, cannot consistently carry out his position and his role as an independent and independent factor in this area. I would therefore seek a solution in this regard, too, that gender discrimination is in fact just one of the discriminations that often manifests itself in relation to other forms of discrimination, and it would probably suggest that we seek a solution in this direction in order to reach a guardian, guardian or advocate, advocates who would seek protection in the field and fight against all kinds of discrimination, which is also, in some ways, a standard already established in other countries and in Europe or in the Member States of the European Union in a broader sense. I would therefore advocate that the National Assembly also support the Commission's proposal for petitions and equal opportunities and human rights and that we impose on the Government to consider in this direction how to actually propose an appropriate amendment to the relevant legislation in order to reach such an independent and independent body in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u158	Thank you. I must say that understanding the concept of equality and equal treatment of equal opportunities is still a bit blurry for a lot of people, because when we talk about equality, of course we cannot talk about it unless we consider that there is a difference. For the same thing is shown in the recognition of diversity. And when we talk about equality in different personal circumstances and when we talk about equal treatment, we always come to mind again some very graphic comparison of the English university professor who said this in such a visual way: We can talk about the same options, just imagine the situation when before the start line on one side stood - because you will see that it is imaginary - a whale, an elephant, an ant, on the other hand it would be a tree and all of you would be placed before the same task - climbing a tree. We cannot talk about equal opportunities if, of course, we are placed at the heart of such a situation that we cannot enforce our equality or our differences. Do you understand me? How about a whale with a tree? Not to talk about everything else. It's simply that no one denies it and I would be the worst of it if someone told me that because I'm looking for equal treatment, for equality before the law, that I want to hide my sex. No, but that a person is happy to be able to enforce this personal situation and not feel different because of this situation. However, I must say that in our country, despite very good legislation, it is possible to observe different forms of distinction, at least if we look at things from different angles, we find it difficult to accept that sex would be the personal circumstance that would make the difference in payment. But look, all the statistical research, this is data from the Bureau of Statistics, proves that for 22 and something else, almost 23% of the pay gap between highly educated women and highly educated men. How this difference now occurs - let us now leave aside that if both professors are in high school, we should formally have the same payment, but can in various other ways cause the difference in payment. And there are not few cases where there is a special system of inability to progress, the inability to add a stimulating or moving work for greater efficiency or for anything else a woman depriving herself. She is an advocate, look at this case, especially finding that in a private company, women were generally getting worse than men. So cover up the mechanisms, how to create a difference that is not justified in marriage but is justified in some personal circumstances, exist. In particular, I would like to draw attention to those cases that Majda Shirtz also spoke about. This is a field of vision and an invisible field, and I am convinced that discriminatory treatment is more important than what is perceived. For it is a matter of stopping before reporting a matter, not only because of the fear that has been mentioned so many times, but also because I do not see the possibility of being helped. And that is why I think the institution of an advocate or advocate is so important and important to the publication of successful cases. I remember, let's say, how successful it was when it was possible to talk about women who reported harassment in the workplace being successful in their application and being the director of the healthcare home, - this is a matter of concern - being also sanctioned for this. This actually helps to put an end to it. A colleague of Uhan spoke about women who had to sign, who were discriminated against because of the personal circumstances of pregnancy, for example; whether they had to sign Bianca’s commitment not to be absent for a certain period of time due to pregnancy or then due to maternity leave and later on parental leave. Until this was discussed, until some successful applications were made so long, this field was unknown, although there was much talk at the informal level, but there was not much talk about it. And I think that such measures were not against it until, even with such an anonymous application to the Office for Equal Opportunities, something could be achieved, things began to settle somewhat. And I will still not say that everything is arranged because the question is how women are treated for a job when they run for office. I know the case of the cell hospital, for example, where the doctor couldn't get a job, and the doctor got a job, and the car and some other benefits, due to feminization of health care, were said because they could do something different. I have noticed that, let's say what has been the rule of double sex in recent times in calls, exceptions are only cases where, because of the specificity of work, it really can't be different from that of a person of a particular sex. I've been listening on the radio lately, in the public media, in a notice or an invitation to look for journalists. How else do you understand that the invitation is closed to journalists?Oh, my God! The point is that now that we have finally felt this ambiguity in the invitations as some binding civilisation standard, when things are abandoned, we feel like a problem. And here it seems to me that we should be significantly more sensitive to these things, and here it seems to me that we already have the advantage of discussing these things not only by Members, but also by Members, as is the European custom, that often, for example, in the Council of Europe, where I am more closely following these matters, these matters are sexually balanced. And only when these things are in the minds of all of us will our lives be more united and fairer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-07-10-SDZ4-Redna-41.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Does the motioner want a word? No, no, no. Thank you. Then I conclude the debate. The proposal for a recommendation submitted to the assembly by the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities will be decided on Friday, 11 July 2008, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timetable. I hereby terminate this agenda item and interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the meeting of the Health Committee will be adjourned in 10 minutes. Thank you.
