ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 39th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Breda Pecan and Matjaž Švagan. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 21 Members and Members in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. The questions raised at the 38th meeting of the Assembly will then be answered only by ministers present today. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government; this shall be decided by the State Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral response; in this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Minister of Culture, Dr. Vasko Simoniti, Minister of Education and Sport, Dr. Milan Zver, Minister of Environment and Space, Mr. Janez Podobnik, Minister of Interior, Mr. Dragutin Mate, and Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrej Bajuk, from 12.30 p.m. On the bench, you received a review of questions sent and initiatives not answered within the deadline. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša. The first question before the Prime Minister will be asked by Dr. Matej Lahovnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Government! According to Eurostat, inflation was 3.3% in the euro area in April this year, while it was twice as high in Slovenia as it was 6.2%. Slovenia is the country with the highest inflation in the euro area. If we look at specific goods, we can see that milk and dairy products in April this year, compared to April last year, have been encouraged by a third, that fruit has been stimulated by 18%, that liquid fuels have been stimulated by 31.6%, that diesel fuel has been stimulated by more than a third since the beginning of this year, and that the prices of combustion oil exceed all the current records. According to UMAR, higher food and energy prices are also transferred to prices of other products and services, inflation expectations are at the highest levels so far, and we have been facing inflation between 6% and 7% in Slovenia for several months now, and high inflation is becoming a key development problem. In a recent survey, only 13% of respondents said they had a higher standard this year than they had last year, and there are quite three times as many of those who say their standard has fallen. When people were asked how they were hit by irritations, 72% -- almost three quarters -- said very or very medium. And there's only a quarter of them who almost don't feel these changes. According to the same survey 15% of people who went on vacation last year will not go on vacation this year, and 70% of them say that due to a lack of money. I refer to this data mainly because it actually shows that in the structure of the basket [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In particular, life’s necessities lie, so those that prevent people from reducing their purchases, besides food and energy, are more and more other such products and services. [[...]] This means that action must be taken. I therefore ask you: How will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within its powers, act to lower these inflation expectations? And above all: What are the measures taken to improve the standard of those people most affected by inflation?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u3	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u4	Thank you for the question, which is correct in this sense, that the Government does not have in the hands of all instruments to influence inflation growth. There are some of them, and we have talked a lot about them in the last year in the National Assembly. Even when it comes to comparisons, correction should be made. Slovenia does have the highest inflation in the euro area, but it also had such inflation at the beginning when we entered the euro area, because it was the criteria that we reached the hardest. As far as rankings in the euro area are concerned, nothing has changed since 1 January last year. A more objective view of this problem in Slovenia compared to the European inflation problem shows this graph, where it is seen that countries in the European Union that have significantly lower inflation are, of course, countries that also have significantly higher inflation than Slovenia, even once more. And between the Netherlands, which has the lowest, and Slovenia, which has 6 and more, there is a significantly smaller difference than between Slovenia and Latvia, which has 13% inflation, but went to the European Union the same year as we did. In particular, if you look at this comparison, you see that the situation in the European Union, where some policies are also affected by general measures, which are, of course, commensurate with the European average and with some receptions, which have to take account of a situation or the ideal average situation of the whole of the seven-twenty, that these measures then have a different impact on the specific situation in individual countries and that some structures, unfortunately, are now market structures, are substantially less adapted in the new Member States to some real conflict with inflationary pressures than in those countries of the European Union that have developed a market economy and regulatory mechanisms for many years and decades. And this is one of our problems that the Government is dealing with, is that of controlling or regulating market structures and practices. There have been some shortcomings in the past. The Office for the Protection of Competition failed to carry out its work satisfactorily until last year. There were also permanent or five-year mandates. The government didn't interfere. Already where we reached out to these institutions at the end of our mandates, we were accused of personnel tsunamis. Here we should probably have amended legislation earlier in order to allow for refreshments, because it is precisely the failure of the two regulatory institutions - the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Agency for the Market in Securities - that largely or largely contributed to the fact that there are partial monopolies in the field of supply or trade in Slovenia and that, therefore, this amortizer, which the market economy always represents to a certain extent or means before the inflationary pressures in Slovenia, has not worked to such an extent as in some other Member States of the European Union. A key observation the government has so far received from the opposition's sent-in types was that we have a budget deficit. If I am not mistaken, it is the Member who has asked this question today that put a similar question at the heart of the problem, or in the heart of the problem, exactly the budget deficit. Since last year, Slovenia has no more budget deficits. So fiscal policy is not directly responsible for this inflation. The government has done everything to create a surplus, to save, and thus to signal all other sectors that this is just a step. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] In order to alleviate inflationary pressures in those segments of the population where long-term measures do not represent a real solution at present, we have taken a number of measures [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u5	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u6	Thank you very much. But, Mr President, in many ways, I can agree with you; even part of what you have mentioned is true. But I don't understand why you're comparing Slovenia to Latvia. Latvia is not in the euro area. Bulgaria and Romania are also in the European Union, and we cannot compare with them as far as inflation criteria are concerned because we have introduced the euro, we are in the euro area and this is a criterion for us. And inflation in Slovenia is twice as high as the euro area. Even 1.1.2006, when we entered the euro area, we met inflationary Maastricht criteria, and inflation was much lower than it is today. Today, virtually every month, we face inflation between 6% and 7%. I know all the levers are gone from the government. It is clear that monetary policy is no longer within our jurisdiction, but a lot of leverage is, some of which you yourself have mentioned. As for the deficit and the rebalancing, I was, I mean, the first to say that this rebalancing is a small step in the right direction, but a very, very small step, that's the problem. The balance sheet refers to 2 promila gross domestic product and, if we look at the structural deficit, it is still a problem. We can't just see the deficit as such, and we probably both know that. So the problem of inflation remains between 6% and 7%, and the key problem for me is that three quarters of people say that inflation has hurt them very much or medium and that three times more people have dropped their standards this year compared to those that have risen. There is a problem and several levers the government certainly has; some of these you have mentioned at last yourself.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, as far as these measurements are concerned, how some macroeconomic indicator affects the standard. If you look at the polls in 2004, you will see that there are also many people at the time to ask: Do you think you are living worse this year than last year," answered "Yes." This is a normal response that we always get and always have to combine these answers with real statistics. With regard to surpluses, it is very important to know that last year Slovenia has also reached the surplus of the wider sector of the country. A minimum, but for the first time in history, that we have substantially reduced public spending, that we have increased employment, that works positively on the whole macroeconomic picture, and that the Government has a strict policy in the field of regulated prices, where prices are regulated, and that the Government, despite very high pressures and very low support from those who are advocates in general for anti-inflation measures, does not give in to demands that wage policy be released in a direction that would drive inflation into spirals. There may still be the biggest challenge here, where the toughest negotiations are being conducted, because the social dimension of development must also be taken into account, but it must be borne in mind that some high, average, linear wage growth in the country poses a threat to those who would receive slightly higher income and then inflation would still lower their real value. The government here had a little more support. I think it would be easier for everyone and that this inflationary spiral would be easier to tame. However, I do not predict that the Government will be able to do anything on the two key segments that drive inflation, namely the price of oil, which has increased from 1 January to this year by 30% in global markets, and the food prices, which have increased on average by almost 70% in global markets over the last six months. These inflation generators are not affected by the government and will be faced with this in the coming months.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u9	Thank you. The next one will ask the Prime Minister a question from the Member States, Mr Victory Jelinčič, a noble one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. You may find it a question, Mr President, that it is not exactly for you, but it is a question to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia must answer, although a great deal of weight and guilt is also borne by the National Assembly, which thus recognised the independence of Kosovo on its neck when you voted in favour of all parties other than the Slovenian National Party. It's a question of the Slovenians who lived in Kosovo. There were numerous Slovenian families in Pristina, Kosovo fields, southern Kosovo Mitrovica and other parts of the province. 99% of these families, between 500 and 1,000 people, have yet to have accurate data, have been expelled from their homes. Homes were burned, people were beaten and many young Slovenians were taken to Albania, where they were cut and sold as spare parts in the organ trade. I have quite a few data, say, the cruelest data is about 17-year-old Ivan Jeric, who was taken away by Albanians, of course with the help of UNMIK, UNPROFOR and KFOR, and he was taken from the second grade of high school by a 17-year-old student. There's a lot of stuff like that. What will the Slovenian government do in this area? Does the Slovenian government even know about this? Is the Slovenian government or Slovenian state, including the National Assembly, anything to do with protecting Slovenians elsewhere in the world, not just around here and Argentina? I expect something will happen in this area. I'm willing to give you all the information I have. There's not much data. The data is horrifying, and I hope that the National Assembly will no longer accept representatives of the Kosovo Parliament with such cordiality, as it was recently accepted, but will also ask them a question. And that we will no longer listen to every hint from the United States of America and the European Union, but that we will also think about our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Although it seems to me that this freedom of the parliamentary question in this case is somewhat, very much, I will say, widely interpreted because the statement you have made does not, in my opinion, hold, because we do not have official information on this. If that were what you say, I doubt this would remain hidden from the public's eyes. I am also firmly convinced that the international institutions, both those working there, under the auspices of the United Nations and those working there under the auspices of the European Union have certainly not done what you say. The numbers you're talking about for the first time I've heard of them. According to official data, there are about 400 Slovenes living in Kosovo. We have no record of anything happening to anyone you've mentioned here. Of course, we'll check all the clues that you have and that you say you're willing to hand over. But I think it's all very incredible.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u13	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Well, I'm sure he's holding that the government doesn't have any record of it, but he doesn't have any actual data on it. And I don't think he actually has any information on this and that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs here has totally missed its purpose and everything else. Carla Del Ponte published the book Hunting, subtitled "Me and War Criminals". There he describes to a large extent what was happening and describes something else. The facts are known to a large extent, but it is true that the Slovenian state does not know them. And that's sad. Interestingly, people from those places sent letters with a request to publish some of this, even in some Slovenian newspapers, such as the Work, but in Del they did not want to publish it - I don't know why. Probably so we don't spoil a pretty image or something. Once again, I hope the government will do something in this area. I would also ask for a written answer to give me at least the information you have, although I think it will be in two lines. Because the MZZ has nothing, and I am ready to hand over the information that I have myself to give to the contact persons, both in Serbia and those who may have stayed in Kosovo, so that this matter can be resolved once. However, I do not think that we should be excusing various international institutions, because even Carla Del Ponte – the same institutions that I have mentioned – has also accused participation in the sale of human organs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u16	So, according to our information in the book you're mentioning, this case you mentioned is missing. And he didn't show up anywhere else. Nor is the general atmosphere in Kosovo in any way in favour of the behaviour you are talking about. Slovenians are well received there, both by the majority nation and by minorities as well as by the Serbian people. Slovenia has between 200 and 700 people in various organisations under the auspices of international organisations in Kosovo in recent years. She's very present there. Most of these members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, who are part of KFOR and these units of the Slovenian Armed Forces, are mostly located in areas where they protect the Serb minority. And they're members of these units, you can go in by yourself and make sure of that, very well received from both sides. In fact, according to these data we have, almost the best, even because they are more easily negotiated than members of these forces from some other countries. In general, the atmosphere in Kosovo is towards the Slovenes - and I repeat it once again - both by the majority people and by minorities is positive, which, of course, excludes things from happening in some general sense, in terms of what you have been saying. There may have been some sort of separate criminal case; if you have specific information, we'll check it out. I doubt, however, that this is a policy of someone in Kosovo aimed at the Slovenians, where houses are being set on fire, driven out by families and traded with human organs. With all due respect, Commissioner, but I think you've done a little bit of exaggerating this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u17	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u18	Thank you very much. According to the First Minister's response, especially because I was exaggerating, I would suggest that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we hold a general debate on this. In fact, I also noticed some of the ministers smiling and laughing when I talked about these tragic events. It must be said that the Slovenians are virtually no longer in Kosovo. It was ethnic cleansing, and this ethnic cleansing continues to some extent. Of course I don't know this case. Many other cases are not known because even the current French Foreign Minister Kouchner - at the time he was the head of UNMIK - banned any research in this direction. And yet the facts exist and yet there is evidence in certain places! And I think it is high time that we discuss this in Slovenia, if not for other nationalities, at least for the sake of our people. If we have almost 700 soldiers there, that means we work very well with the local population. Of course, we cooperate, but not with the local population, not even with those at risk, but with the local authorities, which is something else. And, of course, we are also under the auspices of the international community, which is something else again. In Africa, too, there have been crimes involving the botanists of international organisations, peace organisations and the like. The same has happened in Kosovo. And we can't keep our eyes closed because history will tell us that. Let's open things up and solve them. I'm the one who made the case. I can get your parents to tell you about these things. And these parents no longer live in Pristina, but live in Belgrade, where they had to flee, as almost 99% of the Slovenians do -- because Kosovo wants to be ethnically clean. Unfortunately, they are supported by the Republic of Slovenia and unfortunately by the National Assembly, with the exception of the Slovenian National Party. I therefore ask once again to hold a public debate on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u19	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Jelinčič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the context of the vote on Thursday, 22 May 2008. Mr Jožef Školč will put the next question to the Prime Minister of the Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr President, you have already tried to reduce inflation data by inappropriate comparisons in your answer to the first question today. Because if we take Umar's data, then last year's average inflation was 3.6%, 5.2% is forecast for this year. This means a great deal of pressure on social dispersion. Therefore, IMB analysts last week suggested that the government, as a first priority, should only seek anti-inflationary measures. These would reduce price pressure and prevent the social situation of the people in Slovenia from deteriorating. You yourself said that Europe is facing a new reality in the social situation and that the fight against poverty and social exclusion will therefore be at the forefront of the Slovenian Presidency. But the government's actions have recently been such that they go in the opposite direction. The tax reform has burdened the richest. You've taken care of better incomes from politically-set friends in companies. For example, you have enabled Mr Križenowski at the annual level of 10,000 and 25 at Telekom 9282 additional revenues, etc., while for the 800,000 taxpayers for whom this income reform is intended to be beneficial, this increase is 45 euros. But there's still a little scam. Because of the lack of facilities, many people have to pay extra, and because of the lack of housing facilities, they are especially young people. Is this your contribution to reducing these social differences? Is this part of this European policy that is setting up funds? You have also reduced the capital gains tax and again profit the richest. What will you do to make your promises become meat and not to speak one word but to do the other?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u22	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, I should say that, in this mandate or after amending tax legislation, the budget collects substantially more profit tax than in the previous mandate. So this measure was in the opposite direction, as you said. It is true, however, that in the previous term, there were long years when the capital gains were untaxed and the budget did not receive any of this because we talked in this National Assembly for years when the positions were replaced. Now a lot of resources flow from the capital gains to the budget. As far as the anti-inflation measures available to the Government are concerned, I have already talked about all four of them and this is pointless to repeat. As regards social distribution and poverty rates in Slovenia and the European Union, if the debate was held in the State Council where the competent authorities presented the data - the comparison between Slovenia and Europe is here in the table. Despite the fact that we have only been in the European Union since 2004, Slovenia has become one of the least developed countries, which does not mean that the situation is ideal. It is very important that it improves, that it does not get worse, as you said, and that even when it comes to these particular pressures, such as inflation, it responds to these pressures by measures that enable especially those who have lower incomes to face these pressures significantly easier. Thus, in this mandate, for example, when it comes to pensioners, the Government corrected the injustice and introduced the coordination of pensions with gross salaries; then it introduced a protective allowance, the children's allowance increased by 8.4%, there is a higher general relief, we increased the minimum wage and we are preparing some more measures as these pressures continue, as promised at the last meeting. The surplus proposed in the 2008 budget rebalancing is not achieved in any segment at the expense of social transfers or at the expense of measures that can reduce this social distribution, but is a surplus that is proposed solely on the basis of savings, where some authorities have had to significantly cut into their investment programmes, most precisely the Ministry of Defence, and some that have greater investments. However, we have never claimed that there may be no other measure that could be used by the Government if you know how to list it or propose it, we will consider it and we will gladly propose it to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u23	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u24	As far as the latter is concerned, you have a proposal to amend income legislation in the workplace when it allows for a readjustment for those young people who buy apartments. But I don't mind you trying to take good care of the budget, I've asked you to allow, I'll tell individuals to get richer too. I'm facing this with your predictions that you're going to take care of a little bit of deliberation, which is the point, so you don't have to turn it around. Just like that, I'm going to say, the UMAR data say that the minimum wage, regardless of measures, has not increased, but that it has actually decreased by 1.1%. This is the information from your services. Similarly, OMAR says that accessibility to social security services, measured by the public network of institutions and capacity, has remained on the same level since the previous years in 2006 and has not improved. The number of rejected applicants has even increased. That's the information, Mr. President, you're being denied. In these few minutes, we never have time to face all of your propaganda apparatus that you have and to tell the data that you are producing yourself that you are simply producing lies, that the social situation is different, that there are no measures to eliminate poverty; and, lastly, you have had a lower level of advice yesterday where people who are facing it have spoken [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and ask similar questions as I'm asking here today. [[...]] Is this the new righteousness you are preaching?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u26	The issue of social justice and social distribution is not only a matter of income, wealth, performance, economic growth, but also a matter of distribution or redistribution everywhere, and this is also a major problem or a major challenge where there is no ideal system. If you look at this comparison that you have before you, you see that Luxembourg, which is at least once richer than Slovenia after national income per capita, is a more socially divided country. Although they have sufficient resources to put an end to this poverty long ago, they do not have a mechanism in place that would actually make it possible to do so in practice. As poverty is not just a question of money, a question of material status, it is also a question of education, knowledge, not least of culture, social inclusion, status and so on. From this point of view, I would be very happy to have someone propose something concrete. You are proposing a European model - Slovenia is no longer enough because Slovenia is above the European average. As far as real data is concerned, it's always like this. It is always possible to draw an individual example out of the picture and on the basis of this try to create some general truth, but it does not. You cannot claim that because one bus missed passenger traffic, all passenger traffic does not work. That's about what your claim was. From 2000 until now, real wages or wages in Slovenia are growing real. So the general standard, if measured by this income, is increased. It is true, however, that at that time there was an irregularity, that if someone had raised 700 or a billion euros in assets in 10 years, others would have so much less. True, this could not have been done in a legal and honest way. As for responsibility, however, it is necessary to ask a more general question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u27	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that this should be discussed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I did not pull any particular case on my own, but statistics, Mr President of the Government. Statistical data from the government office. In this respect, you're getting away with it again. You can't cover all the answers with today's table. If you already want the Luxembourg case, then there is also a question in Luxembourg about how much poverty is and how much poverty is hidden. That's what we're talking about. It is not only a question of dispersion, but it is a question of real poverty. And these were the things that you might have listened to yesterday, if you were really interested, in the hall below. And the fact is, not only does one individual have a lower salary than we would like to say with the bus case, but that the minimum wage is actually lower. According to your information [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u29	Mr. Skull, do you have a procedural proposal? [[....]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u30	Of course, Mr President. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u31	Do you want to continue with the controversy? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u32	Mr. President, you can hold on to this. I have reason to believe that it is necessary to discuss the inadequate response of the President of the Government that he does not know the details of his offices in this Chamber. I would like to discuss his answers and the data of Umar, not some of my hair-attracted statements, as I would like to present to the public the President of the Government. And I ask you to support us in this discussion. We will not discuss my claims this time, but rather the lack of knowledge of the President of the Government and the lack of knowledge of the data of Umar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u33	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Školč to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary questions, the National Assembly will decide in the context of Thursday's votes, i.e. tomorrow, May 22nd. And the final question to the Prime Minister will be posed by a mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that! Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Council of Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its rejectative opinion on the Law amending the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households, stated that the proposed amendment to the law would entail the repeal of the uniform model of coordination and that all transfers would be coordinated with the growth of average gross wages. The Government further clarifies both arguments, forgetting that by adopting the law into a uniform mode of coordination it has unified and mixed social rights on the basis of pure solidarity and the right to insurance, which is unacceptable to us. In doing so, she was aware of the fact that the majority of the unification caused a deterioration of their situation, and the adopted Protection Supplement Act and the Family Receipts Act had already disrupted its uniform mode of coordination itself because it meant that she had recognised and followed the law adopted in autumn 2006 in the wrong direction. With regard to the harmonisation of pensions, they also do not grow as provided for in Article 150 of the Law, but significantly slower, as data show that on average pensions in the country have fallen by slightly more than 20% in the last 15 years. This is evidence that neither pensions nor social transfers can endanger public finances, since only part of the necessary funds are covered from the budget and most from the pension and health allowance. That's not what I'm saying. In fact, the law in force means freezing and, in the event of an expected fall in inflation, even a long-term real decline in transfers, which would mean not only a social but also an existential issue for the beneficiaries when food is high. Our law therefore offers an arrangement whereby we can coordinate under a single system, but by ensuring not only the sustainability of public finances but also social sustainability and the realization of the rights enshrined in individual insurance laws. For this reason, I ask you, Mr President of the Government, whether it would suggest changing the Government's position on the proposed law and at least supporting it in the main objectives, which would be in the context of the often mentioned welfare and changed circumstances? And a second time. Isn't there a bit of cynicism in the projected budget surplus, which has also arisen at the expense of the deterioration of the position of the majority of those who are recipients of social transfers and who are struggling with poverty? Within this year, savings of EUR 25 million were forecast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u36	Thank you very much. First of all, about this last statement. It is true that the pressure on certain parts of the budget, where there are funds for social transfers, has been slightly reduced in recent years. This is mainly because employment has increased. In Slovenia, tens of thousands of new jobs have been created in recent years, so many more people have become employed, so many fewer are unemployed, so many more people are newly employed, are paying contributions and so many less are receiving social transfers. Thus, the general economic and social picture, which improved in Slovenia due to increased employment and also to real wage growth, also contributed to the creation of larger inflows on the one hand, on the other hand, to the reduction of some outflows. However, this does not mean that transfers to individuals have decreased. They didn't shrink anywhere, they got bigger everywhere, or they actually stayed the same, all the numbers show that. The share of the funds that Slovenia spends, for example, on pension payments, is approximately the same between 2004 and 2008 or this share is about the same, between 10 and 11% of the gross domestic product - niche for a few tenths of a year, depending on how the other macro numbers move. And given that gross domestic product is rapidly increasing as we have high economic growth, the share maintained at about the same level shows that pensions, as well as all other expenditure related to growth itself, are increasing. If we look at the comparison, we see that, for example, one of such important indicators that is used everywhere, in all normal countries, in all countries, where they also have solidarity pension schemes and legislation that protects employees, there is a comparison between the minimum wage data and the minimum full-time pension. The proximity of these numbers is very high in Slovenia. I think we're a country - I don't know another country, maybe there's another country - where these two numbers are so close. The minimum full-time pension in Slovenia is 403 euros, who receive less, received a security allowance, so this is levelled. The minimum full-time salary is €566 gross, net around €400, which means that the minimum wage is essentially the same as the minimum pension. So, as far as it's concerned, it's hard to say that some layer here is deprived. In particular, we cannot claim that in Slovenia pensions are treated as social. Pension is paid for past work on the basis of paid contributions and, of course, also the solidarity system, which means that contributions are also paid on the opposite side or mainly on the other side. And this relationship has to be taken into account. By breaking this relationship, it is said that with some intervention in just one segment, you would get nothing. So we would just start a process that would eventually, in the situation we're in, drive forward the inflation spiral, which would ultimately take the most away from those who have the smallest income. From this point of view, some linear measures are not correct, and we have been talking about this for a year. The government has already put in place some measures to help those most affected, and it will prepare some more measures in the future if these trends continue. However, these will be measures that will be precise, which will go only to those that are actually affected, and which will not pose a risk for us to launch this inflationary spiral into the sky with our own contribution.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u37	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u38	Thank you very much. So, some of the substantive things in your answer are like you said, but they don't all hold. In GDP, the cost of pension bills has been reduced faster in the last 4 years than before, so that the total cost of social security for pensioners is falling. Even according to the Court of Auditors' report, the Government does not have in place strategic mechanisms for the protection of the elderly, for example, even though this has been announced in its programme. I must also say that I have not received an answer as to how the rights of individual insurance can be frozen. For example: out of pension insurance, health insurance, unemployment insurance, because - contrary to your claim, the benefits or transfers from this title did not increase by 1 cent last year, which means that they actually decreased when inflation was what it was. Realized cut! And it is not possible to agree to a real reduction, especially when you explain that there is a difference in GDP due to employment. Yes, because it always counts on the total result achieved, the percentage of things involved. And when the percentage is greater, then we can't make it worse for those who are fueled by this common created property. And here I see the lack of this solution and of course the problem in this sense that in the long run it does not contain criticism. Because if inflation had stagnated or dropped for the next five years, these people wouldn't have gotten a cent more because the calculation is about inflation growth, not inflation as it is. And that's unacceptable, because we'd actually be getting into an ever-increasing problem. And in this sense, I want a complementary answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I did not understand this last one as to the difference between inflation and inflation. Clearly, the calculations are linked to growth, not some condition. Well, if you were tied to a permanent condition or to an frozen condition, then there would be no charges because there is no movement. Maybe I misunderstood. Now, as regards these comparisons or my claim that greater employment and improved macroeconomic or economic and social image in Slovenia have contributed to reducing pressure on certain social transfers, this applies to key transfers, those that are the largest, and it is also necessary to distinguish what social transfer is and what the other right is. The fact that some things or mechanisms cannot be frozen or that they should not be frozen — I don’t know. If that were the case, then immediately after the 2001 elections, with the agreement of the DeSUS, the previous Parliament would not freeze the coordination of pensions with salaries. So you did! And it is only this Government and this Parliament that has corrected this in this mandate. Well, obviously you can. And I'm glad we did it together. However, I do not see any reason why something that we agreed on in the coalition at the beginning of the term is now being undermined and demanded things that are not real in the months leading up to the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u41	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Therefore, given the answer, which is not precise or flawed in the sense that it is not fully feasible either, I propose that, in accordance with the business regulations on this in the National Assembly, a general discussion be held also because we did not make the envisaged amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act in 2005, as it says; more so, with the Transfer Coordination Act, we have frozen, for example, an annual supplement for which we have written there to slowly grow to 75% of that in the public sector. He didn't grow one cent last year, and this year he's gonna grow smaller than he should. That means we're out of the deal. With regard to the freezing of pensions, the coordination of pensions in 2000 with our agreement, I must say that it was not the freezing, but that the method of coordination at the time was not the freezing, but something worse than what it is now. We have improved the mode of coordination, but not consistently, the pensions are not aligned with salaries, but last year, for example, they are 2% behind compared to net wages and 1.3% compared to gross salaries. This means that we have not fully implemented the coalition agreement, but we have improved coordination for the better. As far as insurance rights are concerned, I also did not get an answer. In fact, it is not possible to accept a submenu that anyone with another law can break what people have the right to obtain from some insurance. It's the same as if I were to insure a helmet car, but in another law it would say that it's right that it's insured, but it won't, because we froze it and decided to freeze it. Of course, this decision is possible, but it is wrong, it is always possible to make such a decision, but it is not good, and it is good to talk more about it, to come up with more accurate data on the surface and then see what can be done. Things need to be regulated in the long run, as we suggest. In the short term, however, it is possible, for example, to think about the Draganj allowance. We cannot be against such solutions, we support such solutions, but in a way that truly affects those who are most affected, and of course from the right address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u43	Thank you. The proposal by Mr Znidarsic to hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I hereby conclude the question to the President of the Government. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 38th meeting of the assembly. First of all, he'll be Minister of Economy, Mag. Andrej Vizjak answered the questions of the three Members: Mr Dušan Kumr, Dr Paul Gantar and Mr Ljub Germić. First, the answer to Mr Dusan Kumr's question regarding the disposal of state property. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to my side as well! I read Member Dusan Kumra's question, including the magnetogram, when he put it at the previous meeting, and from these general questions I have seen, in fact, that he is particularly interested in the circumstances regarding the divestment of the holding's share of the Slovenian power plants in the Nitrogen Plant Ruše. The Government shall conduct procedures for divestment of State shares in accordance with the Public Finance Act and in accordance with a regulation specifying in more detail the sales procedures. This is a very transparent and demanding procedure in which the Commission is defined, valuations are carried out, and a public method is also carried out, either a call or an invitation to tender, thereby obtaining the corresponding tenders. Finally, the contract shall be concluded with the tenderer, in agreement with the Government. The contract shall specify all obligations previously arising from the invitation to tender or from the previously published requirements of the seller up to the future buyer. That's what happened in this case. One of the very important levers of insurance was the retention of jobs, the demand for the buyer to continue production, to update production, to meet environmental requirements and so on. And that's why guarantees were required. In this case, the seller was on behalf of the State, in fact Holding the Slovenian Power Plant and these guarantees, which have not yet been cashed in in the case of TDR Ruš, is approximately EUR 4.7 million. Even happened to this company? Unfortunately, due to the circumstances on the part of the buyer, there were difficulties in the company, forced settlement, which was triggered on the pre-godly evening of last year and when the Slovenian Power Plant also carried out the audit, the possibility of maintaining the activity was very low and therefore the TDR itself proposed the initiation of the bankruptcy procedure. Of course, Holding, as a seller in this case and as a seller of the sales contract, will primarily take care of the interests of the employees in this case and therefore also seek legal options and levers for how to allocate the cashed bank guarantees to the payment of these claims. At the same time, I believe that the economic situation, as well as the low number of unemployed and the demand of some companies, is such that the consequences of job losses will be least known to workers themselves, something with over-employment, I hope that a large majority, and, of course, something also with appropriate pay or severance. The State, Holding the Slovenian Power Plants on its behalf, has followed and advocated the objectives of further developing and maintaining jobs and upgrading production. This was also very clearly demonstrated by the buyer in the sales process. For reasons on his part, this has not occurred. The buyer did not respect the provisions of the sales contract and did not develop the activity as he committed himself and promised, and not least for what he had made a guarantee. In this case, the country will act as a good master and will have a special sense of those who have lost their jobs in this particular case.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u45	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that I have listened with interest to what the Minister will today say to me what he will say to me in this answer. I expected you to tell me how or if you would even do something against the owner and all those who helped him bring the company to bankruptcy. Here, of course, I am referring to the fact that the country, read by the Government, reads the Ministry of the Economy, sold it at a ridiculously low price of 200,000 Euros with a very binding contract. And what you said before doesn't hold. You, the State, the Government, together with the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, broke the signed contract with the owner and you and them are guilty of bankruptcy. [[Wait, then you'll have a chance to answer.]] And what is today, two years after that, in a binding contract? A month after the signature, the owner began to sell the consent of the holding of Slovenian power plants to the same company, namely the establishments for which he committed himself in the contract to rehabilitate them, even valued. And with the consent of the Holding or the State. So once again, I ask you, Minister: What will you do against the apparent abuse of property damage? What will you do about the breach of the signed contract, where the state-owned company Holding Slovenian Power Plants also participated? What will you do against the SDS officials sitting in this holding company and in your ministry? Do you not feel responsible for the abuses that have taken place in this case?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u48	Dear Mr. Kumer, you are obviously sitting in the wrong hall. This isn't a court of law. You've condemned a whole bunch of people here to abuse things, to be responsible and to expect punishment. Why haven't you loaded it yet? We could've imposed a penalty. I don't know, you'd shoot one, just like you used to do in the past. That's irresponsible of you. One more time. In a specific case, it binds the relationship between the buyer and the seller of the sales contract. You haven't listed any of the elements where this sales contract would have been broken. You said it was broken. Of course, now that you are using the Rules of Procedure again and demand a debate, I will no longer have the opportunity to answer your questions, I will no longer have the opportunity and you will be misleading the public here. Once again, as regards the relationship between Holding, the person responsible by Holding, who is the custodian of the contract, is also responsible. They are good and will continue to examine possible abuses by the management, but you must be aware that the disposal of unnecessary assets for the continuation of production has also involved funds that have been invested back in the salaries of employees, including, not least, certain repromaterials, the payment of operating costs, such as electricity and the like. It's not true that someone was selling something, and that money disappeared. That's not true. Simply put. If you have evidence of this, you must also present them to the responsible persons for this. So I reject any of the current findings of the infringement and the abuse of the buyer. But it is true that, according to my information, he acted irresponsibly towards the employees, the company and the company led to the situation he was in. Therefore, the State with the guarantees it had as collateral in such a case will also adequately address some of the problems that have arisen.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u49	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u50	Thank you very much. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we hold a broader debate in the National Assembly on this particular case and the Minister's response, in particular because it concerns some others. However, in explanation of this, according to the scale - the minister obviously does not know that he is sitting in the National Assembly, but not somewhere at a rally - I will read to you the tendering conditions and then the terms of the contract that are broken so that you will not say that I am speaking to mind. I have the contract and the consent of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants here. The terms of the call were: to bring in new programmes, not to allow any staff to carry out the mandated development programme on 12 projects. Once again, after a month and a half, when this call was made and the contract was signed, he began to sell off the same company's assets on those programmes that should be remedied. The entire contract provided for the retention of the total production volume, the modernisation of investments in individual segments, the introduction of additional programmes and the non-registration of workers. In a year and a half, none of these matters have been realized! Today, April, I know you were abroad, last week workers were picking up work books and the company went bankrupt! And this was done by this owner in agreement with Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, which is a state-owned company over which you are watching, Minister. And you're deceiving the Slovenian public and us here in Parliament and you think we're fools! But you once told me about electricity to mix apples and pears [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u51	Mr. Kumer!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u52	And I'm telling you today, you're drinking obviously every day the juices from the forest fruits.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u53	Mr. Kumer, please don't continue with your new findings. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u54	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u55	For the minister no longer has the opportunity to answer your new revelations. [[....]] He can't even say that your claims don't hold. On the proposal by the Member, Mr Kumr, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow in the context of the vote. Now Minister Andrej Vizjak will answer Dr. Paul Gantar's question about the allocation of radio frequencies. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Dear Member! The Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications is bound by the Law on Electronic Communications in the provision of radio frequencies. Article 36 of this Act provides that a decision on radio frequency allocation may be issued in accordance with the general act on the radio frequency plan, in two different procedures. In principle, a decision shall be issued on the basis of a law governing the general administrative procedure and no payment shall be made for the effective use of radio frequencies. Except in cases where the electronic communications law so provides, it is necessary to carry out a tendering procedure before the decision is issued, the radio frequency award decision shall be issued on the basis of a call for tender where it is determined in the public opinion procedure that the effective use of radio frequencies can only be ensured by limiting the number of radio frequency decisions issued. Where the APEK finds that the interest is more than possible, it may then choose those and on the basis of the invitation to tender and when they apply, it shall select those who best meet the tendering conditions, such as those which also offer the highest payment. In a specific case, this is the case where the APEC, on the basis of paragraph 1, assessed that there could be more interest and published in the Official Journal a public call for the opinion of the public concerned regarding the allocation of the radio frequency concerned. However, according to the APEK information, an additional publication was made on the APEK websites at the relevant time, which, due to subsequent withdrawals, cannot be stated with certainty, as were also the public findings of those who responded to this APEK measure. The APEK also argues that the procedure in question is fully carried out in accordance with the Law on Electronic Communications. On the basis of this public call in the Official Journal, there must be clear evidence of this and, according to the APEK, also on the websites, it was found that only one company, one economic company, responded and expressed interest, and therefore the APEC was also obliged to act in accordance with Article 38(4) of the Law on Electronic Communications and that company was granted a decision on the allocation of free radio frequency on the basis of the provisions of the law governing the general administrative procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u57	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u58	Look, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General. I'm not particularly pleased with that answer. I certainly don't have to read the law on electronic communications, believe me, I know him well. When a radio frequency provider appears, the APEC shall, by public call, determine whether there is any other provider in addition and, on that basis, may decide on the basis of the procedures. This is what the APEK did in a very unusual way. Although he published this call in the Official Journal, 21.12., before Christmas, this is Official Gazette 118. and claims that he also published it on the website, which is not usually an additional one, usually has to publish it on the website, he claims that he has also published it on the website. On the APEK website when I wrote this question, three or two other calls were published, which were published at the same time, and this was not the case. Therefore, we can reasonably conclude, regardless of what the APEC claims, that the call on the website has not actually been published. That's the first thing. But in this regard, it is certainly a fact that he published this matter in one way or another at a time when it was expected that there would not be much attention for other potential operators. What I am really asking you is: Has the tenderer, the one who did apply, pleaded in respect of the payment? This call must also include a payment-related clarification. Whether he said he was willing to pay so much or so or nothing. And I would also like to ask for an opinion: Why did the APEC leave this obligation to pay this payment, however? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u60	One more time. I have tried to explain on the basis of the wording of the articles of the law why, in the case of an express interest, only one actually does not have a legal basis for payment. It is a matter of taking into account the general administrative procedure of the legislation and issuing a decision on the basis of compliance with the procedural provisions of the ZUP, which does not provide for payments for the effective use of frequencies. Once again, if there is more interest, such as tenders, a call shall be made and allocated to those who are prepared to receive or receive these radio frequencies under the most favourable conditions. However, if this interest has not been established, the legislation does not provide that only one person who will be granted frequency or given this decision will be paid from that point on. According to the information provided by the APEK, he did not have a legal basis to claim payment from this sole interested party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u61	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u62	The President, see, in accordance with the business regulation, I propose that the National Assembly, at its next meeting, hold a discussion on the Minister's inappropriate response. I'm not going down, and I'm not talking about legislation. We know that. I asked a very short question. This debate will be very brief in one month: Has the tenderer declared payment? He had to do it because it's under the terms of this offer. The law does not provide for payment, but it does not prevent it. A whole range of experts believe that some payment, even a smaller one, can be a condition for doing something about this frequency. Finally, if I understood, the actions against the courts in Slovenia, the complaints and even the complaints against the European Commission also went forward. Therefore, I propose that we do not know this well about legal regulation, but that we hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly on the specific answer or non-response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u63	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Gantar to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the framework of tomorrow's vote. The Minister will now answer Mr Ljub Germić's question on the effects of the sale of shares in state-owned enterprises. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u64	Of course, it can be understood from the question that it concerns the Slovenian steel industry. If I am wrong, the Member will be able to explain this to me below. If so, then the following objectives could be achieved by selling 55,35 shares of the Slovenian steel industry. The first objective is to expand the sales market of the Slovenian steel industry to the European market. With the vertical link between the Slovenian steel industry and the Russian buyer or OAO Koks group, it is possible to maintain all business functions and improve their competitiveness in steel production as it is a vertical link between suppliers of raw materials, production and the market. The new owner has a high rating. High ratings are also an additional guarantee to achieve the objectives set. The Slovenian steel industry has thus ensured or is also ensured that long-term objectives are met, additional investments in equipment amounting to approximately EUR 250 million by 2010. In 2008 alone, almost €110 million will be invested, jobs will be maintained, the entry of the new owner has actually increased the number of employees. Jehovah’s Witnesses, 4 / 1 2007 SIJ hired 3077 employees, 1.1.2008 - 3227, says 150 more. By the end of the year, approximately. 3,300 employees. These numbers mean or speak more than a comment. It is very important that the new buyer has also accepted a broader responsibility towards the Slovenian social and economic environment. Finally, this is reflected in sponsoring some sports activities, especially in that part of Slovenia. In this case, the level of the purchase also met the ceiling of the valuation report. Small shareholders were allowed to exit at the same price, despite the fact that the Russian buyer was not obliged to make a takeover offer under the legislation in force at that time. We estimate that this sale of shares has been successful, that there are sufficient targets, some even exceeded, not only for a short period of time, but mainly for the future and developmental orientation of companies, core companies and others within the Slovenian steel industry.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u65	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I understand, Mr Minister, that of course you do not want to answer the question that I have asked you. Given that you clearly told your colleague Kumru that you had looked at the magnetogram, that means you didn't want to look closely at the magnetogram of my question. You are consciously avoiding the answer I have been expecting since last November, when I am asking you written questions, and today you are answering me completely ironically in relation to the people who lost their jobs in TDR Metallurgy in Russia. If you look at the magnetogram, Mr. Minister, and in fact you are expected to look at the contents of the question also from the magnetogram, so I put it at the previous meeting of the National Assembly and asked you to give me an oral answer today. Of course, from the previous answer, you do not like the answers to TDR Metallurgy. How do you explain that you acted as a good master if you do not want to tell the public what the appreciation of this company was?Oh, my God! I've asked you twice. When I ask you that the customer to whom to sell this property was credited, you tell me that the rating was assessed in the financial transaction in 2005. When I warn you that the previous business was bad, you say it's not the only criteria. When I ask you how it is possible for such a small purchase to sell individual parts of the company within the new owner, you say you are not familiar. And today you hope to tell the Slovenian public that these answers actually reflect the conduct of the country as a good host. And, Minister, I expect you to answer my question, which I have asked you. The issue is the sale of state-owned shares and TDR Metalurgy, which was owned by the majority of HSE, which is 100% owned by the country, of course deserves these answers. I would like to make it clear that with the answer that you have served me, I am not satisfied and I hope that you will now answer the questions that I have asked you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u68	I'll read it. You asked: "How do you assess the effects of the strategy and the sale of state shares in state-owned enterprises and in the field of metallurgy in terms of job provision, the payment of small shareholders?" It is true, Your Honor, that is your question, and I am answering your question, and I have committed myself to the largest company in the industry. And if you were referring to TDR Ruše, I will be happy to answer that question, given that I have already given the answer. As for the Ruše Nitrogen Factory, it is more than clear that it was one of the painful or more difficult investments of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding. Holding the Slovenian Power Plant has been looking almost since its establishment in 2000 for a suitable strategic partner for the continuation of production or for the resale and further development of this company. It was a long process. And on the basis of a number of failed choices, finally there was a buyer who guaranteed, including with guarantees at the end, that he would upgrade development projects, programmes and develop this company further. Because of course we are not naive and, of course, we do not believe every thing in the word, so we also demanded adequate guarantees. These guarantees were quite something. I said that there are still around 4.7 million euros uncollected. But there were more. And when it is obvious that the new buyer was unable to meet the conditions of the sale, it is said that he was unable to ensure the preservation of jobs by the end of the following year, he was unable to invest in updates, and he got into trouble. Why he got into trouble is a kind of objective and subjective reason that the country unfortunately has no influence. There have been pressures to release guarantees that he would have money to pay off certain claims to state-owned companies, even in the circle of this Parliament. I would like to point out that the buyer was in trouble, so the enforcement procedure was also initiated. [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And later, you're gonna have to go bankrupt. Both Holding Slovenian Power Plants and the Ministry and the rest of the ministries in the Government will in this case act under [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u69	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer. Of course, I cannot agree with him and I would like to discuss your reply in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. What do we want to know? Mr Minister, in this debate, I would like you to serve clearly with a document of appreciation for this company. What was valued at EUR 229 000 to ensure that individual parts were sold very quickly at millions of euros, and where is this money today? There is evidence that there has been a spillover of this money between individual companies of the same owner. Another time. We want you to make it clear why you allowed the sale to be done, even though in your reply you are saying that the sale did not come under consideration because it would produce bankruptcy. As a result of the increase in the sales volume of Slovenski Power Plants, the market share of Slovenski Power Plants was lower than the market share of Slovenski Power Plants. And today we're in bankruptcy, which you're talking about, selling in pieces isn't supposed to be the reason for bankruptcy. Quite the opposite, given your answers. And that's all in question, Mr. Minister, who you might see if you'd like to read it. But I understand you didn't want to read it. And in order to be able to answer these questions, I am sure that you will also support this general debate. I'm still very interested in the following. When you talk about losing jobs in our environment being defeated very quickly. Of course, I cannot agree with you, given that I know the environment in which I live and that I know the educational structure of the people who have now lost their jobs. These jobs don't grow like mushrooms in the rain. Of course, there should also be a very clear answer in the context of the debate on your response, whether there is only a little wider connection. How to understand this political link between the SDS, you as minister, the Director of Holding and the representative on the TDR Metallurgy Supervisory Board, before the sale, which was the president of the SDS region. And in our environment, he has repeatedly stressed how this sale must be supported and how successful this sale is. Today we are witnessing a completely different event.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u71	Mr. Germič, you are once again tempted to place new insights that the minister can no longer answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u72	Mr. President, I'm running out of time. I justify why I am not satisfied with the answer and why I propose in accordance with the Rules of Procedure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u73	Don't set up new eyes that the minister can't answer anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u74	The Minister does not want to answer the specific questions, not the first written or second written question, nor the question I orally asked. And he didn't even want to read the tape. So, unfortunately, I have to repeat the questions I've already asked. Therefore, I propose that the National Assembly, in order to avoid any speculation, any ambiguities in the environment in which we live, and to confirm what you are saying today, Mr Minister, that the State has acted as a good master to hold a debate on this answer and that you will be able to deny all that I am questioning here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u75	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Germić to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow in the context of the vote. Mr Iztok Jarc, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will now answer Mr Sam Bevk's question about property relations in cultural monuments. However, it has three minutes, since two minutes have already been spent at the previous meeting by another minister to answer this question. Mr. Istok Jarc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u76	Thank you, President. With regard to this supplementary response. I understand that it relates to agricultural land and forests which are in the management of the fund and which are subject to unmeasured objects of cultural or historical significance. You know that the fund received this land at the time of ownership transformation by forestry companies. According to the Fund, these companies were specifically warned to align the land register with the actual situation in nature. In particular, there have been instances of geodetically undetected objects on land, or of cases where transfers have been made without geodetic doses in the Land Book. The Fund states that this is a case that I do not personally know. You must know him well. In general, the Fund says the following, and I agree with this: "We believe it is right to carry out geodetic doses of buildings and related functional land to an individual facility when it comes to these cases. Later these newly created plots are transferred from the fund to the competent institution on the basis of a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Probably in this case the Ministry of Culture or someone else. The concession of land or forests itself is not a problem in these cases, as concessions are only subject to land or forests and not to objects. In view of the above, I say, I do not know which particular case here is meant to refer the competent institution to a fund that is willing to participate in this matter and to carry out the necessary procedures in order to effectively manage these facilities, if they are of such importance, in fact to the competent institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u77	Thank you. Would you like to complete Mr Bevk's answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! I thank Mr. Minister Jarc for his answer. I think we could go this way. In fact, I asked about specific cultural monuments and natural sights that should be on the UNESCO World Heritage List next year, which is the legacy of living silver, which is linked to this rich technical and natural history of our area. It's four slaughterhouses and a Wild Lake. However, it is not only about making a dose of these cultural historical monuments and an influential area, which is narrower, but also about providing these new operators with the means to maintain and manage these monuments. Now these monuments, and not only these monuments, were other similar objects elsewhere in Slovenia in the management of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, which were then transferred with concessions with plots, where mainly forests, to forest economies. In this particular case, to the forest economy of the country. In fact, the Soča forest economy was managed only by forests, these cultural historical monuments and natural sights were not managed by anyone, not by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, not by the Soča Forest Economy, not by the Culture Ministry, not by the Environment Ministry, but in fact by the good will of the local community. That's why I think, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that certain financial resources should also be provided for the maintenance of these monuments, those which will take over this concern. [[...]] In this sense, Mr. Minister, I am asking you an additional question for an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u80	As I have mentioned, the Fund is undoubtedly primarily a land and forest manager, and this is its primary task. The activities referred to by you are in fact neither dealt with nor incorporated into these contracts, with which these lands or forests are transferred to different leases or any other contracts. That's probably a cross-cutting question. I can only promise you that I will speak to the people of the Fund, that they will contact the competent institutions as soon as possible, and that they will agree on the possibilities for resolving this issue. I can't add anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u81	Thank you. Now he's going to be Minister of Economy of Mag. Andrej Vizjak answered Dr Mitje Slavinc's question regarding respect for the broadcasting theory in public tendering. This question has also been addressed to the Minister for Education and Sport, who is absent today and will answer at the next meeting if he allows it for the rest of his time. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Subsidies shall be granted on the basis of previous calls for proposals made in accordance with the rules and publications. Each publication must also contain a deadline. What is most important in this and, in essence, the answer, this period must be long enough for the applicant to be able to submit a quality role in order to have sufficient time. It is very important that this deadline must be the same for all and everyone must have the same conditions. Of course, we are trying to keep the calls as long as possible. However, in some cases or in fact in all cases, it is also necessary to follow the principle of efficiency or then to carry out the procedure in due course. Therefore, as the Member states, the hands are somewhere 45, 60, 30, 45, 60 days and so on. Of course, the key question is, why not count the broadcast at the post office on the same day until one hour, as well as the matter in time. It's a lot of times. [[...]] Mr President, they're disturbing both the Member and me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u83	Thanks for the heads-up. I think it's stuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u84	Many times after this deadline, immediately after this deadline, it is said that if, as you say, Monday at 12 p.m. also public opening, including the beginning of some formal check of the submitted applications, it is quite often, not always, sometimes it is not so, otherwise. [[...]] Therefore, we believe that it is crucial that everyone is given or available long enough to prepare a quality role. And if so, then it is irrelevant whether the day when the mail travels is within this time frame or not, and by taking into account this proposal, which has been given to account for the roles that have been submitted to the post office by that time, it would raise the question of when this role will reach this address dealing with the applications, and also in some way what is going on in this way with this role. I believe that arrangements, such as those, are good and allow everyone under the same conditions to participate in the calls for proposals and in the submission of applications.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Slavinac, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u86	Thank you so much for the opportunity to complete this question. Look, Mr. Secretary. It's a very simple matter. I don't know why you're making excuses, I don't know what else you're going to make up, just so you don't do something that other ministries have found at the beginning of their term of office, and now they're continuing, specifically at the Ministry of Higher Education, that it's one step to give their hand to citizens and citizens, especially to those who don't live in Ljubljana. You say - what happens when the role comes by mail? What's going to happen then? Yeah, well, what happens now that Friday they're broadcasting that he's at the post office on Monday?Oh, my God! They can also send by mail, and the same thing will happen. So, as you can see, you were advised by a bad excuse. Next thing. It's not just about the time he gets here. If you place it at any post office in Slovenia on Monday until 12 p.m., which is then equivalent and equivalent to those who walk across the road from Ljubljana and go to the Ministry, then it will be here in two days at the latest. And these two days certainly don't contribute anything, they don't mean anything compared to 45, 60 days, or more than the Ministry takes for an answer. The more important thing is the cost. Look, if someone wants to, I'll be back from a more remote place, like Lendava, bring them to the Ministry by 12:00, they have to leave in the morning, drive at least three hours or more, here to find a parking space and then turn it over, compared to someone who only walks across the street. And come back again, so much and so much more costs if he doesn't want to lose the weekend to prepare, because on Friday it's imperative to give it up. Very simple. Just expand it, as the other ministries have done, and the matter will be resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u88	Yes, I have not heard any new argument, except that it makes sense to the Member. I have cited a few circumstances that I think would further complicate and make the whole process less effective. The time limit for the submission of the application shall be set and shall be fixed for all equally. And they actually have it, all the same. And if we considered those applications to be submitted to the mail by an hour, then we would probably be waiting much longer for the reply and for further stages of the procedure. And once again, I think it is crucial in the roles themselves that it is indeed the same and equal way for everyone to be given. According to my assessment, the most important thing is that there is sufficient time available in the invitation to tender for the quality preparation of applications. It is difficult for me to imagine that in a number of cases, even for us, when tenders have already been announced before the invitation to tender, when the applicants are also aware of what will actually happen in the invitation to tender to be, that is to say, three hours or as much as you specify, or on a day, two, that key reason that would question that applicant from, I don't know, the furthest part of Slovenia. Once again, we think that the matter is well regulated in the current regulation and I do not rule out any possibility that we are also upgrading it in the spirit of efficiency in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u89	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u90	Thank you very much. I would like to make a procedural proposal to hold a broader debate at the next meeting on the answer to my question. And at that time, we may also have the opportunity to make further and more thorough arguments and discuss them, which I have now said, and I will point them out once again in my explanation. It's not about the same length of time or the same length of time. It's just that everyone has as many options as possible. And, look, the deadline may be ten years for me, but for some objective reasons, because of such a broadcast theory, they have to put the matter up early or be on the road early in order to give it up in time, they don't have the same long deadline. That's the first thing. If a choice is allowed, whether someone brings it to the Ministry or in the home place at the same time of posting it to the post office, the options are the same for everyone. And this is a key and fundamental argument - equal opportunities, as much as possible. The other thing I said was costs. With these people, save not only a waste of time because of the formality of bringing someone to Ljubljana to see what the ministry looks like, and the matter goes away, but that there are no additional costs with transport. One more, very important thing. And I would like to point out to you, Mr Minister, and not only to you, because the same is true for many other ministries, that there will be no harm - and I also argue this in the case of good practice of the former Ministry and of which - because in most cases, in most cases - okay, I agree that in which it is possible to do so - it is possible to represent broadcasting logic in most cases so that it applies when those who make the application not when it comes to the Ministry. I would really like to hold this debate in this National Assembly and that someone else is beginning to realize that Slovenia does not end up on the edge of the cologne, but is slightly larger. Let's assume that it would be even bigger, what that would mean, not just those three hours that I've just said, with that kind of logic. Even if this debate does not seem necessary to you, I conclude that all ministers, all ministries, including those addressed today, should reconsider this proposal. And as it is said, because in most cases to do so is valid even if you submit an application to the post office by the time you write it down in the tendering conditions, without a big circus and without any kind of [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Slavinc's proposal to discuss the Minister's response to his question will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. The Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Milan Zver, is responsible for another answer to Dr. Mitja Slavinca's question. However, since he is excusedly absent today, this debt will be repaid at the next meeting of the congregation. We are now turning to questions from Members of Parliament and Members in the first round. Mr Bojan Kontic will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary! For the third time in this mandate, I have been asking a question related to physiotherapy, problems that we are particularly familiar with through the media and, of course, the protests we are also having in the media. The importance of physiotherapy as a profession is probably not to be lost in words. Without this profession, treatment procedures are no longer easy. It was a sensitive relationship, on the one hand, the Chamber of Physicotherapy Therapyes of Slovenia and on the other hand the Association of Physicotherapy Therapyers of Slovenia, a professional association. And since it was a matter of conferring public powers, and since it was initially decided that these public powers would be given to the chamber, we warned the minister of irregularities. At the time, the Minister appointed the Commission, temporarily suspended the granting of public powers. Of course, now, given the controversy in the media and the concern for this area, I am encouraged to ask you questions: What has really happened since then? Were the doubts at the time also substantiated, or were the Association of Physico-therapeuticians of Slovenia, a professional association, eliminated or not? The question is also: How many active physiotherapists in Slovenia are employed in public health? How many members have the Chamber of Physiotherapy Services of Slovenia? What is the state of expertise in physical therapy by the Ministry of Health? As I said at that time, a commission was appointed in 2005 to obtain data on the number of physiotherapists in hospitals, health centres, health centres, social security institutions and also concessionaires, including concessionaires. These data will be collected by 5.12.2005, was then announced, then the Commission will visit the Society and the Chamber and also review the membership documentation there. We estimate that the work will be completed by 15.12.2005. You will be informed of the results. I ask for answers or for previous questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u93	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. Dear participants on the balcony and, of course, Mr Kontic, thank you for the question. I was not aware that this issue had been raised several times. That this is an open topic and still an unresolved topic - of course I know that. This is a very complicated set of circumstances. As you have already mentioned, the Medical Chamber is the Society of Physicotherapy and it is a matter of minor misunderstandings in Slovenia and we want to resolve this to the best of our ability. Since legislation in this area is also inconsistent, it is poor, especially in the Health Act. There is also very little practice in the field of public distribution, i.e. the call for tenders for the award of public powers, so we are in quite a bit of trouble here. There's been a lot of debate here with one group and another. I saw it from the records. The only good news is that this is not something that would cost, which would not be dealt with within our Stakeholder Directorate. But there's no solution. And of course, I promise you, we will find this solution this summer. Not to hold me for a week, as some of them can hold me - whether it's April 31st or May 5th, but we will find a solution, we also have legal experts, of course we also have a decision by the Administrative Court or a judgment which also gave rise to the possibility of a renewal of the invitation to tender. But these conditions are also such that we do not actually find ourselves in this. However, that the matter is not so critical, and I am also looking from the standpoint of what has been in history, who had these public powers. I have information that there were no such public powers before and that things have been going as well as they are going on today. According to unverified data, the physical therapists' chamber is currently active 1,400 physiotherapists. And the Chamber is supposed to have 1080 members in line with this data, but I'm saying that these are unverified data because we also have a problem because of legislation that is not, of course, "up to date" on data acquisition. Even as the Ministry. And it follows from the data of the IVZ that Slovenia has 1012 physical therapists active, of which 325 are employed in primary health care, specialist organisations - 25, hospitals - 197, clinics and institutes - 173 and 123 in health resorts. And the Ministry's argument that there is no concern about the professional competence of physiotherapists employed in public health care, as institutions have to carry out the recruitment by means of official calls, where the requirements in the field of education also have to be taken into account. The situation with some entrepreneurs, perhaps even healers, has also been regulated and defined by the medical law and by sub-laws, some of which are already, some are still likely to be in the process of being created, as the issues in this area are certainly open. And we are aware of the urgency of rescue. But it is also something that we all know too much to talk together about what kind of authority we have, and not enough about what we are responsible for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u95	Thank you. Does he want a refill? Here you go, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I can agree with this one with the minister. With regard to public powers or regulation in the law, if this was not provided for in the legislation, these public powers were not, of course, simple. The legislation now provides for this and these public powers must be granted. It's basically a story with a long beard. And of course I won't hold you for a week. That is what I am promising you here in the National Assembly, in the hope that your announcement that this will be resolved in the summer months will come true. Unfortunately, however, the fact that I pointed out this in 2005 has now been the year 2008 which has been a while, and as far as I can see from your data, nothing has happened or resolved, even though it has been announced, as I said earlier, that the Commission will end its work on 15.12.2005 and inform us of the results. So from your answer, I can assume that the commission has probably done its job. I mean the timeline. But there's probably no real results. Because this commission should determine the actual number of physiotherapists, the number of them enrolled in the Chamber and the number of them participating in the Society. This will be very important in granting public powers. And according to the numbers you mentioned, of course, they're different, and with different numbers they also operate both. And it could be a big problem. However, it is reliable that there are 796 active physiotherapists who are not registered in the Register of the Chamber because they are active members of the Association of Physiotherapists of Slovenia. It's more than half. The question now is how to face this data. I wish you every success in doing this in the summer months. I would like to know if, according to your assessment, the Commission has done a good job or [[...]] [[Excluding microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u97	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I really don't know all this information and all these details, because there are a lot of them. I mentioned that a few thousand different letters a month come to the Ministry. Plus, it's got to be done all the way back. I don't have that answer. I'll check it out. I also come from the congregation of the World Health Organization in Geneva, and I arrived late at night. And in this congregation, the only concern was global health and high food prices. Just so I can mention what real concern is today. Real concern is that infectious diseases from the underdeveloped world will spread if we do not work very well preventively. And as far as food is concerned, food prices are already causing a global problem. This question also gave me a call to the fact that, not just a question, I also received letters from individual physiotherapists, so I saw that something was happening at the Ministry all the time, meetings were on this subject from 20 to 30 and I didn't go back to reading everything. And apparently the biggest problem is when two or more camps act a little against each other. That's why it's very difficult to find a solution here. But somehow we'll find her. How pleasant or unpleasant she is, I don't know. We have a court ruling. In fact, we do not currently have data available to those who might say that they are reliable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will ask the Minister of Transport the next question. I'm asking the Minister to join us. He's probably out there somewhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u100	So, 'cause I'm running out of time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u101	No, Mr. Gulic, we won't be stealing your time. I'd suggest we skip and switch. First of all, Mr Zvonko Černač asks the Minister of Defence, who is present. Here you go, Mr. Blacky.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Minister, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! After independence, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia became the owner or owner of the assets of the former JLA, numerous military barracks, warehouses, dwellings, land and other properties. It will soon be twenty years from then, so it is reasonable to expect that all assets are in use, given that they have received known owners, but we know that this is not the case. Despite the fact that many properties have been sold in recent years, and many have been transferred to local communities for their development needs, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia still has considerable assets under this title, which is also based on the annual programme we are adopting in the National Assembly. I will limit myself to just two cases of management of this property, many of which I have handed over to the Minister earlier. The first example is an example of good practice. It is the former decaying warehouses that were sold, which really took a long time, from 1992 to 2000, but in the bad five years there was a new business-trade zone in that area. However, the second case is not so encouraging, and the second case points to the property that is still falling, from the year 90 onward, which has been defined in military documents as long-term prospects for the needs of the military. These facilities were in an indisputable state when the former JLA left. It is only necessary to ensure effective management of them. Now, we could show another example of, say, dwellings that have been closed since the year 90 B.C. Despite the efforts made by the Ministry's services in recent years to bring about a more rapid and definitive regulation of the management of this property, and I must say that to the great attention to the development needs of the individual local environment where such properties are located, statistics nevertheless say that the business of this property, which is probably not necessary in the long term for the needs of the Slovenian army, will take place at such a pace for the next twenty years. For this reason, Mr Erjavac, Minister of Defence, I ask: How real-estated is the Ministry's management of this property, and what are the plans of the Ministry regarding it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u104	First of all, a warm welcome to the President of the National Assembly and to the Members and Members of Parliament. A special greeting to the Member who asked me a question. Let me say that it is actually the eighteenth year since the Ministry of Defence has owned the property of the former Yugoslav People's Army, and it is true that nothing has happened in this area in the last fourteen years. I must say, when I took over the mandate and there were no records, it was not clear exactly what was owned by the Ministry of Defence and so on. So immediately, with my arrival, we have also drawn up a plan of measures to essentially regulate the land-book condition, documentation and other matters. I must say, at this time, we have handed over many apartments to local communities, including in the area of your congregation, especially for the purposes of social housing. As far as the rest of the property is concerned, I must say that the situation here is different, where there are still gray foxes in the spatial acts. As far as agricultural land and forests are concerned, I must say that this is where the procedures for the transfer to the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests are taking place. That we have guards and some other rental facilities, these are 48 while the rest are waiting for auction sale. But I must say that we have some auction problems because we fail to sell certain properties. In such a case, we have to try the auction three times, but then we can go to direct sales, or, if the local community shows some public interest, we can transfer such property. I must say that in this mandate we have also transferred a lot of property to other state bodies, in terms of achieving public interest, in particular to justice, where there is a constant lack of space, both for the purposes of courts, prosecutors and prisons, as well as the police, as well as to the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour, for example, social work centres. Let me say that, in 2005, we obtained €1.6 million in this way, and last year, this amount was €7 million, which shows this dynamic. However, I must say that from these means we are restoring the necessary military infrastructure, especially the cadet in Maribor and the various ranges. But I have to say, all these properties are usually in bad shape. For example, the average age of dwellings is 40 years, which also requires a certain cost of renovation. So I expect it won't take another 20 years to sort this out. For so long, it is especially because no one has dealt with this problem in the past. It is true, however, that now that we have a professional army and we are in an alliance, it is quite clear which objects whose properties of the Slovenian Army are also promising for further development. So I'm counting on the new minister to make this definitive in his next term.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u105	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Well, I'll suggest something else, Mr. Secretary. I'm sure you can handle this, too. Despite the fact that many properties are actually involved, the global financial impact is relatively small in view of the needs of the ministry. It is also my opinion that managing this property for the Ministry is a burden. It is also probably not the Ministry’s task to deal with some business that is of a kind of real estate business. In view of the fact that it has been 18 years since these things have been regulated, there has also been quite a few damage when this property is not operational on the one hand and on the other hand it is reduced by the loss of value. For this reason, and in order to deal effectively with these issues, I am taking the initiative, Mr Minister, to re-examine the real estate needs of the Ministry and, for the first time, to ensure their effective management in cases of property that are of long-term importance to the Slovenian Army or for the needs of the State. Secondly, for all other real estates which are not necessary for the Ministry, they should be transferred free of charge in accordance with the new legislation allowing the transfer to local communities only for the purpose of adapting them and renting them for non-profit purposes when it comes to housing or to the growth of development potential when it comes to other real estates. In environments where local communities, due to the cost of renovations, will not be interested in such transfers, but these properties should be sold. I don't think it's necessary, Mr. Minister, to wait for the next term. I am sure that with the proper organisation of the ministry service you are able to arrange this matter within a period of no more than three months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u108	When we receive your initiative, we will examine it and see what we can do.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr Aleš Gulič will now ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u110	Dear Mr President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary. The type-approval procedures in our country are linked to four authorised professional organisations and owners of a used vehicle with European type-approval, according to which those purchased outside the Republic of Slovenia have for some time been alerted to some unusual practice of authorised professional organisations in individual vehicle approval or national type-approval procedures. The authorised persons should not take into account the decisions of Article 31(3) of the Regulation on conformity assessment of vehicles and, instead, the provisions of the authorised expert organisation in determining the appropriateness of exhaust emission control equipment as a minimum standard require that a passenger or cargo vehicle fulfil the standards or requirements of Directive 94/12 EC which began to apply in 1997. This means that in this type-approval procedure they comply with harmonised rules which have not yet been in place at the time of the manufacture or first registration of the vehicle and thus cannot obtain a certificate of conformity. They can be picked up by much older vehicles, the one over 25 years old, because then it goes to other rules about ancients, but that's another story. But there's a hole in the middle that makes it impossible. It is clear to me that it is in the public interest that Slovenia does not want to become a car waste, but here it usually goes not so much for financial and material desires, but more for spiritual ones. So, you want something that's been drawn to when, of course, it hasn't been done yet. At the time of entry into the European Community, it was also clear in itself that this could be possible, but something else had obviously happened. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you, how do you view this issue? What is the Ministry's position on the use of such vehicles? Is there really no way to get this, or is it just some "UZUS" some kind of inertia that's been going on since before, and of course what is the control over these authorized professional organisations? But as people write to me, there are indications that the power to obtain such certificates is, of course, if you "milk" someone to say it more domestically than I wrote in the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President, President. Thank you very much for the question, Mr Member, at the same time, for keeping me outside by the press. As far as the question is concerned, I'll say the following. Therefore, the legal position of the acquirer or owner of the used vehicle with the previously acquired European dehomology is not subject to the provisions of Article 31 of the Vehicle Conformity Assessment Regulation, which deals with the individual authorisation of the vehicle and which refers to the question referred to, but, in fact, to the provisions on specific types of imports of vehicles referred to in Articles 34 to 38, where simpler procedures are considered. These are: identification and assessment of the technical condition of the vehicle. Thus, Article 35 provides that a natural or legal person who imports a used vehicle provisionally or permanently registered in another Member State of the European Union shall only submit to a professional organisation a request for identification and assessment of the technical condition of the vehicle. The identification is intended to establish the vehicle's identity according to the data in the attached documents. However, when assessing the technical condition of the vehicle, the integrity of the vehicle shall be visually checked, i.e. the integration of all the required components and the ability to drive safely in road traffic, i.e. Article 37 of the Regulation. Professional organizations. There are now 28 of these, and not just 4 of them, as you mentioned. In addition to the above Regulation, in order to ensure a coordinated operation, they shall also take into account the mandatory instructions for the identification and assessment of the technical condition of the vehicle issued by the Director of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads pursuant to Articles 4 and 27 of the Regulation. This instruction specifies how to verify the integrity of the vehicle in a way that requires the professional to also verify the integrity and equipment of the vehicle according to the manufacturer’s data and according to the Regulation on Road Traffic Equipment and Equipment. All components must be installed, such as airbags, where they were originally installed in the vehicle, and were subsequently removed due to the activation of the collision and so on. The presence and integrity of individual systems shall be checked by carrying out checks. The operator must verify in particular the installation of exhaust emission control equipment and also whether this equipment ensures a prescribed exhaust emission level as defined in the Regulation on Road Traffic Equipment and Equipment. On the basis of the above, it can be argued that the limitation on the requirement for the installation of the relevant emission control equipment, I am talking about the limit value of pollution as set out in the EURO 2 level, is fully in line with the applicable rules and is also being implemented in a uniform manner. This does not mean, however, that in professional organizations we can exclude the possibility, as you yourself have stated, of corruption. Currently, they exercise professional supervision over the work of the professional organisations of the Vehicle Sector within the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Motorways. It is true that this monitoring, even in our opinion, is under-intensity, but it must be taken into account that there are currently only three professional workers in the sector who are barely following the needs of regular operational work. No major deficiencies have been identified in the current occasional monitoring of the operation of professional organisations. There are only minor derogations to be resolved in cooperation between the professional organisations and the vehicle approval authority. Let this not in any way excuse the relationship with control. That is why we will have to add a stone in this area to make this control more effective and to ensure that these organisations do what they have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u113	Thank you. Now will Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler set up a supplement? [[....]] Here you go, Mr. Gulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u114	In fact, there will be no complement, there will be more initiative, this is also a space for initiatives. I think you should really look at what this control has brought to these 28, now you say, professional organisations. This is because it is obvious that this Regulation on the assessment of the conformity of vehicles or those articles which you have referred to do not take into account, but only follow the letter of the European Directive. And if the vehicle has, of course, this after 1997, if it has not been harmonised before 1997, even though in 95 years a lot of vehicles have actually worked with EURO 2 standards in Europe, this also applies to motor cycles that are still a little bit ahead of time. But this is where we talked more about cars. Of course, there are a number of such vehicles whose life expectancy is significantly longer. That's where I put the RVs in the writing. I suggest that these things really get checked out, that people don't have any problems. Above all, people have problems because they refuse to do so and then run again from Pontius to Pilate to find someone to whom they can address a complaint where they can turn. Of course, usually these vehicles are already here, because buying, or this imports, under the terms, is now possible. And then things stand up and actually cause trouble. So I think, Mr. Minister, it would be good to review this and sort of harmonise it. There is, after all, the National Assembly, which then makes such decisions, and why it is not done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u116	I would just add, thank you for the initiative, and we will certainly take a closer look at this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u117	Thank you. Mrs Darja Lovtišar Bebler will ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister Dr. Virant! I have addressed to you the question: What were the reasons why in the Novela Law on the Public Sector Wage System, which is dealt with by an emergency procedure, you have also resorted to the provisions governing the advancement of public servants, especially top experts, as explained in the explanatory memorandum. How many of these top-notch experts do you know are now in public or state administration? And: How, or how, will public officials’ salaries in public administrations or public administrations be maintained as a result of extraordinary progress? In the section on promotion, it is possible to make progress in jobs with titles for a total of 10 pay grade. The amendment also proposes the possibility for a public servant to be classified for a particular reason and, subject to the consent given, at the time of employment, transfer or appointment to a title or a higher title for a salary class than the salary class of the job or title. These are quotes from the objectives you attribute to amendments to the Public Sector Wage System Act. The proposed novelty therefore introduces a whole range of new exemptions and derogations from the established wage system in the public sector. Does this not mean an unwarranted and excessive deviation from the original concept or system? It also follows from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, for example, Article 5 of the proposed amendment, that it is a failure to regulate the relationship between pay grade ranges by pay subgroup. However, the reasons for such a move in the proposed legal regime are not adequately explained and are not clear from the explanation. In the proposed Article 12, for example, you are introducing extraordinary progress for 5 pay grade, which I have already talked about. I do not think such a broad discretionary right of the Head of Organs is appropriate. And I am interested in, say, in particular: Which public servant, employed at the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia, did you have in mind when you said that such public servants at the Institute of RTV Slovenia could also advance for five wage classes, with the consent of the competent minister. The competent minister in this area, as far as I know, is the Minister of Culture. And I'd like to ask for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is a little unusual practice to discuss, in the context of the questions put forward, a proposal that is just before the hearing in the National Assembly. There is nothing wrong with this principle, but there will be plenty of time to discuss this particular article, which is expected to be discussed once in the middle of the next week on the home working body. However, I will give the main arguments for this solution today, as part of the answer to this question. The principles of the new wage system in the public sector, which is just before implementation, form principles of uniformity and transparency, i.e. all salaries in the public sector should be regulated in a uniform and transparent manner. It is about putting order in place in the public sector's salaries. The principle is to eliminate pay-as-you-go imbalances, so to settle some of the pay-as-you-go injustices that have arisen, some jobs have been classified too low compared to others. However, it is one of the principles that the Government wants to pursue in this new pay system, including flexibility, the possibility of better rewarding those who show better work results. The possibility of better awarding top public officials is those who are the best that contribute most to achieving the objectives of the organisation. And here's where we catch some balance on the payroll. The balance between order on the one hand, so that wages are not left to chaos and disorder, and on the other hand flexibility, it is said that the system would not be such that it would not allow us to keep quality people in the public sector because these people would escape us into the private sector. And there's a lot of flexibility in the new system. It is progress that will be strictly linked only to the assessment of performance, not like now, to the hunting and gathering of different points by attending seminars, etc., when it has been found that those who have a lot of time to attend seminars are progressing, those who work hard and do not have time to attend seminars are unable to make progress, but part of the salary for performance, the usual part, and the payment for increased work and the component part of it is also a provision that we now propose that a public servant can be assigned to a different job or title immediately for five salary classes higher than the starting point. Imagine that we have an expert from the economy, a bank, an insurance company, from anywhere that has a 20-year, 15-year high-end career in the private sector. And we want to get him to work in the public sector, in the state administration or elsewhere, we offer him a salary that is the starting point for a job, says he will have the kind of salary that a rookie has in such a job. It's not working. We just have to offer such a person a salary that will motivate him to work in the administration or elsewhere in the public sector - in health, in culture, in education, anywhere else, we will not be able to get quality people out of the economy. Which is very important for blowing up public administration. Of course, every such management mechanism, because it's a management mechanism, has its own risks. It can be abused, there is no doubt about it, but when we weigh whether it is better to establish a system that will either be completely rigid or take that risk and trust the managers of the public sector to use these levers in the way they need to - for the benefit of the public - for the benefit of the institution they run, they absolutely weigh it in person and also in the Government. That's what they say, we'll trust them, and we believe that this instrument will be used as it should be. After all, we have the support of all the public sector unions for this change, and I think it is not irrelevant. This means that they themselves do not see it as some kind of break-up of a wage relationship. I have to say this, about this kind of instrument already has a public administration, but not another part of the public sector. With this provision, we only extend what is in public administration, i.e. in ministries, administrative units, municipal administrations, today, even to education, health, culture and so on, which I think is right. About RTV in the second part [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u121	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u122	Thank you, Mr. President. I would also like to ask for an answer in this regard: Which public servants at the RTV Slovenia Institute have you had in mind. And I would answer that. It is not unusual to ask such questions on questions sent, because this law is also proposed under an urgent procedure where such changes should be so urgent and smaller that they can be adopted after this procedure. It is not clear from the explanation of the marriage what the poet was going to say. And I would stress this, very interesting things are happening in the area of the public sector wage system, as well as in the wider context of the situation and status of public servants. In the New Law on Public Servants, you propose to suspend compulsory professional examinations, to abolish the Administrative Academy, to unreasonablely reduce the requirements and conditions for service in the State or public administration. For example, the proposed Resortive Law, the Law on Foreign Affairs, reduces the criteria, for example, for the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and for non-professional diplomats who have so far had to meet the same conditions for appointment as professional diplomats and who have until now had to have at least university education and have to have two foreign languages, one of which is now being eliminated. With the proposed amendments to the Wages Act, you are introducing additional possibilities for new exceptional advances under the chairman's discretion. I can't help but think that these are preparations to ensure legal coverage in order to ensure that all your loyal people will be better paid before the autumn parliamentary elections. However, the new government will not be able to get rid of such workers if they are incompetent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u124	Thank you. This second part of the question was not announced, but it is also your constant question, or suppose, that everything we do is actually working with some evil purposes, namely, to employ loyal political people in the administration and so on. That's what we've been listening to all these years. I don't know how to answer that anymore. I'll base every provision of the law that changes on the argument, each one has its "reson". And you don't even know how to answer that, except by saying it, it's not true, we're not doing it to hire party loyal people. It's a pointless observation, completely. The end of the board's professional examinations will also be discussed at the hearing of the Civil Servants Act. I would just like to ask you the question, which successful, excellent company in an economy that has a highly developed human resources management system, but does it know anything that is at least about the same as our bureaucratic professional exam? But to get back to your basic question, you asked which RTV staff we had in mind on the possibilities of extraordinary advancement. Once again, this provision is in force and will apply to the whole public sector. The public sector comprises 160,000 civil servants, and we did not have any concrete thoughts, but we had in mind a management instrument that would enable the proper reward and motivation of those who work best, and also the acquisition of such personnel from the economy, from the private sector. It is not good to give the Minister of Culture the consent to such progress in the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia. I agree with that. Here was a provision that, I think, even the unions missed, and then they warned us about it, and we will fix it. This consent will be given by the Program Council. Throughout the whole payroll law there is a somewhat special status of the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia, not a special status in the sense that wages should be otherwise regulated, but that the Government and the Minister should be excluded from wage regulation in the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia in order to ensure their independence.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u125	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mrs. Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With the first amendments to the Civil Servants Act, you have actually shown yourself where you measure and you know that those first amendments to the Civil Servants Act were aimed at ensuring loyal political people in the most responsible positions in the state administration, and so please don't blame me if I also see these proposed changes in this light because they are, in fact, unsystematic and actually disrupting the system, and you can guarantee as much as you want them not to. We have come to know some bad years ago that there are also different developments across individual ministries in this direction, in order to prepare new job systemisations, in the sense that workers move for a certain period of time to new jobs that have been set up for an indefinite period of time, and from these ministries have warned us that they are also for such purposes, that is, before the elections, to provide loyal political people with jobs for an indefinite period of time. However, to be concerned about this situation, of course, it is understandable that you yourself have said that some 130,000 to 150,000 people are concerned with these laws. I think that, despite the fact that you have said that this proposal for amendments and amendments to the law will now be under consideration in the National Assembly, but this is also a broader issue in relation to other laws affecting this area. Therefore, I think it would be appropriate to have a broader debate in the National Assembly on this answer, or rather on the situation we are facing. As for the public servants of the RTV Public Service, I am also very surprised that this kind of mistake, as you say, could have been smuggled into the law, our former brothers would have said, quite by chance. I do not believe in these cases and would therefore suggest that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we hold a broader debate on these issues or specifically on this Minister's response. By the way, Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u127	Thank you. On the proposal by Ambassador Darje Lavtijar Bebler to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to her question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow in the context of the votes. Mr Milan Petek will now ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u128	Thank you, President. A nice welcome to all the ministers present! The facts about the operation of Slovenian railways show that from the once positive trend of business results, the issue has turned fundamentally into a negative trend, at least that is our assessment. We estimate that this is due to the amended or adopted legislation in this Parliament, which has been "forced" and requested by the President of the Government, some railway unions, Secretary Verlic, and implemented by your predecessor, Mr Bozič. It is not your fault, of course, but you are now the one who is continuing this policy. And that's what he's worried about. One radio broadcast presented to the public the fact that EUR 17.8 million since the sale of properties in Nova Gorica was spent on the regular payment of salaries and the regression of railway workers. This in itself would not worry if it did not point to a situation that in fact threatens the long-term development of the rail system. I will not guess whether the land owned by Slovenian railways and sold gladly is necessary for the further development of the rail system, or whether it will sometimes be costly to buy it back. What is possible and what is worth selling should be specified in the national rail development programme in Slovenia. This programme, despite the assurances given within the four years of this Government's mandate, will obviously not be before the public. Therefore, in your concern for the development of Slovenian railways and the Slovenian rail system, I ask you the following questions, Mr Minister: Is there a plan for the disposal of all land owned by Slovenian railways? Are they professionally determined that further development of Slovenian railways or the further development of the entire transport system of the Republic of Slovenia will not be required? And which authority has verified or approved the sales programme? What are these lands? What is the total area of these lands? What is the total estimated value of these lands today? The second question is related to the management of Slovenian railways. It would normally be normal for a candidate to present his business recovery programme as a prerequisite for taking over the management of this company. This was not the case, so I ask you: Since the leadership has been appointed a while ago, and when will the public be presented with at least a Slovenian Railway Business Plan for this year if we cannot expect a serious rehabilitation programme or even a Slovenian Railway Development Programme? So these are things that may indeed belong in the business sphere, but they concern developments in this area, and all of Slovenia, therefore I believe that the Minister can give an appropriate answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for asking, too. So, with the 1999 Rail Transport Act, formerly single railway properties were divided into parts which, under the law, acquired state-owned public goods status and the part that remained with the company Slovenske železnice d.d., now of course Slovenske železnice d.o.o. On the common list of land is by status on 31. 12. 2007 owned by the Republic of Slovenia, public railway infrastructure, public goods, 44 million square metres of land, that is 94.17% owned by Slovenian railways d.o.o. and 2.7 million square metres of land, which is 5.82%. Lands that serve the development of rail transport or land on which the development of railway infrastructure has been planned in the past and have already been acquired by Slovenian railways have public goods status. Public railway infrastructures are owned by the Republic of Slovenia and can only be sold by Slovenian Railways as a statutory public railway infrastructure manager. Of the 5,82% of the land remaining owned by Slovenian railways, because they are not an integral part of the public railway infrastructure or are not envisaged for the development of public railway infrastructure, they are in accordance with the rail internal rules for the disposal of real property which governs the sale of real estate in the same way as the national regulation, they add those which Slovenian railways do not need and are previously covered in the annual real estate sale plan. Lands owned by Slovenian Railways are sold in accordance with the real estate sale plan under the business plan for each business year, which was reviewed and adopted by the Supervisory Board. In 2007 the largest sale of land in Novi Gorica was made and in 2008 the realisation of the signed capital entry contract in Emonica, after which Slovenian railways invested land as a real investment. In both cases, it is a matter of disinvesting that part of the property that is not involved in the underlying business. Sales were not realised due to liquidity pressures, therefore due to salary payments as you yourself stated. This is also confirmed by data showing that the debt situation decreased from EUR 264 million in early 2007 to EUR 252 million at the end of 2007. It's for the financing of investments. Among these are the more important new technical centre of Moste, where technological activities will be carried out on vehicles. In the coming years, Slovenian railways do not plan to sell larger land areas. The management of Slovenian Railways regularly reports annual and annual performances to the Supervisory Board and to the public at similar press conferences. The following week, a press conference will also present the results of the first trimester of 2008. In the final phase, however, the preparation of a strategic development plan to be presented to the public in June 2008 is expected, i.e. next month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u131	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr Minister, I have some information to say that it is useful and serves as a clearer idea of what is happening on Slovenian railways, although I must say that some things do not satisfy me. I think that the National Programme for the Development of the Slovenian Railway Infrastructure is such an important act, such an important document that it should have priority and should also be based on the strategy for the development of the Slovenian Railways. We will see when this will be presented in June, or only solutions will be provided in this document. My supplementary question in this regard is precisely what you called "entering Emonica". Given that there is a very important road through Ljubljana through which there are many trains, both passenger and freight, which are simply not able to travel or use these infrastructures properly in Ljubljana under Emonica. I therefore wonder: Are some logistics centres, which must be established in Slovenia, envisaged where these international transit routes will take place - are they still in the centre of Ljubljana, or will freight transport be carried out, and will this Ljubljana experience a railway undertaking in which this will actually be technically possible? And I'm curious when we talked about land, and so is the answer: Is it in the context of this development that this freight traffic from the centre of Ljubljana is to move somewhere to rob? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u134	Thank you very much. For a little while. As far as Emonya's concerned. It's always a question of deepening - yes, deepening - no. In short, an in-depth is envisaged. So it's a possibility of deepening. As for the second question, when you said - the mandatory route, that the mandatory route is also intended to avoid transit to the centre of Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u135	Thank you. Mrs Maria Possonec will now ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. All present and welcome. According to known data in Slovenia, 200,000 people live below the minimum of living. The maximum share of family expenses is expenditure on food. I wonder: With what measures will the Ministry mitigate the consequences of the high rise in food prices compared to the purchase prices of agricultural products so that we can offer a decent life and a healthy diet to all residents, children and everyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u138	Thank you very much. In Slovenia, according to my information, the share of food in the total household cost is on average 15% to 20% and is comparable to similar countries in the European Union. On the other hand, this is a matter which, unfortunately to a large extent, is beyond the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture, but perhaps some information in this regard. In particular, information on the stabilisation, the necessary stabilisation of the prices of certain agricultural raw materials. First of all, I would also like to say that in essence, in the 15 years of the fall, certain agricultural raw materials experienced disproportionately last year, and I agree with this, too quickly, jumpy growth. Above all, here I am referring to cereals that have also reached 100 per cent or more of the growth of agricultural products, prices. In fact, it turns out that this high growth is not actually good, not for the first stage, but mainly for farmers who had something out of it, it is not for a farmer, it is not for a consumer. It turned out, of course, that this high price growth of individual agricultural raw materials is conditioned by some global changes in supply and also demand at the global level where Slovenia is involved and that we have actually three types of crises. We have a high price and food crisis, we have a high energy price crisis and, of course, we also have a climate crisis or climate change crisis. In fact, it turned out that these high food prices hit the pockets of the inhabitants themselves. If we look at the comparative ratio, this February, last year, the prices of agricultural inputs, that is to say inputs for production, have increased at about the same level as the prices of agricultural raw materials themselves, but I stress that the prices of agricultural raw materials are virtually the same as those of input prices. The fact is that the real prices of agricultural products increased by about 8% last year, while retail prices increased by a little more, which proves that in Slovenia, in addition to these global causes, we have some domestic, own: the rigid market structure in the agri-food chain, and in particular unrelated producers. In this respect, the Ministry has repeatedly tried to move forward and has also referred to so-called vertical chains, where we have tried to influence, together with industry, trade and producers, that everyone is aware of these very serious situations. What can only the Ministry do? The Ministry can do the most to increase food supply. And in this sense, Slovenia was one of those members of the European Union - and it is necessary to know that we are, in particular, the operator of the common agricultural policy - which has done a lot on this. We immediately removed the mandatory powder last year or put it to zero, allowing, in fact, additional mobilization of the land for production. We have increased milk quotas by 2% and thus contributed to the halting of the prices of milk and milk products, and this is a fact. We have abolished import duties for cereals, except for oats. We have also introduced specific measures in the field of pigs for storage and compensation for pigmeat. In particular, we are working on a programme for pigs to solve the difficult situation in Slovenia. The European Commission and the world's houses also estimate that prices are likely to cool down this year, while agricultural raw materials themselves will remain at a higher level than they were in the past. I would also like to say that, according to the Statistical Office, it is likely that in Slovenia this year, if the normal situation is, a much larger area will be planted with cereals. We estimate that for almost a fifth of the areas planted with wheat this year and for a good tenth more [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u139	Thank you. The next minister, who is supposed to be asked the question of the Member, is absent. The Minister of Culture apologized. Mrs. Shirca, do you still want to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u140	And get a response at the next session. Let me begin by stressing, Mr President of the National Assembly, that the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs has lost sight of the importance. Today, we have postponed this part of the meeting, which is devoted to parliamentary issues, to this day due to the absence of most ministers on Monday, but now most have been absent even in the morning. This means that there is some distortion of the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs. It was also a discreditation to ask my Member's question concerning the situation in relations in the Ljubljana Opera. The competent services rejected him if it was a local issue and regardless of my insistence that Mr Jazbec's cemetery was limited to local space and Opera covered the entire Slovenian cultural public, much had to be negotiated until it was said that the Minister himself had ordered this issue at the last meeting of the Committee on Culture, which reviewed the implementation of the National Programme for 2006 and in 2008. In short, my question is to the Minister: Is his claim that construction, renovation and situation in the Opera in Ljubljana is happening brilliantly, as he himself claimed? For the statement and practice speak entirely of a different situation. In fact, Opera has long gone beyond the planned investment, so the investment has doubled. Instead of a finished building here, we're called a deep pit and we're kind of [[...]] Then could I make a deal, please, outside the hall for your arrangements! In short, Opera is some kind of scene that can be called "the battle on the esophagus", swallowing money into infinity, the pit is getting deeper, more expensive and the end of the part is moving away, even though it should have happened by now. The second question, however, which relates to the Opera itself, is: Does the contribution of state resources, this is more than 2 billion a year or 8.3 million euros per year, achieves the purpose of Opera's operation and is management competent? In view of the fact that it landed at the lowest level since 1918, since even in the time of Austro-Hungarian times more prime ministers and more activities have been carried out than now.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u141	Thank you. The Minister will answer your question at the next meeting. Mr Srečko Friend will now ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. For better understanding, the iron road is somehow becoming more and more similar to the highways, releasing international routes or actually granting security certificates. And Minister of Transport, please, if you can answer me: How could Rail Cargo Austria get a security certificate under very strange conditions? Indeed, it is a threat of national interest, which is the safety and orderliness of rail transport, and it is quite plainly said that this Austrian company, which today, according to its opinion, will also be able to protect or not protect cargo, to maintain the wagon technique at its discretion, once again - to invest or not to invest in maintenance, had the opportunity to transport cargo in our corridors on an equal footing. It's an open question whether or not it's buy-in, corruption yes or no. For we know that instructions have been given to you to sign, which regulate this in an uncoordinated version, and coordination on the system of Slovenian Railways has taken place. The fact is that, as Minister, we should be aware that the actual cost of insurance and maintenance is the highest cost per net tonne-kilometre and that we are giving a foreigner the opportunity to do what he wants in the area of our railways, which have a special configuration and differ in many ways from other infrastructures in Europe. I wonder why, despite the fact that we have already established a transport directive for one year, after Mr Kangler's extraordinary request, your client colleague, who then demanded that it be in Maribor and even conditioned it, if it is not in Maribor, we will not adopt and confirm the Railway Safety Act. One year you have this directive already set up, and this department is not running any project, nor is it occupied technically or you have now appointed a director to my appeal. The Agency, which is supposed to care until the Directorate is established, also does not have a director and projects stand. However, you have the most money approved through the guarantee laws in Slovenia, because the National Assembly has given you the opportunity to approach a thorough updating of the rail transport system and, of course, to start carrying out projects that you say are in progress. This is how we stand for projects such as the duality of the Koper-Divača track, we have signal-safety systems that are not maintained and new locomotives cannot drive longer than the Wall Bridge because there is no basic pressure satisfied. Please tell me why you're doing this, irresponsible of course, even with state money.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you very much for the questions. For questions that have not been announced before, I just need to see what's going on, especially with regard to Rail Cargo. However, I can generally say that everything that is going on is going in accordance with the rules and in accordance with EU directives, because it cannot be otherwise. So, some demagogy here to run and talk about some corruption and I don't know what it's all about, I think a little bit about the hair drawn and I would ask you, Commissioner, that you're a little bit more in the future, I'll say, susceptible. As for your question of the mission, which you have asked me in accordance with the established procedure of 9. 4. I also replied to you after a well-established procedure. The written question consisted of a series of sub-questions, which had the same objective, only then wondered when I would actually start dealing with a pressing problem that has plagued Slovenian railways for years. How will I prevent increasing economic damage in rail transport resulting from the lack of basic development and the restoration of Slovenian railways. As you are asking today, I must tell you that the only correct answer to this question is to provide funding for the projects envisaged. The main financial resources may, however, be the State budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which is adopted annually by the National Assembly, the grant of financial resources from European funds, in this case mostly from cohesion policy, cohesion policy and private work finance. So, of course, I'm talking about the possibility of a public-private partnership. We are currently implementing 33 different projects, which are all related to the modernisation, renovation or new construction of public railway infrastructure and no de stand, as you said. It's a complete lie. None of the projects stand. And the progress of all these 33 projects, which I also made clear when I took over the function that I was not satisfied with the management of these projects, I personally monitor in the weekly coordination where these projects are reported to me. And I am glad that, also because of this intensive monitoring of these projects, we have recently received building permits to modernise the existing Koper-Divača track. We've taken a big step forward. I'm glad. So now we have an open road, that, as promised, we will start this year. I hope, of course, that there will be no 100 million different complaints about the invitation to tender, that we will start this year by updating this line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! If you think you can tell an MP anything, you're wrong. It's not demagogy and there's no lie. One year you have established a directive that has not yet begun project management. And you've forgiven people on Slovenian railways, bohemian because they cooperated in an open manner with a foreigner who obtained a concession or safety certificate. The Lord is on the road. And the fact is that corruption, such corruption, is present at the agency, because the profession has been coordinated and all executive services have given their opinion on what criteria security certificates should actually be shared. You've got to sign an unsigned version of the instruction that dictates this. Maybe that's what you even asked them to give you this uncoordinated version. And that's why I'm talking because it's big millions that will land in private pockets. I'm deceiving that this is a suspicion of clientelism and corruption. And when you talk about projects that are running, Europe has already given us millions of euros to build a second track years ago, and you have put these millions into use. You'll probably bring them back because you don't have any projects. The signal security technique, respected minister, has been in operation for over a decade, you have been talking to Siemens, who is your strategic partner and locomotives are also purchased from Siemens, but they are still standing from the Wall Bridge because there is not enough basic pressure to drive. And when you talk about projects running, you're told by the Ministry that it's a minister whose left hand can sweep into the corner and what's said to him, that's what he'll do. That's you at the Ministry. I ask you, when are you going to start dealing responsibly with what the National Assembly has instructed you to do, start using the money we have adopted in the guarantee law and start to ensure the safety and order of rail transport? Trains for you [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u148	I thank you for your opinion, Mr Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend, please. [[The microphone's not working.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u150	This is how I'll be if you give me enough time, please. I must have been shut down by now, security. Dear Minister, you can say whatever you want. This is allowed under the Constitution. Freedom of speech, as it is said, is also written there. But you can't hide the facts. But the facts are very cruel. On Slovenian railways, the infrastructure is very old, it is not being renewed and the National Assembly, I have been silent for a year, I was happy when we adopted guarantee laws for credits, it has been one year since what it has approved very large sums of money, I also owed future generations, so that some projects will be implemented immediately. And it is your responsibility and you are the irresponsible person who only sees other segments of transport in the public sectors, including in the search for strategic partners, Germans, and I do not know who else to make sure that the fifth and tenth trans-European corridor is as it should be. You didn't do this until today. You don't deal with railways in your line of work, and that's going down. You can say whatever you want, the fact is there is a first anarchy in this area. And because such anarchy is in the field of rail transport, there is also a threat to the safety and order of transport, a respected minister. It's not just babbling enough. Get to work. We will also lose the cargo that flows to us on the so-called Pontebian track. The economic damage is greater from day to day, and you do not realize it. Of course, Madam President, I say all of this in the context of this, because I will demand, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, an extended debate in the National Assembly, and allow me to say it to the end. The Minister does not consider it worthy to answer the supplementary question. Tell me, why doesn't the agency have a director, why didn't the department start working? It's been a year since it was established. But it's set up to run projects. None of the serious projects are yet being implemented. Is it not in our national interest to do this Slovenia in the way it plays - transit, transistive, traffic, because that is also the role we are in in such a geostrategic situation in Europe? And that's all you're missing. The second track will be built in 2015. Please! We don't need it then. By then, the cargo will be around Slovenia. And that is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like - and also because of other issues raised by Members here, railway issues, on the subject of railways - to have an extensive debate in the National Assembly. It's enough of this sloppy relationship. You only see trucks as if there are no other means of transport in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I have to say, because of the magnetogram that Mr. Lucky Friend spoke. The proposal by Mr Srečko Friends to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport to his question, will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mrs Majda Zupan will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, colleague and colleague! The Slovenian woodworking industry has been deep in the crisis for some time now, but this problem remains in the shadow of textile and leather industry. She put forth great efforts to keep her alive until now, with the basic raw material, wood, and a good dollar exchange. In most of the companies in crisis, the majority owner of the country is via Kad. The fact is that human and financial Slovenian forestry is failing is without adequate personnel, visions and programmes. In this case, the State has not proved to be a good owner, has not sought to connect, merge, find new opportunities, other owners or new strategic partners. Some companies received help from the state, others did not. Some have been recapitalised, others may be, the third is threatened with liquidation. We may not care whether in Slovenia we process wood for the final product or export it as a raw material to Italy, Austria or even China. We have proven many times that we know, based on a long tradition with modern procedures in Slovenia, to produce quality products, which American, Canadian, German and other buyers highly value. Knowledge and quality are far ahead of Eastern Europe in Slovenia. As a result of the Government's direction regarding the withdrawal of the economy, Kad as owner must also withdraw from these companies. I believe that the country should seriously and responsibly check what is happening to its property, to its citizens, and also to its forests and energy. Dear Minister, I ask you: Does the Republic of Slovenia have an adopted strategy for the timber processing industry, in particular under conditions of severe global competition? Does the woodworking industry have a place under restructuring conditions, or will the state just let companies like KLI Logatec, Lipa Ajdovščina, Novoles, The Watchtower and similar ones die before our eyes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u154	Thank you very much, distinguished Member for your question. I think some very important parts of my answer have already been pointed out in your questions. In fact, the first, very important conclusion I would like to make is that we have some bright examples in the woodworking industry in Slovenia and we have some bad ones. Thus, it depends in particular on companies themselves, on their own management, on economic companies, how they know and how they can exploit their position in a challenging European and global market. For a long time, we are no longer living in a planned economy to guide the functioning of businesses or sectors, but we are adopting a number of strategies, measures and action programmes to promote entrepreneurship and the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. In Slovenia, we have decided not to develop sectoral strategies, i.e. the textile sector strategy, the timber sector strategy and so on. However, we have guidance on how to raise, and we also have a concrete programme on how to boost entrepreneurship and the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, and the Government has therefore adopted a Programme of Action to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness for the period 2007-2013, based on four key pillars. The first pillar is the promotion of entrepreneurship, the second pillar is the knowledge of the economy, that is, how to integrate knowledge into production processes, in specific products or services, that is, how, with the development of innovation, technological development of enterprises, to upgrade their competitiveness and third, how to upgrade financial resources and funding opportunities for this. A company in the forestry sector is very clear about its development and market opportunities, it has clear programmes and is therefore also successful and has also managed to take advantage of the many calls we are issuing at the Ministry, either to promote business integration towards the development of new products, the development of new technologies. Some companies have used calls and financial support to purchase new machines or new technologies or "kuowhow" and so on. Therefore, some companies are also in difficulty because of, probably, lack of their own vision or because of a variety of other reasons that arise either from their technological process or from their past business decisions. We also have guaranteed aid schemes for firms in difficulty to restructure, to abandon some problematic programmes, non-performing programmes and to put the company on a healthy footing, that it is long-term viable for survival and competitiveness. A number of companies from the timber sector have received these support. Now allow me to return to the specific forestry sector. The biggest competitive weakness of the Slovenian woodworking industry is inefficiencies, fragmentation and some unabated desire for integration and cooperation in those segments where this integration could generate the most synergies. I'm thinking mostly about getting wood here. Slovenian foresters are in the process of purchasing wood, which we know Slovenia is rich with it, uncompetitive with foreign competition. That is why I have also participated on several occasions in the association of forestry which deals with this and has called for cooperation, integration and competitive upgrades. Another important issue is that we have drawn up or have already prepared concrete measures so that wood as a raw material for the wood processing industry will not be used competitively for energy. So that wood that can be used in the woodworking industry will not be subsidized as an energy. The third thing I think we should do more is design, "design." One is the basic cost price of the product, and the other is the knowledge that is incorporated into the product, not only through technological solutions, but also through "design". So, Slovenia has opportunities in this area, it has advantages, and so the country through the authorities also wants everyone [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for your answer. If you allow, I would complement and be a little more specific in this area I get questions in my office. How do you, as a minister, see the role of the state and state services in terms of aid, specifically KLI Logatcu? Is it possible that the preparation for a buy-in for this company, what is left of it, and it seems that the state's assets have somehow gone up in smoke? What's going to happen to the workers? Are training programmes ready? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u157	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u158	Thank you very much. See, the Ministry of Economy is, of course, not directly owned or entitled to state ownership in KLI Logatco, and therefore direct owners are also responsible in a particular case. However, as I said, if the company gets in trouble at the Ministry of Economy, we have the opportunity to assist these companies in restructuring and in further development. However, there is an active role on the part of the company. The company has to recognize when this time is. The company must come with a specific restructuring programme. In short, the company is the one who is convinced, and in this case the Ministry of Economy and Government as a result, whether its vision of the exit from the crisis is acceptable, at least in the medium term, if not sustainable in the long term. And in that case, we can also give state aid both to maintain jobs and to restructure production. These are the right ways and, of course, I am available with the team that is in the State Aid Sector in our ministry to face this concrete project and also to help it, if that is yet to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Interior, who is absent. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u160	The microphone's not working.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u161	[[The microphone's not working.]] I'm hanging up for five minutes and I'm asking the technical services to check out the devices. Oh, now it's working.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u162	I realize I'm Maja Potrat, but I'm speaking from the Member State of Mirana Potrcha, so the magnetogram will make it perfectly clear. Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I intended to ask the Ministers of Home Affairs and Transport a common question, which is related to the implementation of the New Law on Road Traffic Safety. During the first days after the entry into force of this Act, we were able to monitor in public and national media the precise disclosure of data on the detention of alcoholised drivers and lay down laws on the frequency of implementation controls. It turned out that they had pointed out that it was a very free thought that driving and alcohol were compatible, and among our drivers, however, quite often. Now I have not noticed these warnings, but I ask: What about some of the activities that both ministries are planning? In particular, the Ministry of Transport, together with representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and Head of the Road Traffic Prevention and Training Council, presented preventive posters and brochures. It's spelled "the law restricts it to protect," or boils it like someone reads. In addition to the posters we see and meet in different places, there is also a brochure in circulation, which can be traced on websites. I wonder if this brochure will be available on any special occasion, or will it just have to be on the website and read there? I would like to know what further steps will be taken by the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior in order to increase road safety in addition to the consistent supervision of road safety, the glue of preventive posters and the publication of the brochure? The possibilities are many, and modern electronic media are probably attractive enough. And I really ask: If the brochure is intended for drivers and drivers, where will it be available, on what special occasion, when we take the exam or what else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Transport, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much too, ladies and gentlemen, for the question. In parallel with the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, we have also prepared a preventive or media support plan for the implementation of the law at the Ministry of Transport. On this basis, awareness-raising activities with posters, as you yourself mentioned, are being carried out in the press, with some topics: speed, alcohol, belt, wider, Internet use, and a 1,700-published radio video. In addition to the media activities, the Ministry of Transport coordinates the implementation of the Road Safety Framework Plan in 2008 and 2009, which was prepared on the basis of proposals from the ministries, the Inter-ministerial Working Group on Coordination and Control of the Implementation of the Resolution in the National Road Traffic Safety Programme for the period 2007-2011, the "Communication for Greater Security" and other entities carrying individual actions and activities, and adopted at the 151st meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, 21st meeting of the Ministry of Transport. 12. 2007 I must point out that the adoption of the CVCP in the field of road safety has not resulted in the completion of the work. We have already set up four inter-ministerial expert groups that are preparing new proposals for road safety, namely the Drivers Act, the Motor Vehicles Act, the Traffic Rules Act, the Powers and Penal Sanctions Act and the Public Road Act. It is, of course, a change and a complement. With this, of course, we want this law, which we ourselves have found here in the National Assembly and, in fact, we all know that it is outdated, to put on some new modern foundations. According to some data, most accidents occur at the originator's place of residence - approximately 65%. According to our data, the most problematic statistical regions in northeastern Slovenia are the Pomurska and Podravska regions. The Savina region is also very close to them. With a view to improving the situation in the most critical regions, we have organised separate meetings at the Ministry of Transport with representatives of these regions, where we have agreed on concrete measures to be taken at the regional level. Thus, we specifically agreed on measures to be taken by road managers, police officers and the municipal councils for prevention and training. But let me take this opportunity to say some of the numbers that the new law is actually the results of the new law. Speaking of traffic accidents and comparing April numbers - May this year was April 3516 and May 19th, so only 608, that we had this month, thank God, only 4 dead, compared to April, when there were 21 or May of last year when there were 23 of them. The number of accidents with injuries is even higher, only 137 compared to last year's 1171. Okay, we're talking about numbers until the 19th and we only had 22 serious injuries in May, compared to last year's 138. In short, I think that this law has already achieved its purpose, and I hope, of course, that with good control, we will be able to keep these numbers at such a level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u166	Thank you. If you print this booklet, whose cover I have in my hands and says "The law restricts it to protect", then this booklet is intended primarily for learning about the changes made by the Road Safety Act. Perhaps it would be helpful to pay more attention to clarifying the driver’s alcoholization limits. Because the units are very different and new measurement of alcoholization, which allows 0.24 milligrams of alcohol per litre of breathed air, now the half value of what they were before, as long as measured by the resin, is used to look like 0.5 and so on, to place more emphasis on these things, which are novelty, not only in regulations, but also in the new way of measurement. I'd like to draw your attention to one more thing. Since they are given greater powers by the new law, the issue of education for editors just before retirement is likely to be a question of the effectiveness of such education, which is more for Minister Matei, however. I remember two very effective TV videos. Wouldn't it show some new TV videos to look for? Let's say more and more frequent intervention by intervention vehicles, handling in such cases, more frequent behaviour in circulars, problems posed by too slow drivers, which represent a second extreme in doing so. So, about these things that are good to know. I think we have some good experience in promoting security, and I would like to see more of this in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u168	Thank you very much. In short, with all these initiatives, of course, I absolutely agree. And in a short time, we had two preventive actions, when the sweats were spinning, we didn't stop here, and we're moving on, we're preparing the following. One of the following will also be in connection with railway crossings, with which we know we have, unfortunately, problems. In short, we will certainly continue this work here, which, according to my assessment at least recently, has been effective mainly with these preventive actions. But here too, the media have done their part, which very, very well covered the matter. As for the book, I forgot to answer your question earlier. We share these booklets in our preventive, so to speak, acacias in different areas. We recently had one such safety event in Pomour on this site, and we shared these booklets there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš will ask the Minister of Finance a question, which is excusedly absent. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I must say, Mr President, that I have not received the apologies of the Minister of Finance, despite the fact that we have postponed the questions of Members precisely because of the announced absence. It is said that the National Assembly has adapted to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia because it has been announced that more than half of the ministerial assembly will be missing on Monday. Today, interestingly, the Minister of Finance is gone again. I would like to remind you, as well as the Government, that the Government does not answer the questions of Members only and only Members because of our whims, that these are questions that come from people, and the answers are probably for people. So to those people who are finally warning that they are in an unsustainable situation because of the actions of the government of Janez Janša. And to those people who are responsible or comforted by the President of the Government, Janez Janša, that Slovenia has achieved the highest economic growth within the European Union in 2007. It's strange that poverty is increasing in our country. I say that one of the important culprits is the poor system, the social system, the pension system, the tax system, including Minister Bajuk, who is unfortunately not among us today and will not be able to answer the questions. During the pre-election period in 2004, Minister Bajuk reads the previous tycoon government, but immediately after the beginning of his post, he relieves the capital owners, in other words, the tycoons, who are so keen to read them. At the same time, Minister Bajuk changed the income scale. From the five rates of taxation, he introduced three stages. In other words, this means that a problem has arisen in the large segment of the middle class of people, because these people have fallen to the highest level of taxation due to Bayuk's tax reform. The middle layer has virtually disappeared since, according to the 2007 Income Decisions, the middle layer is the most taxed or taxed, such as those designated by that government by the tycoons. It's not just that. It is a matter of a new, Bajuk reform, for example, including a Mura worker who receives only a minimum wage, due to the legal regression paid, that falls under the obligation to pay the tax, even though he has only a minimum wage. And after the new income reform and the income decision, for example, even a person who received only €3,929 in 2007 during the whole year must pay 28,94 euros on the basis of an income decision to the country. I ask: Is this system really fair?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The absent minister will answer your question the second time. Mr. Pache, procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u172	Thank you very much. A procedural question to you, Mr President, has been said that today, despite Mr Bayuk's prediction, is justifiably absent, and I would, of course, like to know which apology this is, given that we have not heard it from the Members. What is this task that, unlike being present at the government's meeting, says he doesn't have to be present at the National Assembly? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Pece, as Vice-President of this National Assembly, you certainly know how the leadership is taking place and how the meeting of the National Assembly is taking place when questions are raised. I accepted, as you usually do, and the others who run this National Assembly at the time of the meeting, that this is the fact that, in the morning we read it, which of the ministers is absent, and is absent all day, or who is absent only a certain time. It was written this morning and it was accurately written that the Minister of Finance would be absent from 12 hours and 30 minutes in advance. I can't give you a more detailed explanation, because you know very well, because you wouldn't explain it to me in more detail. Thank you. Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u174	Comrade Clavor, God forbid you take this as a criticism. I'm in charge of the session myself. I would only like to point out before the Members present, and especially before the Slovenian public that there is no excuse for this, of course. And no, the leadership of the National Assembly should not give any pause to such evading of work. Mr Bajuk has not yet allowed himself to be absent from the government's meeting for excusable or unjustifiable reasons. The meetings of the Government are closed to the public and there are all ministers present from beginning to end. When they arrive in front of the TV screens, when they come before the National Assembly, the National Assembly tolerates their absence, despite the fact that these are the people who run the tax policy, the economic policy of this country, which tailors everything, and the National Assembly reaffirms their absence: it is justifiably absent from the meeting of the National Assembly. Well, my criticism, Mr. Klavora, is not on you. My criticism goes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and to the silence given to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Pece. I hope everything you said in that magnetogram will be. Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister of Economy a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The problems of business relations with SAZAS, this is with the Association of Composers, Authors and Publishers for the Protection of Copyrights of Slovenia, we have been warned by the Association of Cultural Homes of Regional Meaning a long time ago. Similar problems are expected in many other cultural societies and youth centres. Other music users, or those who pay SAZAS compensation for copyrights such as traders, electronic media, craftsmen and innkeepers, pointed out these problems. Due to the irregularity of this area, they merged in the action "Silence to Fair Tariffs" and called on their members to remove radio and television broadcasters from their business premises. Thus, in some businesses, music has already been stopped. In cultural homes and radio stations and televisions, only music that is not copyrighted should be broadcast. Last year's increase in remuneration tariffs is expected to be 60% SAZAS. Some music creators are also expected to be dissatisfied, as they are not supposed to be adequately involved in the allocation of copyright compensation. They also point to difficulties in the Chamber of Commerce and Trade, and above all to the Office of Intellectual Property, which supervises or operates under the Copyright Act. However, the Office cannot act on certain infringements due to the shortcomings of the Copyright Act. At least that's what they said. Minister Mag. Andrej Visiak, who is responsible for this area, I ask: Will he take action in the face of complications by setting tariffs under Article 156 of the Law, since the collective organisation for the protection of copyright in the public is manifesting great will and intransigence in financial transactions and in the management of funds collected from copyright rights? Mr. Minister Mag. I would like to thank the visionary in advance for his reply and, if necessary, I will also ask a question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I've been following this issue for several years, not just the complications of recent times. That is why we have also drafted a law within the Government, which has made it important to upgrade and have enabled these problems to be resolved, with no interest in this in the past. In some ways, this also quietly protected the will of some organisations at the expense of users. I'll be very specific. Indeed, under international European rules, the regulation of relations and tariffs between copyright organisations or associations and users is governed by agreement between them. Here the state must not arbitrate with its own bureaucratic authoritarian approach. This is a typical right arising from intellectual property that users, those who listen to, pay or mediate. It is an agreed relationship and the previous solution, before our change, a change under this government, maintained the status quo in the event of a dispute and did not foresee a way out of the situation. So if someone no longer agreed to the solution, he wanted to lower either the tariffs, either change, or put them on another base, and if the other party disagreed, it remained the way it was and there was no way to see the solution. This was a hopeless situation, which was also fostered by the parliamentary group from which you come. At that time, this was the solution, and we opposed it, and we have therefore enacted that in the event that there is a dispute between users and authors on the solution of the decision, an independent expert body consisting of representatives of one, representatives of the other and important legal authority which is presiding and which, and such a copyright council, is also the one which determines the dispute in the event of a dispute. Member of the Commission, in the event of a particular dispute, proceedings shall be brought before the Copyright Council, which shall be in the final stage. And I expect the Copyright Council to find a just solution that will also regulate relations between the so-called SAZAS and the users of the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce. We have a paradox that SAZAS voluntarily increased tariffs. This is what is said to be past the agreement with users and is the tendency of SAZAS to raise tariffs and the tendency of users to lower tariffs. And even I fully agree with you, even such illogicalities, that tariffs are charged to those who really operate on an extremely non-profit basis and even charitable purposes and so on. So, Government, Ministry in this area based on 156. He doesn't have a copyright law and he doesn't want to have jurisdiction. Therefore, once again, an agreement between these is crucial, but if there is no agreement, an expert judgement. I know that my first initiative had already fallen in this mandate when we proposed arbitration and then we bypassed the solution with the Copyright Council because I knew that these problems and that many Members had voted against it at the time, rejected the previous solution, which could probably have prevented these problems, because it was almost identical to this one, only that it was not called arbitration but the Copyright Council. So, respectable, I am convinced that the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is some kind of marriage, as well as a European harmonised document or law that provides protection for authors and, on the other hand, the protection of users. Once again, an agreement between them is crucial, if this agreement is not available, an effective way of determining who is right in this agreement and I believe that the Copyright Council will in a relatively short period of time also judge this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Yesterday we were able to monitor the meeting of representatives of SAZAS and musicians in Odessa, and it was this very confrontation that showed that something was very wrong. Some musicians, such as Musician Predin, even said that SAZAS should be transformed. Then, for example, in a press report, they showed some sums to be paid for copyright in business and inn restaurants, while the representative of SAZAS showed diametrically the opposite, I am talking about comparative data with related and neighbouring and other European countries. So, how can one talk like that, another speak like that? I guess we'll have to cut through the law here, too. In addition, he drew attention to these problems by the Office of Intellectual Property, whose representative said in a press article that representatives of the Office had warned that certain actions of SAZAS could be inappropriate, but the Office of Intellectual Property could not act because there was no legal basis. SAZAS himself says that the system of tariffs in 1998 is not fair and that things need to be looked at again. But here I have a synthetic overview of the problems that members of the Association of Cultural Homes have regional importance in their business cooperation with SAZAS, which are two sides of the comments. And I think that the thing is a lot hotter than it seems at first sight, and it's not just the relationship between SAZAS and the locals, but also the cultural question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u182	I agree with you that, in fact, these divisions, which we are witnessing in the framework of SAZAS, are a source of concern. It is only necessary to say that SAZAS is here a collective organisation that regulates these issues within itself, the cities of authors, among all the members that it brings together. It is difficult to expect that Parliament, the Government or anyone involved in any state intervention will intervene in relations between authors or between SAZAS members. True, you are right to exercise control over the functioning and consistency of SAZAS with the law of the Intellectual Property Office. I am sure that if this office, which is the body of the Ministry, proposed to the Ministry - that is, we had a number of amendments to the law - any amendment to this law, which would be more effective, we will take this into account immediately. Because it is also my interest to settle these issues, including within SAZAS, with slightly more, as I would say, clear legislation and perhaps with some other reporting requirements. So, as far as that's concerned, I'll give you the right. This projected change in my information is also in the direction of solving the cultural work issue that you have mentioned. In fact, so far there has been a rule on charging tariffs per square metre or something like that. So, some place, some event usually paid for it either by the number of visitors or by the number of square meters and so on. I believe that it is appropriate to analyse, consider the possibility of paying this tariff on the basis of traffic. Thus, it is likely that the problem falls away for all non-profit and non-profit-making activities. But let's leave this to the Copyright Council. Once again, this initiative was launched a while ago, and I know that the Copyright Council is in session and that in a few days, let's say, in a short time, a decision is expected.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Milan Cvikl will ask the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My question to both ministers is: How are you, as ministers and, of course, as heads of bodies, satisfied with the functioning and cooperation of the Competition Protection Office, which is somehow influenced by the Minister of Vision and the Securities Market Agency, which is an independent regulatory institution, but the Minister of Finance is preparing legislation under which this agency works? And if you are not satisfied with how you would or how you have worked in these years and a half to strengthen the effectiveness of the work of the supervisory authorities. I think it is clear to everyone in Slovenia that what is going on in this mandate has started to happen because of the policy's decision, also reflecting that the supervisory institutions, the Office for Competition Protection in taking control of acquisitions, in controlling competition and the competitive environment and the Agency for Securities Markets, have probably not done their best. This is because of the lack of work of the body or because of bad legislation, of course it is a matter of debate. There is no doubt, however, that we have a minister who is responsible for both of them, both for the drafting of better laws and for the preparation or if you want to, if there is also a need for proposals for human resources changes, to the extent that the supervisory authorities, which are, somehow, would not have worked successfully. Mr Minister for Economy, who is here with us today, of course, has a particular problem with the fact that the fundamental concentration that took place when Janez Janša sold Mercator to Istrabenzu and Pivovarna Laško, which he defended in front of the EU authorities for two years. And he said everything was fine. So it is now likely problematic to claim that the Competition Protection Office has not issued either the relevant decisions or has not issued the relevant opinions. The Minister of Finance, I suppose, has succinctly avoided himself, as has many times been the case today with his absence to answer this question. I therefore expect the Minister of Finance to respond to the part relating to his responsibility at the next session. However, Minister of Economy: Are you satisfied with what you have done in the property transformation in Slovenia over the past and a half years? Do you think that both authorities, and in particular your Office of Competition Protection, have acted properly? I ask for an answer here and now, and from the Minister of Finance at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Since the question was sent for cooperation between the authorities, it is said that between the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Agency for the Market in Securities, I have obtained an answer because it is their sense whether he has worked well with the ATVP or not. And the Office for the Protection of Competition reports that at the time when the Agency for the Market in Securities was led by the former Director, Mr Borak, that during this time he addressed to the ATVP several requests for the delivery of data relating to certain procedures introduced, specifically, for example, Colonel, Mercator, Pivovarna Laško, Terme Catež. However, the former Director of Cooperation rejected the cooperation in writing. Except for a few trivial matters, he didn't really want to deliver the documentation. There was therefore a meeting with Mr Borak to insist on the UVC, but the participation of the ATVP was very, as I would say, inactive. I am convinced, honourable Member, that we share the view that supervisory institutions, especially I have mentioned several times the Securities Market Agency, in these current disclosures, which have been going on for many years now, who, of course, is surprised when the curtains have been opened today, is surprised, but in fact, the concentration of capital in parking lots has been going on for several years, if not several decades. These concentrations, you can look at, at these concentrations we are competent agencies, and not just us, including the media and many, have warned. However, as I have already said, Mr Borak was actually protected by law as a polar bear. We should prove to him several times legally that he made a mistake, and he should be prosecuted. And because of this any change, you would condemn the loosening of these provisions in the law, as you have repeatedly done in this House, once again as a desire to submit supervisory institutions, a human tsunami and so on. However, I would like to save my respectable colleague Bayuk some time for his part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u188	I understand Mr. Bayuk is not here. So I'm going to ask you a question to Mr. Minister. However, I expect Mr Bajuk to respond accordingly. Look, Mr. Secretary. I asked you how pleased you, as Minister, are with the functioning and cooperation of the two institutions. You're the directly responsible minister. You're saying we share an opinion here? We can share an opinion, but you're the responsible minister. What did you do in three and a half years? What you did in three and a half years at the Competition Protection Office to prevent or at least to prevent the acquisition that took place in Mercator. What did you do? You've informed the European institutions that everything is fine and these people have said, but if the minister says that everything is okay, we can do something else, we can park something else. It's not Mr. Borak's fault to go out here and say it's all his fault. Please! You are the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If part of the body has been overlooked, you must act and not say that because the opposition is supposed to oppose taking over in a way that is why you did not come to Parliament and suggest that it is necessary, I don't know, in the ATVP law to do this or that, whether it is necessary for the takeover legislation to do this or that. No, Mr. Minister, you have even amended the takeover law so that it was very easy to give the shares that these bought cheap, as a basis for loans and only after we have been through the warnings to Mercury's business, etc. We triggered this as a problem, let's say this year we fixed it a little bit. In 2006/2007, when this happened, you relaxed it. And don't talk about a few decades, Slovenia isn't even two decades old. The matter took place in this mandate, which began in August 2005, at a meeting where it was determined what was to be sold to anyone. I'm asking for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u190	You've said a lot of things. A lot of untruths. The first untruth is that it started, I don't know, a few years ago. This process of capital concentration has been going on for more than a decade. More than a decade. You have linked the Office for the Protection of Competition with takeover legislation and financial assistance. Financial assistance shall be prohibited under the Companies Act. And we've talked about this a number of times and business on the basis of it is nothing. We have talked about this several times, and we have put this into the Company Act at the beginning of this mandate. The supervision of takeover legislation shall be carried out by the ATVP and not by the Office for the Protection of Competition. One more time. When I first found out, and this was quite a while ago, that with the functioning of the Competition Protection Office there was a lot wrong, but not in the sense of wrong decisions, in the sense of not deciding or overlooking certain decisions, I also had an interview with Mr, then Director of Strautnik and the result is evident. So, as far as I am concerned, with regard to the powers of the Ministry of Economy and the Office for the Protection of Competition, I would argue to you once again that the matter was under the mandate or also under the leadership of Mr Plautnik, ineffective and also inconsistent, and that in the future, a number of other bodies, as well as the courts, will act. Because these things aren't over yet. In fact, this is where the proceedings will begin, and courts are likely to come to some kind of epilogue in the end. In short, events are due to the failure of supervisory institutions. The supervisory institutes are those who oversee the provisions of the law and, in my opinion, have acted inconsistently in these specific cases and this will also show the procedure - whether it is true as I say or not. And once again, parking lots, connecting these parking lots are a matter of controlling the securities market. Concentrations, however, are the result of the Office for the Protection of Competition. And once again, under the directors you set up in the previous term, these things happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Please, procedurally, but I would like to warn you that you have not received the answers of both ministers, so it is not possible to request a hearing at the assembly. But if you have another procedural question, please. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u192	Look, Mr. Chairman. Well, according to this ruse. I will explain, given the transfer of the Minister of Economy, I think it is pointless to wait for Mr Bajuk's reply. It doesn't make sense. For the minister says the following: "No, not only Zborak, but also Mr Plahutnik has acted poorly. But Mr. Minister of Economy, you have been Minister of Economy for three and a half years and you have done nothing to make this Office of Competition better." You said, "He acted ineffectively, inconsistently." You claim that the organ in the composition acted inconsistently and ineffectively. So you are an inconsistent and ineffective minister because you are responsible under the Government Act for the work of the entire department and your own. Therefore, in accordance with Article 246, I propose that we hold a debate on the Minister's response to my question. I will no longer wait for the Minister of Finance to respond to me and, of course, if the National Assembly so wishes, a full debate will be held - first of all, on the response of the Minister of Economy, to see, of course, what was this inconsistent and ineffective work and, of course, what would the government do? Look, Mr. Secretary said here too, not only is it inconsistent, ineffective. We will also cancel this in the courts. Wait, you're not the legislative branch of power. Is there a proposal yet? My question was: If you are not satisfied with the work you said; you said it was ineffective, inconsistent, it was the question: How will you enhance the effectiveness of this work? You didn't even answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u193	We replaced the director.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u194	So wait a minute. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u195	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u196	Can you calm him down?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u197	Please! I'll calm down. Don't worry. Mr. Minister, Mr. Magg has the floor. Squeak. And I expect your proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Look, Mr. Minister, this is the Rules of Procedure of the President of the National Assembly. But you must be quiet now, because that's what the chairman ordered. Let me finish my thought. It is, of course, necessary to strengthen the effectiveness of this work. That's not just what you do by changing one man, Mr. Secretary. This is done first by having a different influence on this organ. Not that you, through this body, claimed that Mercator was okay. You're the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u199	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u200	I'll be done. I've got 20 seconds left. As Minister of Economy, you have been sending to the European institutions the answer to the question whether there has been a problem in this business for two years. Until Janez Janša said in an interview, "It was a problem." And, of course, today, with the discovery of ownership in Istrabenz and the Laško Brewery, we have confirmation of this. The reason for this is the ineffective and inconsistent functioning of the organs you run, obviously also of the ATVP. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on the answer, and we vote on it tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u201	Thank you very much. About how it goes. I would like both of you to explain how the matter is dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure if you hold out. Please! Mr. Mag. Squeakle asked if a debate could be held. The debate will be held. However, on the response of the Minister of Economy. You haven't received the Secretary of Finance's reply and he won't answer. That is why I say, on the proposal of the Ambassador mag. It has been said that the National Assembly will hold a debate at its next meeting on the Minister's response to his question of the economy, and will decide tomorrow in the framework of the vote, on 22 May 2008. He's got the word. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Mr Ja, please, Mr Squeakl, second procedural proposal, has the floor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u202	Mr Vice-President, I propose that, until tomorrow's decision on this proposal, we also receive the Government's response to the next procedural question. Today, at 9.05 p.m., the President of the National Assembly read or said that we had received a desk review of questions and initiatives that had not yet been answered in the course of business. We are two months before the conclusion of the National Assembly. 26 are such written questions and initiatives that the Government has not answered. I'm not gonna point them out because they're famous. But it is mainly the area of the Ministry of Finance, which is not here today, and the areas of some other ministries. I think it would be right for the leadership of the National Assembly to make an effort by tomorrow's decision and to receive a reply from the Government, the Minister of Economy, the Minister of Finance, or the Government, in this mandate, to these written questions and initiatives at all. It is known that, Mr Minister, you were a Member, a deadline of 30 days and, for example, 6.4.2007, a question was raised by colleague Mira Petk on the operation of branches of the New Ljubljana Bank abroad. An important question. Mr Miro Friday has the right to receive an answer. But the government has been silent for a year. I propose in a procedural manner that, until tomorrow's decision on this agenda item, we also receive information from the Members of the National Assembly, whether this Government intends to respond. Because if the Government does not intend to do so, then I believe that we have a great misunderstanding of the legislative role played by the executive branch. Just like before when Mr. Minister wanted to explain procedurally here and I don't know exactly what. He doesn't have that right. On a case-by-case basis in the National Assembly, we ask Members of the National Assembly. I think that the Slovenian public should also be told that these are important issues. One of the questions, for example, is my question which was not answered and I would kindly ask if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would answer us. 26 unanswered written questions and initiatives are simply too much to allow for peaceful reasons for the Presidency or, I don't know, for what reason. It is clearly either a major political attack by some who have asked these questions or simply a negligence, inefficiencies, inefficiencies, inconsistencies in the work of the Government, as the Minister of Economy has acknowledged in his field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. Mag. Squeak. I have to tell you that you yourself have said that this will be decided by the leadership of the National Assembly. Therefore, I ask that the representative of your parliamentary group send this initiative, which is on a magnetogram, or to present it to the College of the National Assembly. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I must say that what my colleague Swickl suggested we did in the Lipa Group just about an hour ago and sent an appeal to the leadership of the National Assembly to appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of this esteemed assembly, to start within the time limit set in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The right minister must answer the Member within 30 days. And I wonder, these are not questions that I would have imagined, you, Mr Squeakl, or this National Assembly. These are people's questions, because we are Members of the people. And if this government ignores the people, it's totally wrong. I ask that the leadership of the National Assembly, of which you are also a part, also my distinguished fellow Member, Mr Pece, such will be the request and appeal to this Government, which is also ignoring the number of ministers present today in response to Members and Members' replies. It refers to the questions of the people who have been elected to respond appropriately. It's number 26, I think it's a little too big a number, and let the lunatics do their own thing. That's one way or another with the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Mr Mitja Slavinec has the floor to ask the Minister for Education and Sport, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. Indeed, the Minister for Education and Sport has been absent for the second time in a row. So I expect another answer. I'm asking a question at the next meeting. This time, however, related to the embargo on increasing enrolment in music schools. For some time there has been a fact that there are significantly fewer vacancies in music schools than those who want to enter music schools. And not just those who want to. Even those who fit who are talented, who also have musical tendencies. So those who, according to all the criteria of the music school, could accept and educate them well. The answer to the question why the embargo on the distribution of entry places for students in music schools was usually that it did not give sufficient resources to be tendered within the means available. It's all good and it's all good. If, on the other hand, we did not grant concessions to private music schools. And, as in other areas of education here, unfortunately, in the field of music schools, we can also see that the public network of schools is failing at the expense of the private sector. No one has anything against private music schools. On the contrary, they must be encouraged, but not at the expense of public schools. It is not at the expense of public music schools, which, as I have already said, could have enrolled more students who have the infrastructure, the staff and, last but not least, the interest of the students in education. And that's why I'm interested, and I'm expecting a minister. Why a discriminatory attitude toward public music schools? Why does it limit the entry and, on the other hand, grant concessions to private individuals? And how does he plan to solve this problem in the future? At the expense of further decommissioning of public music schools, for which I underline, by the way, there were a lot of resources, including public funds invested in infrastructure construction, and the local communities have contributed a very large part of their resources to this end? Does music education, therefore, want to save by continuing to squander public education and grant concessions to the private, or does it have a vision to establish an appropriate partnership between each other? One that will be good for all and that will ensure synergies. So it's some kind of collaboration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Would you like an oral response to the next meeting, of course? Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic. He will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good day to both ministers and colleagues. My question concerns the issue of beekeeping in Slovenia, which is not for the minister to tell you right away. It's neither provocative nor political. But simply as a veterinarian and a longtime beekeeper I feel called upon to open up certain questions and try to make my contribution to solving this problem, which is, of course, at the forefront of this moment. And I think it is, too, and that the moment when we pay a lot of attention to it is right not to seek fault, not political questions, but to think about how to proceed. In the time of Mr Anton Janša years ago, we were Slovenians one of the leading nations in the former Austro-Hungarian area. Mr. Anton Janša of Gorenjska went to the court of Vienna and taught the Danube how to do things in the field of beekeeping. In this part of Europe, the importance of the cranium is also special and traditional. I'm sure if we join forces together, we can return to the path of former glory. It is, however, a fact that times in which we are not most inclined because of different changes. On one side is the sensitivity of the bee, which is a suitable indicator. On the other hand, there are processes in the environment. Children on the branch are already teasing about plant protection products, what’s going on and how it’s happening. Of course, despite certain good intentions, we may have made some mistakes in the marriage, which, of course, is always and every moment further to be corrected. However, I wonder if we can build a strategy in Slovenia, a positive attitude towards beekeeping and, above all, things that will catch up with us sooner or later. If we can avoid any mistakes. In my article, or in my question, I draw attention to the emerging genetically modified organisms that attack genes in these areas and add genes to prevent waxing and its operation or corny skills. It's a very similar matter. And especially given that there is another type of corn on the march in Europe, or that it is trying to get on a path that is supposed to hurt rightly maize beetles, but it is also made of this type of insects and insects and also this maize and its pollen can undoubtedly affect beekeeping. Then there is no doubt that the area he knows best is the health protection of the bees that this moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u210	Thank you very much to Mr Sayovic for what he himself said, a well-intentioned question and attitude towards this important branch. I agree with him. So today, at a public conference, the ministry presented a preliminary report on the alleged causes of bee plague recently. This report is based on the collection of seven samples in the previous week. The first analyses indicate a possible causal link between a certain insecticide used in the production of seeds and maize when planted against soil pests and the same active substance that could have been implanted on the sowing site of a neighbouring cucumber. Another possible link, according to experts, is that the seed of the mustard has been completed with the same active substance. Therefore, these analyses of rape seed continue. Also in stroke samples, an illicit drug was found to suppress bacterial disease in swarms. And this combination, the interaction of both substances, according to experts, may have led to a sea of bees. These causal links, of course, continue to be sought. And, of course, the results are also available to the investigating authorities. In order to prevent, to the greatest extent, we are trying to prevent further tragedies and to confirm the possible link between the poisoning and treatment of seeds and, in view of reports similar to those from France and Germany, we will also propose some measures, as soon as possible. One is that we will propose to beekeepers a preventive withdrawal mainly from the vicinity of the fields of the flowering oilseed. Then, in terms of precautionary principle, we will probably impose a temporary ban on five phytosanitary preparations. We will probably withdraw the treated seed of corn and cucumber, which is already in Slovenia. Regardless of the likely direct cause in this correct case, I would point out that the use of FFS is not incorrect, we will, however, increase public awareness of the correct use. This is where I especially expect better cooperation from the Chamber. We'll also issue leaflets with a total of 80,000. We're going to publish recommendations on professional newspapers. We will participate in the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia, etc. Then we will amend the Regulations on the Education of FFS users, which will reintroduce the mandatory renewal of knowledge previously withdrawn every three to five years. Then we will define the content of education more precisely. We're going to introduce practical representations. We will also continue to closely monitor the correct use and traffic and control of the border due to possible imports. We have also set up a watch on emergency cases. If necessary, we will also make other systemic movements in this area. I would like to say that we also need to provide systemic funding for analysis in cases of deaths. And until this is resolved, the Inspectorate for Agriculture, Forestry and Food will take care of this. About the program, suppressing the guards, according to Vurs' information, it's about every year's program. Regular examination of beekeeping by systematics, examination at the invitation of a beekeeper or official veterinarian, etc. Perhaps the problem is that about 10% of beekeepers have actually asked for help in the past year. Otherwise, you probably know, as I am sure, that we have a special programme in Slovenia, which is also funded by the EU for cca. 600,000 euros. A public advisory service has also been set up and beekeepers can also run for certain investment funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Saivitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u212	Thank you very much for the specific answer. I've been on the website for about an hour and a half, looking for messages from a press conference. They're not here yet. I'm glad it's going this way. I think it's real and concrete that we don't sweep anything under the rug. And that, if we know, what we suspected was poison and plant protection products, at least some of them to investigate. Until then, they will certainly withdraw such interactions or similar matters. Because, for example, another dark part of the truth about a single asset came only decades later, it was already happening in mankind, and it is likely to happen. What had the most positive effect in the first moment later turned out to be bad. A typical example is DDT, which saved Europe’s colorful bug and prevented hunger, later proved to be one of the worst poisons that causes cancer and more. And, of course, when that happens, action must be taken. Just as you predicted, and before that, be careful. On the one hand, I'm afraid of genetically modified organisms. For the pollen, which also has the remains of these toxins, or the means against parasites, could also have an effect on bees and other insects and insects in the next steps. That's why it doesn't have to be a priori against it. However, it is important to be very careful and to require further research and explanations. But we must all work together to do more in the field of education, how to treat bees, with beekeepers. Perhaps some media campaign within the ministry, which workshops and veterinary services in the field will be further trained and staffed and strengthened. Again, thank you very much for your action. It goes to the good of Slovenia, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Peče will ask the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u214	Your Honors are here! I have to say in person, as personal only as Sasha Peca, that I miss Mr Baiuk. Even more. The less I see him, the less I face his actions, the better I think. However, from the point of view of my function, I must say that I am one of those Members, who are a large majority who have not been able to establish them even through the Institute of sent questions and initiatives to communicate with Mr Bayuk, despite the fact that the law allows me this right, and I personally take it as a duty. In short, my condolences to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and not least to all those citizens and citizens who are in a direct relationship with Mr Bajuk and he is the only one who makes them everyday. For if his attitude toward them is like that of this National Assembly, then in our country we should not be surprised that the minister who claims that we have a budget surplus is going through all the stitches. Even more, even where there are no stitches. But I would like to ask a question, and I sincerely hope that Minister Visjak will answer it. I myself am one of those who claim that a tampon of thefts, clientism and corruption is hidden in the name of Soda and Kad. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the current Government, in which Mr. Bajuk and Mr. Vizjak also sit, adopted, as part of its meeting, a sales plan, the sale - whatever we call - of state property, a list of over 200 companies that the Court and Kad, as the Head of State, would sell as assets of every one of us, in the coming period, for months to come. Later, in the form of an answer, the same answer comes from Mr Visionak that the Government does not have any contact or the Government must not intervene in the work of the Court and the Kad. So, on the one hand, we have the Government, which to the Court and Kadu, the para-state institutions, says this and you have to sell it in this period and this period. When the Government of the Republic of Slovenia asks why 200 companies, who is the buyer whose goals are being achieved, Mr Vizjak replied in every written reply: "I cannot answer this, for this is beyond my reach." Basic question: Who is fooling around, who hopes to talk about customerism and corruption while everyone, we know what friendly goals they pursue in both the Court and Kad, and how does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia hide such activities? Allow me to expose only one of these companies below. Paloma, too. And on the specific case of Paloma, the holder of economic development in the north of Styria, you are both Minister Bajuk and Minister Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u215	Mr. Minister Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u216	I will only answer the part of the question that I am responsible for and leave the rest to my ministerial colleague Dr. Bayuk. But, Madam Vice President, it is incorrect. Mr Bajuk was here today until 12:30 p.m. and answered all the questions raised until then. It's made from 9:30 p.m. to 12:30 p.m. If the parliamentary groups have so asked questions that they have come after this deadline, of course, Minister Bajuk is not to blame and will probably have the opportunity to answer later. So much for correct information also for those who look at us, for we work for them. Indeed, the Government has adopted a programme to withdraw the shares of Kad and Sod, or to change these investments from a management investment to a portfolio investor for certain companies. So those strategic companies, the financial sector, like this insurance company, the banks. Some other companies in the field of energy, gambling and the like have also identified infrastructure as strategic investments in which it will maintain its share. Through a series of public tenders, the Court and the Court sought potential buyers, in particular by meeting two key objectives. The first objective was the optimal development plan of this potential buyer for society itself and the second objective was the optimal purchase. This has been the case with a large number of companies. The country withdrew or changed its position as owner. Let's say this from a management owner, including a control owner in a purely simple portfolio investor. So this withdrawal took place according to plans. Of course, we do not cooperate and do not want to participate in any particular sales procedure between the Government and the ministries. However, we have given the two para-State funds a strategy, a plan to do so. In addition, it is possible for the parastatal funds to respond to the acquisition bids. So the invitation to tender is not the only way, even if the takeover is published can be made. For taking over is also a transparent process. Since the Ministry of Finance is the custodian of state assets, which is also managed by the KAD and the SOD, I can also provide the Member with a specific list of companies, such investments, which were also sold through this time line by the KAD and the SOD. That's not a problem. I believe Minister Bajuk will answer that, too. But I can also convey to you if this comes from complementing the question. However, since you went a little wider in your question, you asked how they were going and what were the results of the sale of state shares in companies. This is said through direct sales, as well as within the framework of the CAD and the SOD. I'd touch more about direct sales. Direct sales are such that the Ministry of Economy was borne in the sale of part of the country's share in the Slovenian steel industry. This case has been successfully concluded. Similarly, RSC - Lead Mine and Zinc Mežica, construction materials. This one is also successfully completed. The process of divestment of Telekom has, in fact, ended with the Commission's proposal to put an end to this invitation to tender, failed. That's what you say. You don't sell out that share. As far as NAL Nafte Lendava is concerned, the procedure is still under way. Gardex - this is the subsidiary of Rudnika Trbovlje-Hrastnik, is a process of resale in the final phase, as well as Toplarne Hrastnik d.o.o. In fact, offers have come and the commission deals with these offers. Two sales are in the initial stage. Probably there will be no continuation in this term, and that is Pekko. It's a stake in Pek and a stake in Snow White. So if Members are interested in more detailed information, we are always available to give them.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u218	Let me start with the last part. Members have been interested in this information for the past two years and for the last two years, Member Sašo Peče asks you in writing, Mr Vizjak as the Ministry of Finance, but never answers. The second thing, I'm sorry, I didn't know that Mr Bayuk's working day lasted from 9:30 to 12 p.m., then of course you answered a lot of questions. However, I would like to point out and I know that you know that if you think that Members of the Parliamentary Group Lipa Barbara Žgajner Tavš, Sašo Pece as the last and last Bosniak Zagorac have deliberately reported that we are always the last to ask representatives of the government. Those of you who are here must say I am disappointed at the perception of the content of parliamentaryism on your part, when you know exactly that this is not what we set. But you said you'd answer for the part you're responsible for. Not by word of mouth did you mention Paloma while it was an economic society. You went to Mura to take a picture. You probably don't even know where he is, but what's most important is what happens if the SOD and the KAD, as you call it, have two tasks ahead of them. The first is sales, and the second is management. Then I must say that the sale in your terminology has been successfully completed. And you have highlighted the Slovenian steel industry, while we know that the anti-corruption commission has put its well-founded concerns about the existence of clientelism and corruption on this sale. And if, as another example of the successful sale of our property by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, you expose the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine, then my condolences to Slovenian citizens not least me over such a government of the Republic of Slovenia. And what's most important: How many times can it be said that the management or management right of the SOD and the KAD cannot be achieved only and only by the staffing on the political line, but through the human resources policy there must also be effects? But that's not what you're getting at. I'm asking for that answer, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u220	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr Bayuk's working hours are probably longer than any working time for us here sitting in this Chamber. Do not contradict the words when I said that Mr Bajuk was in this hall between 9:30 and 12:30. I'm sure he'll explain. One more time. As far as Paloma's concerned. I think there has been a lot of talk on this subject, and once again, owners, who also carry out all these ownership obligations, are para-state KAD and SOD funds. Thanks to rumors, including tips from the types, you have ordered extraordinary audits carried out by respectable audit houses. And only as I would say, convincing evidence, an element against can serve as a basis for action. And I believe that the Ministry of Finance will act in this regard. And even if I am to receive some of the observations or irregularities found in this audit report. As far as the mine is concerned, RTH - no, the Ministry of Economy does not sell the mine, if that's what you understand. But the mine is the Trbovlje-Breeder in closing. This mine closure law was passed a long time ago. Some subsidiaries, some subsidiaries, are therefore being sold out. I've counted two of these. Because it's about getting these companies new managers, new owners, and they're taking them further. So, I am sure that an easy charge for some irregular operation of business administrations is relatively irresponsible. Because it's particularly damaging to these companies. It's more damaging to them than you think it's damaging to the reputation of this government. And as much as manure flows through the Slovenian steel industry, which employs several thousand people in the Republic of Slovenia, it exceeds all borders. Come, gentlemen, if you have any evidence on the table, and then we can face it. It was a meeting of the Commission on the theme of the Slovenian steel industry. I think it's the right place to talk about it. And once again, it's important economic operators. We've prepared ourselves for every irregularity and we'll face it. However, it must also be found. Of course, with some rumors, there's really more damage to the company than you could possibly be. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Procedurally. Allow me to explain my procedural proposal within three minutes. Minister Vizjak is deceiving, for the first time. Secondly, Minister Vizjak speaks inaccuracies. I sincerely hope he speaks solely for lack of knowledge, inaccuracies and misleading things. First of all, the success of selling S.J. to the Russian Cox, please! The system was conducted for the sale of credit to future shares. Just what is evident to domestic takeovers as some of the greatest evils. Minister, when it comes to selling to foreigners, welcomes, quote: "as a successful conclusion of sales". So, exceptional double criteria for domestic takeovers and foreign takeovers. Mr Vizjak further argues that the lack of information or the SDS policy will make him involved in the Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine. They sold out no matter what you say. I believe that all the locals or all those who accompany the daily newspapers know that it is you who sold the dependent disabled companies within this Trbovlje-Hrastnik mine. That it was you, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who sold all the social housing owned by the mine. So here today, we have nothing to sell, while the entire value of the mine of this mine you, including the land, is extremely incorrect. And as for the third seduction and the three answers you have given, the question of Paloma, let Styria, Maribor, Cersak, whatever we call them, let me point out. I am sorry that you, too, share the opinion that comes from the administration of the said company, the opinion that comes from the Soda and Kad, that the workers are the ones who are responsible for the situation in Paloma. This is an extremely sad story that he hopes to highlight or hopes to be summarized by the Minister of Economy. While you support the Members of the Alojz Sok case, which has been written several times, he threatens the representative of the Council of Workers personally, if he comes forward, he will already see his own. You too are summarising such a strategy. I think it is extremely sad that the hands of those projects that are truly to the detriment, regret or even shame of our country, they support the big bell. While double criteria are used, for the first time, for foreign partners, the second time, for friends on the customer line. I'm not talking about consulting, setting up 250,000 euros in electrical cables. There's a lot of that stuff. But I wish, as you said, that perhaps this ten-minute debate today is not the right place. From the title of your appeal, therefore, what you yourself said I am proposing a procedural proposal that the National Assembly decide to hold a broader public debate on your answer, in which you, of course, are welcome.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u223	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Saš Pečet to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy to his question, the National Assembly will decide in the context of the vote tomorrow, 22 May. The question to the Minister of Transport will be raised by Boštjan Zagorac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Apologize first to the well-respected minister. It can also be on behalf of the National Assembly. I'm sorry we're last. On the other hand, thank you for being here, as opposed to your colleagues, to which most of the questions raised by the Members relate and work until the 12th. In most of my question, we will agree, at least I hope. We are both trying to reduce the traffic on Slovenian highways to a minimum. Your project or project of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to reduce crowds, we are not talking about prices, we are talking about crowds, they are guilty. I ask you, or I appeal to you, and I'm interested. It's crowded on the highways, and I'm a regular user and I'm driving. I'm not driven down the highways to keep these crowds alive. They stay mainly because of, I'll say, two of the biggest factors on the highways. The first is the rehabilitation of the highway, which I believe is absolutely necessary. Then we have an emergency recovery, which I believe is necessary. For both forms or causes of these crowds, I hear that they will also be dragged into the so-called tourist season and will not help the users of motorways. And another major reason is the so-called trucks on Slovenian highways. I want to know: What is the position or plan of the Government to withdraw trucks from the highway? What is the government's project to reduce traffic congestion on highways? As a highway user, I pay it regularly through ABC. And I want to know: Do I have a duty to pay full toll even then, it is said, every day when the highway does not provide me with the comfort it provides under the State Roads Act? And yet another question, Mr Secretary-General, to which you will be happy to answer me and to which I have received my observations just in the last days of our consideration of provincial legislation. I'm saying it's not like that. You will tell me if I am right - some of the members of the ruling coalition, mainly of the NSI and SDS, claim that highways would already be built if there were 14 provinces in Slovenia. This is a specific question. I expect a concrete answer from you with a yes or no. Is it true - whether the regionalisation of Slovenia to 14 provinces really helps to build motorways or not, even though the highway cross was already the idea of the former Government or the idea of a independent state of Slovenia since 1991? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for asking. Maybe an introduction. I too am among those sinners who have not answered three questions within the prescribed time limit or the required time limit. I found out this morning. I agree with all those. It's just that it's necessary to build and it's not right. We have rules for this at the Ministry, and it is clear that, even in the light of the upcoming elections, one of my co-workers wants to do a little bit of conceiving to the Minister. In short, all three questions, Mr Jelinčič, Mr Juri and Mrs Žgajner Tavš will be on the table today, and I apologize for not being answered in the business deadline. But as far as your specific question is concerned. Accordingly, we are very well aware of the problems of congestion in the summer tourist season in the ministry. That is why all the necessary attention is being paid. Accordingly, the reduction or prevention of congestion from toll stations was also an important factor in decision-making - as you yourself stated - for the introduction of a new method of tolling with vignettes to be introduced on 1 July. This measure will significantly - as experts say - increase the flow of toll stations by five to ten times. Which is why waiting periods and long columns in front of toll stations, which we have been able to witness in recent years, will now be virtually eliminated. But when we talk about maintenance and reconstruction works on the Slovenian road network, which covers about 6,000 kilometres of main and regional state roads and over 32 thousand kilometres of roads owned by municipalities, we must be aware that on the vast majority of this network, that is, on more than 90 percent of the length of all the public roads mentioned, the summer tourist season is the most appropriate time for their reconstruction and maintenance. During this time, daily transport is significantly reduced due to migration to and from work. That's what my associates tell me. But I have to admit that I don't understand it myself, and I just can't agree with it. And also because of this, in order to ensure the smoothest possible traffic, I have already ordered Dars that no maintenance or reconstruction works be performed during the summer tourist season and that these works are carried out in autumn. I do not understand this thinking - as I simply say - that it is during the summer season or tourist season, in which we are all afraid in some way, we always say what will happen when the tourist season. And, of course, we now explain that it is most appropriate to do so. In short, I've ordered these works to be moved to the fall. Of course, this is impossible to ensure for those sections where new roads are under construction as it will be, for example, in the short term, when we start a short circuit past the village of Dragoň and the construction of a fast road Koper - Izola, or some of the more extensive investment works carried out by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for roads on the main and regional roads are under way. In such constructions it is not possible to stop parts over the summer tourist season. In these cases, therefore, it will also be necessary to account for occasional congestions in the biggest tourist destinations, which we will try to mitigate as much as possible with proper traffic management. In short, we'll try to move one part into the fall. What you don't need to do right now. But of course, we will do the rest in a way that will be as good as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u228	Thank you once again for your word, Mr President-in-Office! As far as road rehabilitation is concerned, I fully agree with these suggestions that they should be withdrawn from the tourist season. But you still haven't answered two questions. The first question is: Strategy of the Government for the withdrawal of trucks from Slovenian motorways. We know that the first strategy, the real rule that they should not drive during the weekends, has reduced traffic on the road and has caused chaos elsewhere. Well, she wasn't the most thoughtful. They have problems, I'll say, other people, especially in Prekmurje. And the second question: Do the facts, as stated by colleagues from coalition parties, hold to the fact that the regionalisation or formation of Slovenia into 14 provinces, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, would really accelerate the construction of motorways? At least this last question only requires an answer - Yes or no? And I thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u229	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u230	Thank you very much. As far as the government's strategy is concerned to get the trucks off the highway. Here I must say that we can actually link this to European transport policy. Until we can update public rail infrastructure to such an extent that it will not only theoretically but also practically possible, it will be very difficult to do so. It's just a fact. As far as the regulation you mentioned is concerned. By this regulation, I wanted to make life easier for the people on G1/3. And I estimate that we have achieved our purpose. That part of the trucks, although we were all somewhat skeptical together, was redirected to continue their journey through Austria. Indeed, it is not to be understood why trucks from Baltic countries, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia in view of the free movement of goods should continue their journey to Lendava. But obviously this is also because in Slovenia we have tolling for trucks obviously much too cheap and the cost of crossing Austria is inadequate. However, as regards the issue of regionalisation and the acceleration of the construction of motorways, I must say that I am not an expert in regionalisation here. But given that the purpose of regionalisation is to obtain as much resources as possible for certain regions, in particular European funds, it would be possible, of course, to accelerate this too. But I can't say it with a yes or no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u231	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Bevk has the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u232	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. The Act on freshwater fishing in its 28th Article imposes on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to grant concessions for the implementation of fisheries management in fishing areas. The transitional provisions stipulate that such a concession act shall be issued within one year of the entry into force of the law and that, in the first award of the concession, the priority shall be given to existing fishing families which have already managed fishing waters and fish stocks in them. The Fishing Union of Slovenia is very skeptical to the professional basis for the calculation of concessions prepared by the Ministry of Fisheries and the Institute of Fisheries and addressed a number of comments to the Ministry of Agriculture. The fundamental point is that the categorisation of the water ordered by the State, which was carried out by the Fisheries Authority in 2003, does not correspond from a professional point of view to the fact that it does not comply with the criteria of sport fishing. But it's only based on water quality criteria. The quality of water in the structure of the points achieved for the evaluation of sports and fishing sites also represents up to four fifths of the value of all points. In 2006, when we adopted the Law on Freshwater Fisheries in the National Assembly, it was literally written in the explanation of the law. [[Quote]] : "The revenue from the payment of concessions for the management of fishing areas and water rights for commercial fishing, which is introduced by this law, will total 33 million tolars." Today, instead of EUR 137 000 in 2006, the Ministry's draft regulation is expected to provide EUR 392,000 in revenue from the payment of concessions. This, in turn, will put a number of fishing families, who are exemplary in caring for management, ahead of insurmountable financial problems. Families will lose fishing waters that come into private hands or become elite clubs for wealthy domestic and foreign fishermen with thick wallets. Minister of Agriculture, Mr Jarc, I ask: What are the criteria for determining the amount of concessions expected by the State at the annual level on the basis of concessions? I also ask the Minister: Why has there been a significant increase in the assessment of the projected annual financial inflows under this heading in relation to the data presented in the National Assembly at the time of the adoption of the umbrella Fisheries Act, i.e. an increase of EUR 137 000 in 2006 to EUR 392,000 for 2008, as reflected in the preparation of the Concession Regulation?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u234	Thank you very much for this question, which is obviously based on the writing of the Fish Association or their information. You yourself have rightly determined that the Law on freshwater fishing is the one that governs this area. It also introduces the award of concessions on the basis of a call for tender. The invitation to tender is scheduled to be issued at the end of May this year. So, this month. In fact, the first concessions would be awarded at the beginning of the following year. As far as calculations and methodology are concerned, the expert services have told me that the methodology and data were taken from the 2003 category of fishing registers produced by the Fisheries Institute. According to the international methodology RCS, the "river conservation system", which is an internationally comparable methodology. In order to determine the water quality, data were used for the environmental test index of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. Other data are derived from the fishing cadastra or other official records. The professional services also tell me that the calculation used or used in the invitation to tender in the proposal is not the one you mentioned, about 39,000, but 311,000. There must have been some kind of mistake. Now the answer to this key question of your promotion. Still, there's been an increase. Our professional services think it's the following. At the time of the adoption of the law, the construction price was given for the annual inflow of the already mentioned €137,000. This estimate was based on 10% of the revenue from fishing cards shown by fishing families in their balance sheets. Later, it turned out to be quite a mistake. This assessment is in the fishing cards, since many families have misjudged or misjudged this in our view. And this is actually where this key mistake comes in. For this reason, the Regulation also provides that, in the case of the exercise of the right, the amount of concession shall be determined by establishing the value of the fishing environment on the basis of a single methodology for all environments in Slovenia. According to our assessment, now the current one, it is likely that this estimated estimate of the total concession will be somewhere between 310 and 350 thousand. It depends, of course, on how these concessions will be distributed. Because it is not necessary for these concessions to be obtained only by the current fishing families. If they do not apply or will not exercise the right of priority, then there is also the possibility of a price reference and then this concession may also be increased. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u235	Thank you. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u236	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Minister Jarc, I thank you for this explanation. But at the time of the adoption of the law, in 2006, she was Minister Maria Lukačič. And in the material or in the law it said exactly, in point three, in the explanations: "Evaluation of the financial implications of the bill for the state budget and other public funds. The revenue from paying concessions for the exercise of fishing areas and water rights for commercial fishing, which is introduced by this law, will total 33 million tolars or 137 thousand euros." It is said that the law was based on wrong data or was misleading fishing families and the Fishing Union of Slovenia. Finally, Minister of Agriculture Marija Lukačič said at the 12th ordinary meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, when this law was considered, on 11 May 2006: "Therefore we have prepared a new law which essentially sets the conditions and duration of the concessional relationship for the management of fish populations, which will be concluded for the 30th year, and the concession will be 10% of the income." And then it happened again. And now, because fishing families are supposed to misrepresent data, you're changing that height. That's not right. We adopted the law in this National Assembly on the basis of these assumptions, as the reasons for the law were written. Now, by a regulation, it is said that a lower act increases the value of concessionary funds. In addition, I propose that you return to that original base and take into account the comments of the Fishing Union of Slovenia and take into account their criteria as far as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u238	Thank you. Firstly, of course, the Regulation has not yet been adopted. As far as I can tell, there's also coordination with the Fishy League. Secondly, this assessment in the law was, as far as I know, informational in nature. It's common. And thirdly, in fact, according to our professional service - I will not say falsely, I will say incorrectly - the balance sheets displayed in the fishing families and actually these revenues were underestimated. However, I think that this is a matter of negotiating the profession and, above all, an agreement between the Ministry and the fishing families or the relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I thank the Prime Minister, the Minister and the Ministers for the answers given. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Thursday, 22 May 2008, by deciding on the proposed decisions. We're moving to 22. PERIOD OF THE DAY - FIRST DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A SPIRITUAL HEALTH LAW under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Zofija Mazej Kukovic, Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u240	Nice greetings, honourable presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The mental health situation in Slovenia is as follows: 5% is actually citizens and citizens with different problems. There are 100,000 of them who have depressive and anxiety disorders. Ten thousand are psychotic diseases. The number of people with mental disorders is also increasing due to demographic trends, due to population ageing. Of course, disturbances affect the quality of life of patients, their families and wider societies. We have almost 600 suicides, which means that suicides are twice as much as traffic accidents. And, of course, the purpose of this law is to find a way to prevent such a number of suicides, to protect human rights, persons with mental health problems and to create conditions for the integrated treatment and protection of persons with mental health problems. All the professions involved in the examination of this law were psychiatric, social, non-governmental organisations, the Ombudsman, the Information Officer, the Courts, clinical psychologists, the Faculty of Social Work, the Committee of Relatives with Mental Health Problems, which brings together relatives of five or six societies. We also received a petition from the family council. We have also received the initiative of the Council of State, Members and Members. Because this legislation is the one that is really necessary in our space. At the Summit of the World Health Organization Council, I spoke with different countries. Most countries have this kind of legislation. I didn't find anyone who didn't have one. Like, I've been talking to the Bulgarians and so on. This law lays down a system of health and social welfare care in the field of mental health and the operators of this activity. It lays down the legal basis for the adoption of a national programme to be prepared within one year of the adoption of the law. This programme will also focus on the suicide rescue programme. It defines the protection of rights with mental impairment in a department under special supervision or a psychiatric hospital, a protected department of the social security institution or in a supervised treatment. The restriction of rights is permissible only if the safety of life, the life of the person, the life of the nearest person is threatened if the security of the State is compromised. In other words, restrictions are not allowed. It defines the right of representatives of a person in the field of mental health to exercise rights in all treatment procedures. A person with a mental disorder is often in a situation where he cannot protect his or her rights alone and therefore enforces the system of representation. This law also lays down procedures before a court for admission without the consent of a person to a department under special supervision of a psychiatric hospital. A person with mental disabilities in proceedings before a court shall be legally represented by a lawyer, compulsory. A person can propose it on his own if he is capable. Otherwise, it must be determined by the court and the deadlines for this are extremely short. There is also a legal basis for possible controlled treatment and for people to be treated at home or treated in the community. We are moving from this concentrated treatment to psychiatric hospitals where it is possible to enter a more friendly environment. It involves NGOs. To help us, like other examples around the world, to deal with such difficult issues. Above all, the law introduces real control over all activities. It is also possible for special methods to be treated only on the basis of a decision of the Ethics Commission. No one can make their own decisions about people who have mental health problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u241	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u242	Nicely greeted. Thank you for your word. The law before us, this is the Proposal for a Law on Mental Health, we will support in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. The law is needed, in fact, necessary. Other countries have had it for a long time. In Slovenia, too, this law has been broken for 15 years. So it's about time we accepted it. I think it's also the right time to accept it. But I think it's also the right time to accept it, because he needed some kind of alignment and adjustment. Perhaps it is also because of some fellow Member who would be good if we also dealt with him under this law. In general, I do not think there are any specific comments that I would have on this law. It may be just that certain perpetrators of crimes will be shown to have suffered from a specific mental illness, not to be prosecuted or not punished, but to go to compulsory treatment. Here they appear certain, some doubts arise as to whether the matter will be properly settled. However, I hope that this ministry will deal with sub-legislative acts in which it will correct any legal loopholes and imperfections. We may need to say more about drug abuse in this law, for mental health depends largely on the use or abuse of drugs. I will certainly not be talking here about marijuana or cannabis, which in fact has no, practically no harmful effects. I speak as a pharmacist, I do not speak as a Member now and it would make sense to legalise it. However, the use of other so-called hard drugs, including designer drugs, would certainly be necessary, namely, those which are mainly based on inventions and additional radicals on amphetamine bases in order to tighten this need. In this case, a clause should also be introduced in the Penal Code that the use of these drugs is also a crime that we do not yet have in Slovenia. There's another matter missing here. Perhaps we could cover it here at a time when this law will be dealt with from the first to the third reading, even with an amendment of some kind. Otherwise, I think that the law is suitable for consideration, absolutely suitable for consideration, good. Of course, what comments we will have at the time of the debate. Perhaps one party in this marriage is overemphasized. There may be too much talk about the level of suicides in Slovenia. In fact, suicide rates are not merely the result of such or other mental health. It is the result of the environment, lifestyle, the environment towards the individual and the individual to the environment. That is why I think we should use more than just a legal basis here to settle these matters. But let's leave it to others. Once again, I think the marriage will be fine. It would make sense, however, that some testing could also be introduced in Parliament and that it would be possible to exclude from Parliament those belonging to a category of schizophrenics, a category of manicly depressed persons, beyond that narrowest framework and so on. But this is for another term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u244	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! A respected minister with her entire team! I must say that I am glad that it is, not only today on the table of this marriage, but also that the Minister has come to consider an important marriage. The fact is that or that mental health contributes to the social, human and economic capital of a society. Mental illness significantly reduces the quality of life of affected individuals and their families. This is not and must not be a challenge or a problem for the health sector alone. Mental health is among the three main reasons for absence from work and the main reason for early or invalidity retirement. It also means higher costs for society and for the economic, educational, social, criminal and judicial systems. Today, the Republic of Slovenia is one of the few countries within the EU that does not yet have a systemic approach in the field of mental health. If the EU is already in the stage of developing a mental health strategy, and I believe that the Minister knows very much about this area, because, at the time of Slovenia, at the time of the EU Presidency, the Minister is aware of trends in this area within the EU. Then I hope that the Republic of Slovenia has managed to take a small step forward after 15 years of agony or efforts by different professions, relatives and patients. But this small step is not yet a solution that we can finally meet. After years of calvary and even hesitation by this Government, which has already had a law in its work schedule at the beginning of its term of office, it has eliminated it. And when it has in fact shown that we will not get a marriage in this mandate, Minister Kukovičeva - and in this regard, of course, I commend her - listened to the relatives who participated in the meeting with representatives of the Lipa Group, and I will say, to the Minister or the Ministry. In short, she listened and, I will say, on our initiative I will reintroduce this law into the deadline for the work of the Government of Slovenia. The law is necessary. This has also been pointed out by the Commission of the European Union, which has already imposed on authorities in our country, namely the Republic of Slovenia, to ensure that the mental health sector, in particular the population of persons with severe mental health problems or mental disorders, is governed by legislation that will ensure and define their rights, duties and responsibilities and thus enable them to be equal and equal, that is important, the situation in society. Statistics say that every seventh citizen of the Republic of Slovenia has a mental disorder at a given time, and every third person will have a mental disorder for at least once in his life. For the two million inhabitants of an economically well-developed society like ours, it is possible to predict or predict about 10,000 psychotic diseases and about 100,000 depressive and other disorders. The main problem in mental health in the Republic of Slovenia is the high rate of suicide. And it is also right to draw attention to this segment or this issue. Over 30 per 100,000 inhabitants, statistics warn. So, more than a quarter of the Slovenian population has at least occasionally a mental disorder. 10,000 people have psychotic disorders. 100,000 suffer from depression at least occasionally or another mental disorder. The number of patients has increased significantly over the last period. I have data, 10 years ago, for example, at Psychiatric Hospital Polje treated 1,500 people a year, I speak at the annual level. Last year, so in 2007, they were adopted once more, 3,000. As the prevalence of mental disorders among all diseases is on the rise, the economic burden of mental illness will rise from the current 10% by 2020 to 15% and the costs of coronary diseases will rise. The number of people with mental disorders also increases due to demographic trends. The average annual growth rate of life expectancy in developed countries reaches between 0.2% and 0.5%, which means that it is extended by one year every two to four years. Therefore, the number of people over 65 years of age and even over 85 years of age is constantly increasing. As the population grows older, the prevalence of mental disorders increases greatly due to age-related diseases. And one of these diseases is undoubtedly dementia. In Slovenia this is the case. Six psychiatric hospitals. Other settings for persons with mental disorders are defined as special needs for adults. We have five institutions here. Mixed institutions or homes for elders and adult homes with special needs. That's seven. However, many persons with mental disorders are placed in retirement homes or in the elderly, where the number increases. And this information, respected colleagues and colleagues, says that Slovenia does not have an adequate social and social security strategy, because the home of pensioners is not a suitable place to judge persons with mental disabilities. Psychiatric hospitals are arranged so that, for example, the inhabitants of Koroška, Primorska and Dolenj region have access to them because of their remoteness, as is the case with the majority of the rest of the population. There is also a shortage of outpatient psychiatric care in these areas. As our population, as I mentioned earlier, is getting older on the basis of statistics, there is increasing dementia. Pensioners' homes, which are already unable to follow demographic trends with existing capacities, are overcrowded. Even with people who should be helped by society in a different way, not by putting them in retirement homes. In addition, the standards for professional staff in professional protection or specifically in the homes of pensioners do not follow the needs. For example, in the homes of pensioners or in one home of pensioners comes one caregiver 0.08% psychiatrist. In a psychiatric hospital, and this is finally in all forms of institutional protection, it's all imposed together. It's specifically for the Field Hospital. Addictions, psychiatric patients, easier and harder cases. For example, we lack a mental - health sanatorium, such as in cases of nervous breakdown when you need rest, a break from daily stress, and where medication is not needed. There are too many institutions that are combined or where people who are mentally affected and people with mental health problems are combined. Too little is done to identify mental illness and to distinguish it from mental injury. Slovenia needs, and this is not a secret, an integrated approach in dealing with mental health problems, promoting the mental health of the entire population. The development of a mental health strategy should include preventive measures - care and treatment, treatment of visibility and also discrimination against people with mental disabilities, better information and, finally, knowledge, better knowledge. So I hope to say that there is no longer enough just psychiatrists in psychiatric hospitals or so-called total institutions. These times are lived. We need new so-called alternative forms of treatment and, above all, help people with mental disorders. We need to promote a culture of cooperation in the workplace, support social networks and promote the social inclusion of these people, human rights and human dignity. In the Republic of Slovenia we know a number of NGOs that are trying to help people with mental disorders and their relatives. But because these non-governmental institutions or societies are not part of a public network, they face financial problems, which, at heart, hinder their work and, finally, alert them. I believe that days ago you all received a warning and a call for help from one of these societies that deals with the help of people with mental disorders or their relatives. I hope that this law will also take a step closer to those alternative forms, to which the Ministry is also calling out, that they are important in our country than the country's extended deadline. In addition to the protection of the rights of persons with mental health disorders and the harmonisation of existing legislation with the Constitutional Court decision, the basic objective of the law is to establish a legal framework for the integrated and long-term protection of mental health, including control treatment for persons with severe forms of mental illness following discharge from a psychiatric hospital, and treatment in a community that assists persons with mental health disorders in the rehabilitation, training and inclusion in everyday life, regulation of living conditions and psychosocial rehabilitation. I believe and wish that the basic purpose of the law will also be realized in practice. I want to, because I'm only going to remind you of one story. I believe it's a very painful story that we don't want, or we shouldn't want it to be allowed to do that in society. I believe you've all heard more or less about the story of a 13-year-old girl who, because of, I'll say, also inappropriate action by the state institutions responsible landed in a psychiatric hospital. Because of the protection of her integrity, and also because the girl is still a minor, I will not mention her personal name. However, it is right to point out such things because they are unacceptable that because of a dispute or because her legal guardian cannot make a decision or because she insists on her own, this girl lands in the hospital, in the department where she is deprived of her freedom. I believe that none of us want anything like this to happen because of the will of someone else. But these are examples that are happening today in our society. Perhaps it would not be in vain or wrong to ask ourselves what we can do in our country to strengthen the mental health of children. It's not enough, say, epidemiological data on the mental health of children. There is no review of areas not covered by the professional services and programmes of non-governmental organisations, as well as policy-level measures. We need some sort of logistics centre to gather information about the various activities of professional services and programs. Thus, for example, we could draw up a map of events in Slovenia and a map of spatial and substantively uncovered areas. This is, I will say, just a proposal that needs to be considered after we complete and correct the law or the content of the law. Increasing social disparities and unemployment undoubtedly have an important impact on the family's atmosphere, the consequences of the indevelopment potential of children and their psychosocial development. All of this is under-explored. But there are many lessons we can learn from other people’s experiences. However, we should carefully monitor and take into account all of this in our Slovenian field. As long as I'm done. It is good that we finally awaited the law despite the rebellion of the psychiatric profession or much of the profession. According to the law, it is clear why psychiatrists are, I will say, resist, because the law gives much more power and emphasis to the legal profession, which will be to psychiatrists who have been virtually untouchable until now, perhaps only to step on their fingers. There is a fear that social work centres, which also have more powers under this law, will not be able to obtain additional powers. That's a serious thought. Already, their coordinators are not in line with all the new tasks assigned to them. There is a possibility that the law will only be a paper tiger in the work of powers given to social work centres. And I believe that's not what we want. I therefore ask: How will social work centres be able to provide a sufficient number of coordinators in the community because they do not already have sufficient staff? The bill may be directed in a certain part to protect the citizen. But there is also the question of whether it will be implemented in practice and to a sufficient extent. The draft law introduces a representative of the rights of persons in the field of mental health by means of a similar hoof or sample as was the case under the Patient Rights Act. There are certain questions here, too. Is it written in such a way that it introduces the establishment of mobile mental - health groups at home? I hope we get a concrete answer. The treatment process, which I have already mentioned today, foresees a greater role for NGOs. At the same time, NGOs are facing problems with financing their operations today. Only in the case of very rare cases come, for example, into programmes for multi-annual co-financing of social programmes. While, as part of the health programmes, they do not actually come along. In these areas, there is a growing decline in the share of the money. To end the case of the day centers. In the area of Zasavja is one daily center for people with mental health problems. This one's installed in the Rippers. Other Zasavcans who want to come to the daily center must have their own transportation or use public transport, which is, hand to heart, very expensive. Most of these users, however, are faced with poverty, low income, which means that the visit to the daily centre is essentially a luxury. This is another area that needs to be regulated, I will say, either in a specific way or in a different way. Last time we listened on the side, I will say, to government representatives and above all to the professions, very serious warnings about the importance of poverty or its impact on mental health. If we do not address these problems in a timely and appropriate manner, then we will come into a vicious circle. But a vicious circle means negative consequences. Not just one person, but the whole society. But, as I said, marriage is basically good. We actually praise him, or the Minister of Health's move is commendable. Therefore, we will also support the positive conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration in the context of the Lip Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Bručan on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u246	Dear Chairman, Madam Minister with the team. In the SDS Group of Members, we will support the proposal for a law, and I can also conclude from the outset that the law, as it is, is suitable for further consideration. Prepared for long-term and long-term coordination, at a time when it was necessary to harmonise a number of different views on this matter and on this issue, not only different views within the medical profession. What is even more important and sometimes harder to look at different disciplines on this issue. This includes, in particular, coordination with the field of justice and also coordination with the labour and social sectors. This coordination has been tried to lead to an end in the previous term, in the mandate of the previous Government without any serious success. We wouldn't be analyzing why this happened right now. In any case, at the beginning of this Government's mandate in this area, we have adopted a situation that needed to be reconciled urgently. Not just because of Europe's wishes. But also because of the needs that have arisen in this area with us. And thank God, today we have a good proposal for a law that we will be able to adopt on a regular basis in this procedure that is before us. Maybe there are other points to be added. But in any way, the law, which is, by many coordinations and by many opinions, not only the professions, those areas that I spoke about earlier, but also after the coordination of civil society and others present in this process, which led to this result. It's already been there. There was a lot of talk today in my two predecessors about the various content of this law, which I would not be repeating here. But in any case, I think there's two things I need to figure out here. This law establishes a legal framework for the long-term protection of mental health in Slovenia, and also takes into account the Constitutional Court’s decision of 4 June. 12. 2003 when this area was ordered to be settled. In particular, to arrange for the forced detention of persons in the closed section of the psychiatric hospital. I must say that I have actually cooperated with both sides in the drafting phase of this law as a lawmaker and also now in Parliament as the one who adopts the law. So I can say that this was a very long and painful process. The process, which has already shown that it will produce results that will be acceptable to all, has, in its final form, always been found by one of these negotiating groups of different areas, which has made it impossible to conclude with its proposals, which has already been adopted in practice. Thank God, as I said, last year this agreement was adopted and is now here for a final reception in Parliament. But today there was a lot of talk about psychiatry. Now, of course, they're discussing psychiatry. However, I must say that the assessment of psychiatric hospitals in Slovenia can be very good. Not only can it be very good, the functioning of the psychiatric work of health care and medicine in hospitals is actually great. The whole process of this good treatment of psychiatric diseases, and not only treatment of treatment conditions and living conditions in these hospitals, began in 1996 and since then it has only been upgraded and the procedures have themselves been modernised. The conditions in which psychiatric patients reside are also modernised. Of course, this law does not regulate these matters, which were discussed here today. The law, however, will help to make the number of suicides in Slovenia smaller than in the past. Therefore, it is also well received from this point of view. However, it is absolutely necessary under this law to adopt the National Programme for the Protection of Mental Health, which will further regulate and complete some things in the future and also place them in the field itself. However, there is one issue in the field of psychiatry that will need to be resolved or continued in the future. That's the problem with forensic psychiatry. The special functioning of this part of psychiatry, which is what we are currently missing in Slovenia and which we have devoted quite a bit of time and effort in this mandate, is actually due to some of the logistical problems that have not yet come to an end. This law is of particular importance even when it defines the specific protective measures used to facilitate the treatment or control of a person’s dangerous behaviour. These measures urgently need to be separated from treatment measures. I have to say that it was on the psychological side that there were different opinions among individual psychiatrists in this area. Well, finally, the matter has been brought into line in this area, and the law is what it is now before us. The proposal for a law on mental health is, we can assess, a good law that is to be supported and can be supplemented in some respects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Purity on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary with the team! Dear Members and Members! In the context of the vote, we will decide whether the law is suitable for further consideration or not. Social Democrats will not object to this proposal. However, there are some facts to be said in the introduction, why we belong to a number of those who believe that the Law on Mental Health, whether we are satisfied or not, removes an important legal gap. In the previous term, our party's president, Borut Pahor, proposed a law with similar content. However, it was then found that the law needed inter-sectoral coordination, additions and corrections. That's how he ended his journey at the end of his term. The entire previous term was a lot of talk about the new law, and even at the beginning of this mandate, the intensity of the drafting of the law took place at a different rate of speed. We have certainly followed the drafting of the law by the Social Democrats in every single report by the Ombudsman, who has advocated the regulation of this area, and we have ever succeeded in adopting a recommendation on the necessity of such a law when it comes to the recommendations of the National Assembly. Finally, the coalition has ever held back such a recommendation if it is not necessary because the law is being drawn up. But we're finally at first reading. Because of the activities of our former fellow Member, individuals, relatives or associates who sought arguments and ways to convince the executive branch of the authorities that the law was absolutely necessary have often been turned to the Group of Social Democrats for the adoption of such a law. This is said to be another institution, in addition to the activities of the Ombudsman and non-governmental organisations, which has helped to make the law see the light of the world. This is certainly a decision issued in 2003 by the Constitutional Court, which also indirectly required such a law. Now, allow me to first touch on the comments of the Ombudsman, following the order I have mentioned. Because I, not only because of the profession to which it belongs, but also because of the Ombudsman's long-standing efforts for such a law, seem to need first-hand references. Not that I'd particularly like to become an expert on the titles of individual laws. However, it is not possible to overlook the Ombudsman’s concern that marriage does not have the best title. In fact, the Mental Health Act is a law that defines a condition. I'd say, by comparison, is there a Physical or Physical Health Act? We don't have that kind of law. Now we'll have him on mental health. And we should ask ourselves what questions we resolve with the law and then adjust the address to that. Well, it's not a picnic or a little linguistic trifle. That's definitely something to think about. In fact, the second point I take from the Ombudsman's comments is that it points to unequal access to services when mental health is impaired. I can agree to the thesis on the quality institutional care of those who have been deprived of mental health as told. But the fact is that individual areas do not have a good enough network, since, last but not least, the lawmaker also provided information on how to deal with psychiatrists in individual parts of Slovenia. And let's say, I'm only going to say three places where the number of specialists per 1,000 population is really enormously low. The worst is definitely in Koroška, then in Murska Sobota and even in Krška is no better. Here it is covered with what they say, as the preparers say, that people with mental disabilities find it difficult to find help in Primorska and in Dolenjska, with the white landscape and in Koroška. Prekmurje was released here, so I added it. The position of the protection of human rights, where access to the service is one of the essential criteria, is therefore already worth considering. Especially if we are also thinking about the prevalence of suicide, which today has also been discussed and Prekmurje is certainly the area where suicide is significantly greater than in other parts of Slovenia. So, "People with mental disabilities have to get in touch with too many people.", says the guardian below. There is an advocate, an attorney, a coordinator, a psychiatrist, other health workers, a social worker, a lawyer, a judge. I specifically cited, as you can see, female professional forms. We should ask ourselves, ‘ What is the truth about those who care for them? ’ I don't think I was wrong about anything when I was saying it like that. Now what has been somehow highlighted in one opinion today from a second point of view, as I will now summarize the Ombudsman's comment. For herself, psychiatric supervision is disproportionate in comparison with other medical disciplines, and according to the Ombudsman, it is not justified. This is said to point out that experts belonging to the psychiatric profession are themselves alerting to some kind of imbalance in the control of this activity. And now to the last remark made by the Ombudsman, which I also think is essential to make a bridge to another set of comments. The Ombudsman and the former Ombudsman both advocated that civil society, in particular NGOs, should be more actively involved in the drafting of laws. At the outset, the minister mentioned who had been involved in the formation of the law. However, it was not possible to overlook the fact that on 3 May, when this opinion was published, it was also possible to note that the Ombudsman did not know what had happened to her comments on this law. And the same is happening to us under all the laws, to hear how civil society was and how NGOs were invited to participate. How much of the essential, I emphasise, but the essential and conceptual comments have also been taken into account, and this remains a grey field unknown. And it would be good if we could also use this first reading to explain to us how much this has been taken into account, which I am now talking about, that it might also be part of the improvement of the text. I was talking about NGOs. I have asked the government several times, like my fellow Members and colleagues, about the systemic arrangements for cooperation between non-governmental organisations and the Government as regards the financing of non-governmental organisations, whenever NGOs enter the network of activities of programmes and services, which then, in fact, represent a public service in this area. NGOs that deal with caring for people with lighter or more severe mental health disorders are quite a thing. However, it does not show disregard for the warnings of representatives of one of them. She addressed her comments to all Members and Members, who pointed out that some NGOs were abandoning the individual programmes they had years ago. For example, there are no more crisis teams. It is said that groups of people who helped the user cope with the crisis and thus avoid hosipatization. This service, for example, is gone. He's also warning Elena Caverič. I refer to it when I talk about the fact that too many things in this law are left to a national programme that is not known when it will be adopted. The legal term or deadline will indeed be one year. But how this is actually going to work out, you don't know. Nor does it know how fast the dynamics of the adoption of sub-laws will be. These are all issues that the Social Democrats are particularly concerned about, because also the proponents believe that NGOs need to be better trained and also professionalised for this work, which they have been doing on a large scale on a voluntary basis so far. I'm not going to resort to good practice. But I would like to touch just one more chapter, because I believe that many things have already been said. I would like to touch two specific chapters. This is the supervision or coordinator of the supervised treatment and the Community coordinator of treatment. You'll both have a special interdisciplinary plan. They have different competences as well as different professional competences. I am more concerned at this moment with the solution associated with the Community coordinator or coordinator of the hearing. This coordinator or coordinator will be appointed by the Centre for Social Work. Since social work centres have a variety of new powers and obligations that we have given them in the last year with different laws and because I know some of the problems that have emerged in this regard, I have, of course, taken a particular look at this chapter relating to Community treatment, to the conditions for treatment, to the plan of treatment and so on. And here you can see what a lapisus that can still be taken as an editorial repair. But look, the community hearing coordinator does have some of those provisions that I think are as rigorous as we do in other activities. Article 97 states that a coordinator may become one who has not been legally convicted of any crime, of any kind. Is that going to be a fine too? What's that gonna be? A criminal act, of course. Non-payment of maintenance is also considered a criminal offence. This is certainly a very rigorous approach. Then it is also stated here that he has passed his examination as Community coordinator. I ask the proponents: Is the examination programme ready yet? Therefore, is the holder of the examination programme, the content of this examination, prepared for the purpose that the coordinators should gradually reach the number 30, from 2009. That's supposed to start right now, because everything else is gonna be too late. It would also be good to check how they are measured, since I have this experience with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in order to say, under the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence, lump sums for the intervention service do not cover the actual costs of this service and could also mention. This is said to have put forward, on behalf of the parliamentary group, some panoramic comments on the law and stopped at the very specific. I hope that these specifics will also be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u250	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Even in the LDS Club, we would like to say in the beginning that there is a long-awaited law before us today, that there has also been a lot of work done in this mandate in the Home Committee, namely in the Committee of the National Health Council, as well as in other committees in various treatments, where we have pointed out that this area in Slovenia is rather irregular and requires legal regulation. One of the reasons we needed this law. Therefore, only one of the reasons is the decision of the Constitutional Court, which required that certain non-compliances with the Constitution be properly regulated. Of course, many discussions on the need for this law have also been held in the annual report of the Ombudsman, who has, in fact, all the way through the National Assembly, pointed out that this law needs to be adopted. Today we have the text of this law before us, and we welcome the fact that this text has come into existence. Although it was expected that this law would achieve parliamentary treatment earlier in the framework of the work programme of this Government. Of course, here at the Liberal Democracy Club, we are already asking ourselves, and we are also joining in some of the opinions that were presented earlier, in order to answer precisely what version of the law is being considered today, given that there have been many coordinations, many draft laws that have been put into public debate, which have been followed by comments, and, of course, very carefully today, we could talk about the law, if of course we had a comparison between the individual decisions that were already on the table in all these years of the preparation of this law and have been duly rejected. Because of this, of course, it would be easier to talk today about certain content in the law, which we will certainly try to warn at the LDS Club. We could certainly not agree here that the profession is uniform in terms of this law. We also cannot agree that the civil public is fully satisfied with this law. So we certainly expect, given that we will not oppose the law at the LDS House in the future, that we will successfully receive answers to all the dilemmas that are emerging and that we will succeed in reaching an even greater consensus needed for the adoption of such a law. Of course, the law we are considering is necessary. In our opinion, it is absolutely necessary. At least for one deprived group of people. It's for that group of people who, because of a mental disorder that they don't realize, are endangering their lives or the lives of other people. Therefore, they must be treated against their will. That means a closed ward in a psychiatric hospital. By doing so, we reach out for their rights, perhaps the most precious of all. This is the right to personal freedom, which is enshrined in Article 19 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, where it is also written down: "No one shall be deprived of liberty except in cases and according to the procedure laid down in the law." Only the text of the proposed law is broader. So the problem of mental health is much broader. As a group of people, as I just defined it. The law, which carries the unfortunate title of the Mental Health Act everywhere in the European Community, is considered by the LDS to be an extremely important law. Written to protect this fundamental human freedom, small but very vulnerable and affected groups of people. This is a legal act that defines the procedures and practices in patients who, due to the nature of their illness or disorder, are unable to take care of themselves or may endanger themselves or others. Despite the need for this law, however, we would like to draw attention to certain solutions in the law, which we consider to be necessary for a thorough consideration. Thus, in the LDS, we have very serious concerns about the provisions governing treatment with special methods. These special methods are: electroconvulsive therapy, hormone therapy and psychotropic medicinal products above the prescribed values. We ask ourselves: Why should this be recorded in the text of the law? Do they not make a responsible decision about therapy after learning about science? Doesn't the profession decide that? Therefore, in our view, it is inappropriate and unacceptable to lay down this by law. We also ask ourselves: Is the professional board that will decide or prepare a proposal for the use of these methods not sufficiently competent and that the approval of their proposal will have to be given to a medical ethics commission? In our view, and even after consulting certain experts, we believe that the Commission for Medical Ethics is neither professional nor organisationally capable of arbitration on these issues. Therefore, we do not believe that it is right for the legislator, with his solutions, to be involved in professional matters. In addition, we believe that such an attitude is demeaning to the profession, that the legislator is asking about ethical controversy. In the LDS, we believe that psychiatrists apply the World Health Organization rules in their work, especially the World Psychiatric Association and the Psychiatric Section of the Union of European Medical Specialists on the use of psychotropic drugs and have clinical guidance and expertise on how to use psychotropic drugs, i.e. all medicines prescribed by psychiatrists. I therefore ask once again the question: Can the Commission for Medical Ethics, in which there are undoubtedly top medical ethics experts, also assess such difficult professional issues as the indications for specific treatment methods within the framework of the text of the law? In the House of Members, we also question the meaning of the solution referred to in point 4 of the second chapter, which lays down the right of an agent held by a patient in a section under special supervision, i.e. when he is taken against his will. In accordance with a constitutional decision verifying the compliance of the Law on Unlawful Procedure in Work, which regulates hospitalisation in a psychiatric hospital against the will of the patient, the Constitutional Court ordered that a professional representative, i.e. a lawyer, should be represented in a proceeding conducted by a competent court with the assistance of an independent expert of the psychiatrist. This is essential because hospitalisation violates two main constitutional rights: the right to personal freedom and the right to voluntary treatment. This can only be done if the law so provides and only the court can decide. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we estimate that there is no need or if there is a need for it, we would like to have significantly more arguments than can be assessed in the introduction and explanation to the individual articles of the text of the law, so that in the process of hospitalisation against his will, a psychiatric patient is further marked by a special lay representative. As an agent of the patient’s rights, the Law on the Patient and Rights already prescribes. This regulation applies to all patients and, in our opinion, there is no reason or point out once again that we do not know that a psychiatric patient, apart from the general representative of the patient's rights, also has a personal representative. It should be noted that only the text of the bill states that an agent may cooperate with a patient's representative in accordance with the law governing the rights of the patient or an agent may also perform the tasks of a patient's representative if he has been appointed in accordance with the Patient Rights Act. In this respect, we stress that the control mechanisms for treatment in the closed section of the psychiatric hospital are already much and more than in somatic medicine. First, there's a judge, an independent expert and a lawyer, all three come to the closed ward and talk to a patient who's taken against his will. He then supervises the work of the medical staff in the closed department of the head of the unit in which such a department is located. Then there is the possibility of internal professional supervision appointed by the Director of the Psychiatric Hospital, the external supervision of the Medical Chamber and the Ministry of Health. Finally, there is public control, which is always of interest to the psychiatric hospital. Psychiatric hospitals are also no longer operating behind closed walls than they were 50 years ago. Of course, this is why we would like a clear definition by the proposaler of the need for additional representatives, in view of the already clearly established mechanism for the protection of rights, to be included in such treatment. Here we would also like to give an assessment, followed by an introduction to the law. So when we talk about assessing the financial implications, the legislator foresees 12 representatives in 2009 and then increases each year by two representatives. This means that two representatives are envisaged for each Slovenian psychiatric hospital in 2009. The question is where you will be placed after two new ones in 2010 and then every year two new ones. Well, that answer is not clear. In this way, only in 2013 will three representatives be represented in each hospital. The costs to be incurred here will amount to around €2 million in value over these years, and, of course, the need for additional representatives should also be precisely defined from this point of view. At the LDS, however, we would like to answer one more question. Yesterday in the National Assembly, we decided again on the Penal Code. Why the Ministry of Justice simply - that is, why the Ministry of Justice has simply shifted the problem of forensic and psychiatric treatment to psychiatric care so that compulsory treatment can no longer be a criminal sanction. In this way, the Ministry of Justice has simply placed the problem of forensic and psychiatric therapy in psychiatric care. It does not explain why this is no longer the case if the section on security measures is only transferred to another law, but with exactly the same diction as that set out in the Penal Code. In the LDS, we support that part of the Mental Health Act, which regulates certain measures in the community - for example, supervised treatment in the community. Perhaps it would be even better if the community's concern and the future national mental health plan were governed by a special law. One of the quality solutions in this law certainly defines a solution that introduces a national health plan. Very important. Because it will define areas that go somehow beyond the content of this law, defining strategies, objectives, carriers and will certainly need to identify preventive measures in the national programme to reduce the risk factors of mental distress. Much more attention will have to be paid to services in a community where users will also be allowed to stay and be treated at home, even after leaving an institution or services that could be an alternative to hospitalisation. Thus, we now have a conceptually very varied proposal for a law on mental health. The bill thus defines a network of public mental health services, which, in addition to public health institutions, social welfare institutions, legal and natural persons with a concession for general medicine or psychiatry, also consists of non-governmental organisations operating in the field of mental health. This is how we attach to non-governmental organisations the demands on more appropriate systemic sources of funding, as their work in the context of daily centres, residential communities and advisory offices has grown beyond the nature of experimental programmes. It should be borne in mind that effective community care can have a significant impact on reducing the costs associated with mental disorders, in particular on the account of shorter hospitalisations and their smaller number. Above all, it allows for the best possible treatment of all those involved in Community treatment procedures. However, we are afraid that the proposed regulation of this issue will not be implemented until 2011 as the final provisions of the law define very long deadlines for the adoption of the necessary sub-legislative acts. There is real fear that the law will not soon come to life because of the complexity of complicated procedures. We can read that capacity will be built gradually and from financial impact assessments, where the most funds allocated to the judicial authorities are surprisingly high, we also see a larger increase only after 2011. Here, allow me to comment once again on the estimated financial implications of the two sub-chapters. So I will talk about the co-ordinators of the treatment in the community, where the draft of the legislator is that by 2013 this kind of treatment will need 3,000 people. In our view, this estimate is somehow obtained over the thumb, since it is not based on any real calculation or presented as being based on some real calculation. It is speculated that all who have been treated for a severe mental disorder will need such treatment. That's not true right now. However, when the real network for common psychiatric care is set up, in line with the future national mental health programme, this number will be - and in our opinion this number should be significantly smaller. 30 coordinators or one per 40 thousand inhabitants or at the estimated number of 3,000 such persons, one per 100 such persons, are foreseen. [[...]] Therefore, in our view, the burden on one coordinator is far too small to be worth the calculated costs. We therefore propose or call on the bill's proposer to provide the appropriate basis for such an assessment, and we propose that if this assessment has not been carried out, the "cost benefit" analysis will be carried out. A particular issue also arises for us in the obligations of the courts. Here too, in our view, an assessment may be misleading in one part. When they assume that the number of cases will increase, they are mistaken in our opinion. The new procedure, the so-called proposed procedure, will only relieve part of the current and also this law of the future emergency procedure. Therefore, in our view, it is not a simple grouping of persons who, following the new procedure, would increase the number of such hospitalisations to be decided by the court. Therefore, in our view, it is not realistic to calculate that 10 new judges, 15 new co-workers and 5 hearing rooms should be hired for the new proposed procedure alone. In addition, we would like to add: if it is to a large extent for people with schizophrenia or manic depression, the number of which is more or less constant, I cannot predict an increase in the number of hospitalisations against will. Therefore, the calculation of costs is, in our view, excessive. In the LDS, we would like to stress in particular, that is, in the party whose values are among the first and the personal freedoms of all people, and in particular the deproviligated, we assess that we need the law and that it needs to be upgraded and adopted as soon as possible. However, we note that a law must be adopted to protect the rights and dignity of both patients and health workers who treat these two groups of patients. When it comes to a group of people who are deprived, hindered, stigmatised, aggregated or otherwise on the side of society, so-called positive discrimination is carried out in solving their problems. The Mental Health Act is one of the forms and must be such positive discrimination. In recent years, the relationship between European countries and mental health has changed significantly for the better. There is an increasing awareness that there is no health without mental health, only mental health, along with physical health and harmonious relationships with others, make it possible for us to live a satisfying and quality of life. The way in which this building sets the pattern of harmonious relations would also be of concern to each of us, and we ourselves could make a significant contribution to this by doing so. In conclusion, allow me to say that the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and the House Club supports the bill and we will not oppose it. Of course, we expect to have concrete answers to our thoughts so that we can build on this content of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Ambassador Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u252	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister, representatives of the Government, colleague and colleague. After 15 years of efforts by relatives of people with mental disorders, civil associations, professional and political work, Members and Members of Parliament, the current Government, this must be acknowledged, has heard about these problems and has sent a proposal for a law on mental health to the parliamentary procedure. Such a delay in some way may also point to denying the problem, to fear, perhaps also to stigmatizing psychiatric patients and their relatives. According to some data, as many as one third of Slovenians have occasional mental problems and the problem is greater than we want to admit. The most worrying is the high suicide rate in Slovenia, more than 30 per 100,000 inhabitants. Psychiatry has recently made great progress and there has been an ever-increasing demand for the rights of people with mental disabilities to be protected. The International Convention also speaks of these persons being positively discriminated against. The proposal for a law also implies compliance with the 2003 Constitutional Court decision, which found that the provisions of the Law on Unfair Procedures with the Constitution were inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution, in relation to compulsory hospitalisation. Initially, the desire of law-makers was covered only by involuntary hospitalisation, but it proved necessary to design an integrated area of psychiatric treatment. Thus, the draft law provides a legal basis for the adoption of a national programme for the protection of mental health which will define a strategy and a 5-year action plan. The basic objective of the law is not only to protect the rights of persons with mental health problems, but also to establish a legal framework for the integrated and long-term protection of mental health, including controlled treatment to be given to patients with severe forms of mental illness after discharge from a psychiatric hospital, further treatment in a community that helps to rehabilitate, train and integrate into everyday life, regulate living conditions and psychosocial rehabilitation. The draft law lays down the procedures before the court, the system of health and social protection, the operator of the activity and the rights of patients during treatment in the department under special supervision, the treatment in the protected department and the supervised treatment. In the New Slovenia Group, we are aware that mental health is important for the quality of life of patients, their families and society as a whole. The social and economic price of mental illness also places a heavy burden on economic, educational, social, criminal and judicial systems. However, mental disorders are among the leading causes of absence from work, early retirement and invalidity pensions, and we therefore support the proposed Mental Health Act, but we are aware of the need for further changes and additions. It is therefore also appropriate to take into account the relevant comments and practice will also show a lot. Additional financial resources and the regulation of specific areas with sub-legislative acts will be needed. Taking care of mental health is not just a matter of individuals but of society as a whole. The area is extremely sensitive, as it is also a matter of human rights, so we expect a great deal of caution, in particular in increasing the level of control, restrictions on rights, prescriptions of medicines and specific treatment methods, and it seems important in particular to pursue the objective of returning patients to society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u254	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honourable Minister with co-workers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. According to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the area of mental health or treatment should be adequately regulated for two main reasons. The first most important reason, in our opinion, is to help and protect those who need it when they cannot help themselves, especially more measures to prevent mental disorders and diseases. And second reason: timely action due to the financial dimension entailed by the treatment of long-term diseases, which are certainly among them or at least most of them. Shocking are the figures in the introduction of the explanation of the law, which show the state and rise of the disease and the disturbances that are among all the diseases in the most acute increase, resulting in the economic burden of the current 10% in 2020 rising to 15% and exceeding the costs of coronary diseases. The worst situation is shown in the number of suicides in Slovenia. Where to find the reasons? We need to emerge from the general situation in the world, that is, in society as a whole, and act in a timely manner. It is necessary to imagine and find the causes, to invest more in preventing lasting consequences and long-term diseases. The fact is that the population is old, and unfortunately, the age causes diseases that are mostly due to neglect in youth or injury. In Slovenia, we know that there is a strong excessive number of injuries at work, too many deaths among women due to cancer, too many coronary diseases between men and others. Despite the fact that Slovenia, in the field of psychiatric care in the 1970s, introduced modern forms of psychiatric treatment, such as therapeutic communities and psychiatric dispenser, among the first in the world, on the other hand, we can find that institutions and specialists in Slovenia are unevenly distributed, since the majority of these are from 190 to 102 in Ljubljana, 36 in Maribor. In addition, staff and institutions are understaffed. If we are to look at the objectives set by the drafter of the law, of course, we must attach to the proposal of the law. In particular, the law should regulate the protection of the rights of persons with mental health problems, by means of a system of representation that complements and builds up the right of representation in accordance with the law on patient rights. It is also necessary to establish a legal framework for the full and long-term protection of mental health, including controlled treatment intended for persons with severe mental illness after discharge, and in particular their rehabilitation and reintegration into society. Nor is it possible to challenge the principles followed in the law by the applicant: in principle, a state of law which provides for the obligation to represent a lawyer before the court of that person. The law also follows the principle of legality and the principle of proportionality when setting limits on rights, as it is stipulated that restrictions on human rights and fundamental freedoms are permissible only if absolutely necessary. In the principle of legality, the introduction of a decision by a court of detention and protection in special departments should give due consideration to the procedures and method of rapid judgement and decision-making in a court of law. It is essential that the law also lays down procedures and cases where protection, detention and special treatment are necessary before a court decision is reached. In such cases, when such drastic action is needed - it is mostly a matter of urgency and waiting for a court decision would be even more damaging to the patient than it is to protect him. In such cases, a special admission procedure should be laid down in emergency cases under the special supervision of a psychiatric hospital because it is without the consent of the affected person. The law follows the principles of urgency by requiring that proceedings be brought before a court, the time limit for their execution should be short because it usually takes too long to obtain a court decision, which could also be fatal for the patient. We expect that in the courts there will be special departments or specialists who will know the specific area for which they will decide. We believe that it is high time, by law, to establish a legal basis for the adoption of a national programme for the protection of mental health which will define a strategy and a five-year action plan for the protection of mental health; the objectives, organisation, development and tasks of the operators, the network of programme and service providers, the mandate holders of the national programme and the basis for the evaluation of this programme. The law before us deals with very sensitive matter, so it is necessary to take time and think carefully about the solutions and take into account the opinion of the profession, so we also agreed to have a general discussion. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposal for a law is also suitable for further consideration, taking into account the above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Ms Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u256	Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and colleagues! I also particularly welcome Minister Zofija Mazej Kukovic and take advantage of the opportunity to invite her, however, to attend some meetings of the Committee on Health in the National Assembly, because of the fact that she has not yet been on our committee since her election, and we would like to do so very much, so I would also like to say this directly to her. Now for the Mental Health Act. This is a law that we can say has a very long beard, since, as has been said many times today, we have waited for it for 15 years. A number of calls were made by experts and NGOs and the 2003 Constitutional Court decision on the unconstitutional detention of persons in psychiatric health organisations and a number of working groups, saints and commissions. And today we are really happy, and when we have to be commended, then we really have to be commended, and in this sense I think that the Minister deserves to be commended that the law, although we are just before the end of our work, has come to the National Assembly and that there are opportunities for us to adopt it in this mandate. However, we believe that, with constant demands and in some way even threats, that one of these many versions of the law that we have seen, we have also tabled ourselves, in short, that with these requirements we have partly contributed to the fact that the law is before us, also Members and Members of our Zares Group. In our view, the law is still, unfortunately, not fully harmonised. Today it has already been said that we have actually been able to read because we alone do not know that at some point one of those options has been put into the procedure, which was not in line with all those involved in the preparation. But anyway, the law is here and we have every opportunity in Parliament to complement it, and to do so today, because we have made this debate, in which colleagues and colleagues have already pointed out some concerns. I also believe that it is completely unproductive that we are looking for the culprits and the reasons for this long-term calvary of the law, but we must now, in this month and a half, direct all energy to additions and changes that would further improve the law. It is obvious that this area, which, in some way, is part of society’s occupation, on the other hand, is true that, as has been said many times today, the number of mental disorders is indeed on the rise. Unfortunately, however, we can see that there is no profession and still does not find a common language on some of the most sensitive issues regulated by the law. In doing so, I would like to point out, first of all, that, at the moment, the biggest problem in the field under consideration is unequal access to suitable institutions and psychiatrists, as treatment and continuous monitoring in the local environment are essential for early identification of deterioration. Unfortunately, we did not guarantee this accessibility in Slovenia. The situation is particularly critical in Primorsk, Koroška and Dolenjska, as the text before the law states. The Ministry is also responsible for the highly uneven distribution of psychiatrists, according to our assessment, who, because of the apparently unregulated and unprepared network, does not see it - in short, does not manage it. We also paid attention to how concessions are granted. It is clear that concessions have also been awarded mainly to central Slovenia and Maribor in the last period, where almost 70% of all Slovenian psychiatrists work. And if we look at statistics on how it is in this area, then we have to say that if we only compare Slovenia with Austria, which is quite on average, as far as this is concerned, then it is clear that we have very large, interesting, psychiatric beds, we have 10,000 more inhabitants than Austria has, we have 8.4 per 10,000 inhabitants, while the Austrians have 6.5; however, there is a strong malnutrition in the personnel working in this area - for those who are supposed to make up a team of experts in the future. In short, we have absolutely few experts, including those who operate in non-governmental organisations. And of course I'm talking here about that in Slovenia we have only 0.04 social workers per 10,000 inhabitants, in Austria there are 10.3 per 10,000 inhabitants. We have 0.16 per 10,000 inhabitants, in Austria we have 4.9 neurologists in Slovenia 0.08 per 10,000 inhabitants, in Austria 0.8 and psychiatrists we have 0.53 per 10,000 inhabitants in Slovenia, in Austria 1.18. In short, perhaps it would be necessary, Madam Minister, to consider whether or not you would suggest such ratings as may be proposed by the Minister of Defence for soldiers, so that perhaps these personnel, which are so very lacking, could receive such ratings as those of kindergartens and so on - I am just stressing this more in terms of cynicism. The law, according to our assessment, adequately regulates the rights of patients, especially those individuals who, because of mental disturbances, endanger themselves and the environment and must be forcibly hospitalized and treated against their will, and special treatments and protective measures are also used. With regard to the procedures for compulsory hospitalisation, however, I would like to point out that, despite this decision of the Constitutional Court, they have, in some way, been adequately regulated, sufficiently fast, because they had to be decided within three days and also with appropriate legal protection, since it has taken care of it since the decision itself. However, I think we need to listen to the warnings of the profession that say or somehow remind us of the great fear in this sense that the proposed solution may be a new solution, perhaps that this proposed solution is too bureaucratic, too complicated and that it includes the number of people, too many persons to exercise this control. I think that, however, the psychiatric professions in Slovenia need to be trusted, not least I do not know any specific exposed cases, which would not speak in favour of working very professionally, since, in this sense, such an accentuated and precisely defined procedure may be greatly prolonged and at a certain stage may also endanger patients who might be treated inappropriately during this intermediate phase. We will be here, and we expect these reflections to take a closer look, however, and that this may be handled better. And in view of what I said earlier, we need to be careful that we do not overly burden them and take away their valuable time for diagnosis and treatment. Here I think it takes one healthy measure of reason. In doing so, as some others, I would also like to point out to anachronism in some way and the absurdity of mentioning two methods in law, psychosurgery as a method that we write that should not be allowed, and so-called electroconvulsive therapy, in short, electroshocks, which, according to our information and data, have not been in use for decades. The first is not to be used for more than 60 years and the second for more than 20 years. Therefore, it is necessary to consider whether it is necessary to specifically mention them or even eliminate them in the law. I would stress that one is still written among the permitted methods. The law also introduces an advocate as an expert who will protect and protect the rights of users and exercise control. This seems an appropriate solution to us, but until the next treatment, it may be necessary to examine the appropriateness of the education and knowledge that this advocate must have, because knowledge must be extremely large, and our assessment is that knowledge of the area of disease, the forms of treatment with medicines and the like is also crucial. We also welcome the regulation of the area of sick treatment of users, in particular the post-release aid network and the promotion of government and non-governmental cooperation and health and social protection organisations. The law is also a suitable basis for the development of a national programme for the protection of mental health, which will define a network of community assistance and support. These include employment, housing units, mobile units on the ground, the role and importance of NGOs in this area, the role of social work centres and the organisation of users and relatives, who are also important members of the network. If, in this period of time, we have been able to read a lot about this area in the media, to monitor what was actually the most stressed, then I can say that it seems to me that this is the very area of work after being dismissed from the institution or after finishing treatment is extremely sensitive and extremely poorly arranged and that, in fact, both patients and relatives have remained very lonely here. In doing so, I must say that it will certainly have to be animated in a certain way, as with drugs, the local community. I think that they could play an extremely important role in today's affairs, particularly in this area of later integration into society, and I think that this role is also attributed to them by the Green Paper of this area, which has been adopted. Here I think we still have something to do in Slovenia. True, many things show very good results after a few years. If, for example, we look at how local communities are involved in the field of drugs in, say, these organizations in Las and so on, I think it would be good to animate local communities. Of course, we are concerned about the law - as well as, I think, the Ombudsman - with very long deadlines for the enforcement of the law as well as for the preparation of sub-laws and the national programme. Thus, it is reasonable to conclude that, despite the fact that we may have adopted the law in the National Assembly by summer, at least a year is not the right conditions for all these acts to be adopted by law and by the other things necessary to enforce the law. In fact, we can now know that at least a year from now there will be no real implementation of this law in life. In the Group of Members, we are indeed pleased and welcome the current interdisciplinary orientation of the law and the approach to this issue, which allows for the sharing of responsibility between different providers of services and mental health programmes and is also the basis for an integrated treatment of persons with disabilities. Psychiatry, in our view, needs to get out of closed institutions and connect with others in working groups at local level as the most important thing, I will say, a modern and advanced method in the exercise of mental health in its entirety and in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u257	Thank you very much. We have ended by shifting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the general debate of Members and Members. Member Ivan Grill has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u258	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues and co-workers! In opening, allow me to truly congratulate you and thank you for the courage and determination that you have made so much effort during this time and, as I mentioned, also the determination that you have put this so-called law into the parliamentary procedure. We have already heard today that 15 years since this law was being prepared, it has been coordinated, there has been no consensus, perhaps not enough courage or consensus. This is what we are witnessing today that you have achieved and, as I have already mentioned, outstanding thanks and congratulations. I am also pleased that today we have been able to listen to the thanks of both my predecessor and another fellow Member to thank you for this law, even though we were just by these two witnesses to the discreditation of your presentation when you were in a position to become the Minister of this very difficult department. So you have now proved that the discredit was unjustifiable, and I think that this proverb is that the denied bread is the most eaten today in force. With your work, with your many difficult laws that you have drawn up at this time, and other measures, you have proved to be a part of this difficult department. As I have already mentioned, this law is extremely demanding, it deals with a sensitive area and here many matters need to be coordinated and also regulated. Here, it must be noted that the limit between the protection of human rights and also the treatments required by professionals in the case of mental patients is extremely blurred and it is necessary to be extremely careful and to have a number of safeguards that can also prevent potential abuse, both professional or individual interests. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have received numerous visits, including e-mails, requests, in particular family members who have mental patients, asking that this law be considered and adopted, because this law is expected to be regulated in a number of unregulated areas so far. I am so sure that you will also receive thanks from many relatives. As we know, at least that's how we were informed in the parliamentary group, this law has been given a number of coordinations, including among the departments affected by this matter. Once virtually everything has been agreed on, it has turned out that once again there are individual areas that have not been fully harmonised and have always been a dilemma, whether to go into the procedure with this law or not. You have finally decided, and even though things are not fully coordinated, especially among the ministries, today there is a law before us and, if necessary, we will be able to fix it. However, it would probably be pointless to expect that we could reach a perfect consensus - both between the ministries and between the professions. Here everyone looks with their own eyes, with the eyes of a profession that represents it, and here consensus cannot be. It is right that there is somewhere to find a solution that will be as acceptable as possible for all. We are extremely pleased with the Group of Members and myself personally that you have taken into account the many guidelines recommended by many international organisations in this area, and here you have taken much into account from the Green Paper, from the World Health Organization and from the United Nations. I think it is then a law that is internationally comparable, and I am sure that it will then follow both international and Slovenian norms. The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, as well as the Convention on Human Rights on Biomedicine, also seems to me that they are key areas that you have taken into account here, because I think that this can be the greatest value for Slovenian society and it is right to take it into account. Although we have already heard here in presentations that many of these special treatment methods are required, some call it bureaucratic obstructions or procedures, but I think it is right here with these guards to ensure the greatest possible safety for people with mental illness, so that they do not witness any experiment or treatment that could have irreparable consequences in the future. I think that in this way we will be able to provide optimal treatment to those patients who will need such methods and that they will also be successfully implemented. It would be good to mention here again that I received an e-mail message or appeal to introduce so-called psychiatric treatment with this law. Obviously, there has been some misinformation in the public, for this law exclusively prohibits such a method being treated and it is right to make it public. It is also true that this law provides free assistance to both representatives and those co-ordinators in controlled treatment methods and that this is also a burden of the state budget. This means that those patients who will need both counsel and legal aid or free legal aid, as well as those coordinators, will receive this free of charge. Since much has already been said in these long introductory presentations today, I myself believe that this law is a truly excellent starting point, that in the following cases, if necessary, we can complement it with those things that will be able to make the basic text, which I think is very good now, can be further improved, and that we will actually accept it at this time, and that our patients will certainly have the most of them, and especially their relatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u259	Thank you very much. However, Member Christian Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on mental health is, in my opinion, one of the most difficult materials in this mandate of the National Assembly for me as Members. Therefore, I admit, they are probably forgiven because it is one difficult work that this preparation probably took, enough, much time between all the professions that have emerged in this law. This is probably a very difficult long-term work, and obviously, after all the presentations by the members of the groups, you have done well. However, I know that there is something about Europe that already exists, and it is right that we, as a part of Europe, accept this and get this important material, which is also in line with the Constitutional Court and with some legal standards, put it in the box. For all of these patients, which unfortunately, data shows, unfortunately, they are also increasing in Slovenia and also the obvious trend, the simulations show that there will be more in the future, and it is also important that we help this patient, because such a patient in the environment, in the family, and not least in society, may become a major problem if it is not touched by this law as it is. There was much to be said about suicides, much already written in the past. I'm sure there's too many of them. The number is extremely large, because 600 a year, it's a really big number that everyone should be aware of. We will also be able to use this law, and it is likely that this law will not in itself reduce the numbers much, but there are many other areas that are likely to affect how this number would decrease. This is probably the work of many others who are better experts than we are Members who are not responsible. And I hope that a piece of this will also help this very law, which could reduce some number for next year in terms of the number of suicides. As far as home and homes are concerned for the elderly and mentally disturbed: I do not think that this network, today, has been an optimal talk. But what is, I think, is, in my opinion, because I know some of these homes in my own congregation, quality, professional and even appropriate care, at the level they deserve. I think that this society has already done a great deal on this path, that those people who are affected by such or other diseases, including adequate professional assistance, have the right comfort, and that, here and in the past, it is very much under the impression that it would be even better. And with the desire that this network would be even better where coverage is very poor. We have seen this from this material itself, that at times this distance of aid is significantly greater than it is in some places. Unfortunately, the main story is in Ljubljana, like all other things and unfortunately uncondemned landscapes that we do not have yet, could probably contribute more in the future if we once had provincial legislation. It may also be more within the framework of the provinces that the coverage of this area is ensured than today, because the concentration is exclusively more, both professional and everything else, in Ljubljana and in the area is more or less modest. However, there is still time for this in the future, and this law alone will not solve it, but it is the concern of society, countries as such, to take any further steps in this area and allow all these categories of people who need it to be treated appropriately. Around the hospitals, I think everything's fine. I think there was something already said. Those who exist in Slovenia, I think they have sufficient expertise and other conditions to be able to carry out this, in my opinion, extremely difficult mission - the treatment of such patients. Slovenia is a social state. We're proud of that. I think it's one of the more social European countries. It is right, and it is also right that this area should be regulated in a manner governed by this proposal. In the view of the Members of all the parliamentary groups, as well as the further discussion, this is a good road map for the law to go through the procedure. Perhaps another amendment will be tabled, which will be tabled through the debate, and I think that the ministry's obedience will also be if it is appropriate and good to accept it. And the law will receive one of the broadest support in this mandate of the National Assembly, which would also be a good trip for the Minister, the Ministry, as well as for Members of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Member Franz Žnidaršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with co-workers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Law on Mental Health is the law that we have long awaited and urgently need. I must say that it enjoys relatively broad support, and I believe that those small things that can be completed at the time of consideration below will also experience and thus enjoy our support further. I must say that I am pleased to see that some of the comments that have been sent to the Ministry have already been taken into account, particularly by the Ombudsman, as well as some others, and that it appears that the law will ultimately reach the form and content that has been lacking in our health legislation and will benefit the affected who need help in the context of mental health. I must say that it is particularly important that we properly rescue an agent or one who would help patients when such interventions are needed, and that this law, as a basis for the continuation of the procedure, certainly allows for all those substantive changes that may not be fully completed at this time. In this context, we support this law and we will try to cooperate further in a way that will contribute to the final form in favour of all affected patients and of course all of us who think that this area must finally be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u263	Thank you, too. Member Joseph Horvath has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u264	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister with co-workers. In view of the general support of this bill, I feel that there is a positive climate in the National Assembly at this time, although the National Assembly is relatively thin. And this positive climate certainly also affects better mental health and the greater efficiency of the National Assembly. I would like such moments much more until the end of this term. In the New Slovenia Group, we have constantly encouraged the Ministry to gather those last energy atoms, which were urgently needed for the law to be incorporated into the National Assembly. Last thing we did was at a press conference on March 6th. It's been a long time. I am pleased that many social professionals, representatives of the psychiatric profession, NGOs, the Ombudsman and so on have engaged in the formation of the law, which is a guarantee of the quality of the text of this law. However, I would like to acknowledge and congratulate the Minister on the fact that she has only managed to properly direct these last activities in the target plane and that the Ministry and this government have somehow removed the taboo label from this law. Mental health or better mental illness must be in Slovenia and even in the world they unfortunately have this mark. This is still - sorry - taboo theme and it seems that this label has also been taken up by this bill. In addition to physical health, mental health is a prerequisite for the success of the individual, as well as of the community and society as a whole. In recent years mental health has gained significance in many international movements, associations and agendas. As far back as the 12th World Health Organisation Programme 'Health for All till 2000', which can be referred to as one of the biggest trends in public health history, it was stated that by 2000, by 2000, there should be a permanent and continuous reduction in the incidence of mental disorders, improving the quality of life of people with such disorders and achieving a reduction, a reduction in growing negative trends. We wonder if we have achieved these goals - unfortunately not. Not in 2008 either. Mental health problems continue to grow, according to the World Health Organization. Even now, about 450 million people worldwide suffer from these problems. This is about as much as we live in the European Union. According to experts, depression is expected to be one of the main public health problems in the near future in 2020. About a million people around the world have knowledge every year in a situation where they can't see the way out. Mental health problems are, therefore, far more present than expected. Many people talk more about mental problems than they do about physical ones. The reasons lie in the stigma of mental disorders and people with these disorders, in the conviction that this is our personal matter, in the sense that it cannot be helped, in negative past experiences, in fear of losing common sense and could still be listed. However, experience in both our country and abroad shows that many things can be done to strengthen, preserve and restore mental health and, on the other hand, to manage mental disorders successfully. We're all responsible for this. All individuals in everyday situations where there should be room and time for human and emotional warmth, for the development of a good self-image, for genuine contacts with their neighbors, the wider environment and also with nature, employers, education and policy planners, to provide such working, learning and living environments that will promote the optimal development of the individual, experts in various fields of public awareness, identification of problems and the provision of timely and optimal forms of assistance to people in mental and other distress. I personally firmly believe that the proposal for a law is a good basis for further consideration. I am also convinced that by supplementing it, it can be further improved. And I am also sure that it will be useful for Slovenian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u265	Thank you very much. But the word is from Comrade Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u266	Thank you so much for saying that. Several of my speakers have mentioned that the law has been in preparation for many years, that there have been many professional colleagues, people who know each other in any way, and so we have a product. We will probably never reach complete agreement, as in many other areas, other laws, strategies, programmes and so on. However, it must be stressed that the high level of consensus is, for the first time, agreement on what should be, what content should be in this law, what should be determined and what should be determined. In this law there are some doctrinal issues and very important decisions that are being broken by spears: forced hospitalisation, supervision of how to implement, or leave to psychiatrists as medics to decide for themselves on the use of medical methods, with Hippocrates' oath. But we know that the world has moved on, that these experiences have shown that this treatment is slightly different and we need to put it in place, all of these experiences that have arisen, regrettably, in history, also tragic, forced hospitalisation, some of the treatment methods that have left consequences in the somatic, and also in mental health. So we can say that on the one hand these questions are forced hospitalizations, the use of methods, supervisors, then coordinators, and some similar ones. On the other hand, this law on the structure of hospital care of various forms, therapeutic methods. Here, of course, the law touches things in the right direction and defines this structure. But what matters is what happens to implementation. But there's important money, will, knowledge, not the law itself. We have all the extensions of sickness care, we have daily centres, living communities, rehabilitation workshops, disabled companies, NGOs, then offices, not to mention, the whole spectrum that touches this rehabilitation in a social or work-employment sense. However, both salaries, both hospital and hospital, are equally important and it is irrelevant that we put ourselves above each other. On the other hand, it would not agree to a sub-division or principle that the authority of psychiatry must be somehow undermined. This is not necessary at all, as this can be the case in the very sense of the word with these other alternative and complementary methods and procedures for the rehabilitation of patients. It is also likely that this law does not depend on how Slovenia and this area will deal with some very important issues of the Slovenian nation. As already mentioned, the question of suicides, where we are at the very top of the world, I think we are 5. as far as the general is concerned, 9th as regards young people. This is a very disturbing information. And that and just a matter of psychiatry, but the whole society, how it will deal with this issue. Of course, this particular profession plays a leading role. So far, it has been mainly said how this is a problem, how we are going to deal with it or how we are going to do something in terms of implementation, but not, in particular, what the results show. On the other hand, these border areas, which are not just this narrow mental health, the contemporary effects of stress, mobbing and a series of phenomena that are perceived by the profession and are also an integral part of this diagnosis in addition to psychosis and these lighter neuroses, psychonervous and then depression and similar. The whole palette is these issues, which are not so subject to the law itself, but to implementation. At that time, however, it is likely that some spears will break, how much money will be provided, that is for sure how we will organize these services, how we will deal with networks, all these offices, rehabilitation workshops, housing communities. How we will cover even Slovenia, that it will be accessible to the patient at best, that he will not be hospitalized, I don't know where, but that he will be near his environment. The weakest thing I can say for sure is the so-called social rehabilitation, integration into the family environment, integration into the neighbour's environment, which is still a problem of stigma. When mental patients are a few pages away, watching them on TV or in the city, they do not present us with any special problems, at least for most people. But they still enforce and execute prejudices when it's the nearest neighbor, or in the family itself. Concealing the patient and the like. This aspect is still quite an open book. It's also a work integration. Re-inclusion in employment, receiving a mental patient or a cured patient, a rehabilitated person without stigma, without being looked at by his fellow workers. It's not just a psychiatric profession. Therefore, psychiatry, all those in the medical profession, is still important to appear also in articles, not only professional magazines, but to appear in the media in a simple, simple way to enlighten and explain to the ordinary person what it is like not only in strict academic circles. However, the academic level of hospitals must be raised. I don't mean to say it's not on the right level, but it's still possible to lift it. Thus, in some areas, including in psychiatry, Slovenia would have made a breakthrough where it would have been leading among the countries of Europe. At least on some segments, however, why not pool the goals, the money, including from the European Structural Funds, with the aim of improving what is not so much the subject of this law, but the object of implementation. Thank you very much. The law is well prepared for the starting point. But of course, there will always be something else that can be improved. Sometimes, though, something goes wrong in this will after improvement. But that's the way it is in life.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Member Drago Koren has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u268	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to the Minister and her co-workers, co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! I, too, must say at the outset that I welcome and I am glad that it has only come to this moment that we are considering this proposal for a law on mental health today in the National Assembly. I think that the argument that this was really necessary is that we all agree with this statement. I am also pleased that a very broad range of professions has really been involved in the preparation of this law. This also assures me somewhere that the law is good, although I am sure that there can be a number of improvements to it, but for starters this legal framework for an integrated and long-term design of mental health protection is only appropriate. Although it has also been noted in this case that the profession also has different views on various matters, but that this proposal is, in view of this wide circle, which has participated in the preparation of certainly the best that could be achieved at present. As a non-expert, I would not go into detail into the very contents of this law, because I am sure that the preparers have presented to us what is currently best available to present, but I have wondered a lot and I have imagined how this disease of mental health, this mental distress, stress, depression is actually spreading. In particular, I have been thinking about how the marriage itself will handle the issue, but with regard to those factors that cause depression, distress and stress in society, it is necessary to ask what we can do to ease these factors somewhere. Many times I meet and find that only work for someone can be stressful, an inappropriate relationship of superiors can cause many workers to experience severe mental distress, resulting in depression and so on. I am also very surprised at the information that we have been large users of various tranquilizers and tranquilizers in Slovenia. I think that the Ministry of Health still has a lot of work to do here to address these negative factors that cause us to try even more in this area in our society, so that these factors can be eliminated in the pool, which is certainly possible. There was a lot of talk about suicide. I think it's all a reflection of the situation in some society. And I'd say if we look at this situation from this angle, it's not good. And we need to make sure that this improves. With regard to the law, I will end by thinking that it is suitable for further use, that it will be especially pleased with those whose marriage is most concerned, and perhaps their relatives. For these, it will certainly bring a number of significant changes, and this will improve for the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u269	Thank you very much. However, Member Mira Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u270	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to the Minister and her colleagues, of course I am to my fellow Members and colleagues! The bill on mental health was necessary, and we really waited a long time for it. Seems like in the past we wouldn't be able to get to that hard nut. That's why all the recognition goes to this government and the ministry and the minister. This authority has finally come to realize that mental health must become a public health priority. It is interesting to see that in 2004 the World Health Organization published data that between 12% and 15% of diagnosed mental disorders end with disability, representing 30% of all years lost due to premature death or disability. That's the information we should be worried about. And that means that the number is the same as the number of heart and blood vessels, or twice as high as the number of cancers. The problem in Slovenia is the same or the same. There are about 100,000 depressive conditions and about 10,000 psychotic diseases per 2 million inhabitants at the moment. There's been a lot of talk about suicide here today. The number of suicides in the European Union is strongly higher than the number of victims of traffic accidents or those who died after AIDS. And this also applies to Slovenia, which is at an infamous world summit with 600 suicides a year. Some experts write and say that in Slovenia we should necessarily reduce the number of psychiatric beds in order to need about 500 beds less than we have and that a different way of implementing such as institutionalised psychiatric care, such as community psychiatry, is necessary. I believe that before or at the same time we should do something else, namely to regulate equal access to mental health throughout the country. It has been repeatedly mentioned here that Koroška, together with the coastal and lower regions, does not have the same access to psychiatric treatment as other parts of the country. This distance from the psychiatric hospital, of course, means less communication between patients and relatives. But contact, as we know, is also a crucial element in the treatment of an individual. Since there are not enough psychiatrists in the level region, outpatient treatment is also disabled. This, on the other hand, means greater pressure on hospitals. And this is also one of the sad consequences of the work of the previous governments. In the Republic of Slovenia we have this time six psychiatric hospitals and none in the Koro region or in the health region of Ravne in Koroškem. It would be so difficult to talk today about such a popular disinstitutionalisation of psychiatry, because in fact we have not yet achieved the real institutionalisation of psychiatry in Koroška. However, modern treatment requires a combination of all: outpatient treatment, hospital treatment and various care within the community and so on. Of these 190 psychiatrists, as much as in Slovenia, 102 of whom work in Ljubljana, comes to Koroška or health region of Ravna all one psychiatrist, meaning seven thousand psychiatrists per inhabitant. That's a long way to go in the country. Of course, Koroška is going out in the Slovenian space with regard to suicides. Certainly the law is an excellent foundation and it will certainly be complemented in the future, but above all it must not be the mental health of that gray fox that we have not discussed very much in Slovenia so far. On the basis of this law, a national programme for the protection of mental health will also be adopted. Here I would call on the preparers, the Government, to include in this programme a chapter on information and media. For us, the most common treatment of mental health is in relation to certain excesses, violent acts of a mental patient, although these violent acts of mental patients are no more common than they are for the entire population. As a result of this kind of presentation in the public is emphasising, painting the negative image of the mental field. On the other hand, this also leads to an increase in impatience and rejection of mental patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u271	Thank you very much. I invite you to my word, Ambassador Cveto Zalokar Orazem. [[She's not here.]] Member Maja Zupan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Once again, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Once again, I would like to acknowledge to the Minister and the entire ministry that it has listened to the demands from different sides and has drawn up a mental health law, because we have been one of the few countries in Europe that so far do not have such a roofing law in this area. It seems important to me that in the drafting of the law it has worked, that it has gone wide, that a lot of stakeholders have participated - from profession to civil associations, and that the proposal of the law brings about the consideration of the integrated field of psychiatric treatment with emphasis and focus on the patient. We must be aware that mental health or unhealthyness is, if we want to, a large absence from work, early disability retirement, as a result of low pensions and therefore a short step towards poverty. I support and expect that the law will respond to the problems and dilemmas of patients, their relatives, professions and, ultimately, the society which is also obliged to take care of this area, which is all too often the dark side of citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u273	Thank you, too. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u274	Thank you. I have already said before that I will not oppose the adoption of a decision that the law is a suitable basis for further consideration. But I'm not going to say too much excitement right now, because I'd rather wait for the law to be implemented in my life. Some recent experience shows that such excellent laws cannot prevent tragic events in any society. And I would like to see the full realization of Article 3 of this Law, which states: "Any form of neglect based on mental disorder is prohibited." Too often, I have had the opportunity to realize that life is not ideal enough for all to have sufficient understanding for people with minor, permanent or occasional mental disorders. And this is actually what makes me optimistic, however, that understanding society for the problems of people with mental disorders will slowly improve and that our common awareness of how to help people will increase, given that the picture of future life is not showing us any perspective. If I think about the fact that experts believe that 50% of the population at a high age will be confronted with dementia, if we know that the unadaptability of our institutional or other care for the treatment of the elderly is significant and that unfortunately we are now talking about age as a problem, but not as a period in which it is possible to survive qualitatively, and we could be looking forward to a longer life span, it is precisely because of what I am talking about now, this threat of high disease is something that is less optimistic than work, when we look at our life expectancy or whatever we want to say to the ageing process. I would like to draw attention to another aspect of my confrontation with those who must accept in any way that their mental health is not disturbed. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] It's about those who have this problem, especially their relatives. [[...]] And I think it's the duty of the law to take care of it, or it's the society's duty to do more to help those who face it so that they can recognize the signs more quickly. And when some were so optimistic that the law itself would bring about a reduction in suicide [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In Slovenia, unfortunately, I am not so optimistic. [[...]] I think we're going to have to do a lot of other things to keep these worst forms as small as possible. So I want the law to succeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u275	Thank you very much. I'm asking the proposer, or does he want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u276	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, let me thank you for this sentiment toward the fellow man who was expressed today in the entire hall. I should also like to thank the colleagues and the colleagues who have worked very hard and the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, who did not have a lot of comments this time, even though additional resources are foreseen over the coming years. Here we found a common language, and that that was the option, which was a great demand, which the version of the law now even came into line, came the one that we were all able to reconcile together last intersectorally. Interresor coordination was after the profession, when they all somehow gave their consent, was extremely difficult due to these sensitive open issues, which are mainly linked here on the one hand to social, on the other hand to the courts and so on. There were some interim recommendations that we will, of course, try to take into account during the next stages, some interpretations of those issues that you had today and I would like to make here. I very much agree with this conclusion that, lastly, everything depends on whether or not it depends on good implementation. The law introduces truly new structures, introduces representatives, coordinators, co-ordinators for community treatment, as well as co-ordinators for controlled treatment and, of course, existing hospitals and a new relationship, i.e. how to move part of the treatment from psychiatric hospitals even closer to the patient. All of this will require one extremely broad awareness of the whole society, one enlightenment that you have started to spread here today with these debates. Stigmation, too. So, don't talk about it. If this is discussed so openly in Parliament, as has been said today, it will help to open up this topic in working environments and everywhere. Especially in the workplace, where it is most important to allow a person who has mental health problems to return to work. I can also tell by the experience of my previous work that this is the greatest cure. The biggest medicine is when a person gets the opportunity and at the same time the importance of being of benefit to himself and of being of benefit to a wider society. And it's certainly not just treatment with the systems that are envisaged here, but it's also about accepting people with these kinds of problems in a wider society. Surely this approach needs to be expanded and expanded. Also at EU level, a final conference will be held in Brussels on 13 June on this subject and it is very important that Slovenia can also show within Europe that it has taken a step forward. Of course, the law does not yet solve the number of personnel that is critical. Clearly, if there are 102 psychiatrists in Ljubljana, the whole of Slovenia will then remain between 80 and 90 so that it cannot be evenly accessible to the network. The network is not actually set up, we will put it through a national plan within one year after the law is passed. But the network can be drawn and written, and it is much harder to establish sufficient personnel to cover these regions, such as Koroška, where we have heard that nothing needs to be taken from institutions at home, because institutions are not at all. So we have very different solutions and unequal solutions in the Slovenian space. When the question of representatives was where they would be first, because it would go gradually, surely first where the areas were most fed and where the incidence of this type of disease was greatest. Specific methods are provided for and defined in this Act. Why are three methods specifically written? In order to make it clear that they exist because they also existed today, they were not only implemented in Slovenia, but the patients were sent out of Slovenia. That's why it's fair to define these methods here in law. However, as far as surgical procedures are concerned, it is evident that these methods are not actually permitted by law nor are they used in us anymore. And so in this part of the special methods, we have somehow come to the agreement that these methods need clear control. This isn't about mistrust. Absolutely not. Nobody understands that. But when it comes to such serious matters when it comes to restricting human rights, there is probably no harm in setting up one structure that actually complements one another. And this right that today such a patient has the right to a lawyer who has to go through a court, that this is limited to three days, that things have to happen in very short, prescribed times, all of this means that they will not be denied the right of someone who could possibly be placed in a closed department, for which, of course, I believe, someone has decided that it is also useful, but somehow by consensus, that we also have this kind of control. That is why there has also been a great deal of professional work here with justice. In fact, the hardest thing was to find solutions here for all these areas. It is also very important that all operators, including non-governmental organisations, including non-governmental organisations, will be involved in the network. Why? Because many in the developed countries are aware that we, as a whole society, must keep an eye on this and that we are helping to rehabilitate or maintain a situation that is not good for all of us. And that's why there's a lot of volunteers today. It was the representatives of these volunteers who were at the Ministry and also told about the experiences and the problems they have and can be solved by law. And if there is no such support as it was before we put the marriage into Parliament, I must tell you that I have been asking myself, and what is really wrong with it, why this law is not here, what is behind it. That was my question until today when I came to Parliament. Since deciding on something that we know is beneficial to all of us together, one act that is probably noble enough not to be placed under a table or under a rug. And when it was mentioned that we also involve or mention the media or know them somehow to give space, it is very important that there are also positive images, positive reporting for those who have mental health problems. And why the address of mental health? Because we also wanted to dissigmate this area somehow, not to characterise it further. That's why the word "person" instead of "patient" in the law is not the one who was once a psychiatrist, it's already further characterized that the patient and that he can't actually get to work, not sign up for some competition and so on. And these were key guidelines for why we also tried to put this terminology on a positive side, including taking into account most of the comments made by the Ombudsman. And just to establish the conditions they have, I might just mention America, where this is much more normal, where people realize that they are interdisciplinary teams, psychologists, psychiatrists, sociologists, in fact, an essential part of society, an integral part that an individual can run into when he needs it. And we, too, were aware in this law that there is a need for interdisciplinaryness, that only psychiatrists cannot solve problems here, so we have also professionally defined other professions, which today are a little more pious. But when we set up a network, when we see how much resources we have in our personnel and how much we need to have, then we will be able to apply that idea more easily. With regard to the funds, let me say that the funds are calculated on all sorts of real data that exist today. Here are funds mainly from the Ministry of Labour and from the Ministry of Justice from the Ministry of Health to a lesser extent. And that it will cost us in a few years, because the curve will rise according to the implementation of this law, we will arrive at EUR 5, 6, 7 million per year, at all costs. But with these millions of euros we will really be able to serve one very broad population and help make it feel better and safer. For psychiatrists, once again, it is not the purpose of this law to step on the fingers of psychiatrists. It's not a target, of course not. It is true, as I mentioned earlier, that we are complementing each other and that at the end of the day, one man does not know everything. This is known everywhere, it is self-evident, and in health we build this culture of teamwork, not only in this area but also in others. And especially because we are aware that this time when a person is somewhere in an institution, when someone else cares for him, is usually limited, and that it is especially necessary to look at what it is like to return to the family, how it is to return to society by returning to work. The Commission for Medical Ethics here is the one that has to approve specific treatment methods. And also this European Commission, representatives of the European Commission on Ethics, held a conference in the spring months of Brdo. Of course, I have listened to and read some material on this subject, and I think that the decisions of such a commission are not too much and that, here and there, looking back at these ethical standards, it doesn't hurt us all. If I mention how many of those or those comments you made here and those we received during the drafting of the law, I will mention just a few more, but I believe that group and inter-departmental cooperation will be able to take into account a significant part of what you have proposed today. Of course, from the expanded expert psychiatry colleges, which, as an expert, also had quite a few additions to mention, we also followed the recommendations of the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers on the protection of human rights and the dignity of persons with mental disabilities, the Convention on Human Rights on Biomedicine and, of course, the decision of the Constitutional Court. With regard to the international comparison, I can say that there are also no uniform treatments between the old members, but 8 of these, and among them Austria and the nearest countries are those, the Netherlands, Portugal, the United Kingdom, and those who have, in a similar way as we have set up here, also defined legislation. I'll talk to you about the agents. If I mention it in a little more detail, because I think there were a lot of questions about that. In fact, the proposed solution for a mental health representative builds up the institution of a patient's right under the patient's rights law. In the performance of its tasks, the patient's representative shall, inter alia, advise the patient on the content of his or her rights as a healthcare user. We believe that the rights under the law on patient rights and the proposal for a law on mental health are by no means excluded, but are being supplemented. It is important that both agents protect the rights of patients, each in accordance with their respective competences. This allows an individual to perform the functions of both agents if he fulfils the conditions under both of these laws. And maybe one more thing about NGOs. Let me say that we have also taken into account this suggestion that the patient is not a patient, but a person. That we have taken note of the observation that the Community coordinator cannot perform his work as an honorary function, so employment is now envisaged and there is great progress in doing so. The remark that the working group cannot be defined in advance in the implementation of the Community examination plan and is, of course, already covered by the text of the bill. So much for NGOs. However, as regards the Committee of the Natives, we have taken note of the comment on the notification of the limitation of rights under this Act by informing the court of the persons provided for in the law. We have taken into account the comment and the deadline within which the receiving doctor should inform the person of his or her emergency admission, i.e. within four hours. A comment on the evaluation of the Community treatment plan after six months is taken into account. A comment on the work experience for the Community hearing coordinator within three years is taken into account. And I could count it. These are just some specific things we've been going through. But let me mention that bylaws take six months and the national programme takes one year from the adoption of the law so that we can do it in a qualitative manner. That time to shorten, it wouldn't be real. In particular, I can mention from the Patient Rights Act that so much work has been done with these sub-laws and with individual coordinations that it will pass very quickly here for a few months. So it's not that we don't want to, but it's just that the subject is so sensitive that it's right to take all of us together for this little bit more time. And clearly, in the national plan, there will be a network, a network that will now be a map to be filled with real capacities, and this is a real long-term work. But the important thing is that we have somehow started this work today, and I believe that we will also finish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u277	Thank you, too. Can I close the debate? Thank you. So I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, in accordance with the meeting's timetable, on Thursday, 22. 5. In the context of the votes. This also interrupts this agenda item. And we're moving on to 24. Agenda item - First of all, the proposal for a law amending the law on the harmonisation of transfers by individuals and the rule of law in the Republic of Slovenia, the ordinary procedure. I would like to inform you that we have a three-hour and 18-minute debate on this item. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members, with first-signed mags. France Gnyardsich. With regard to this bill, a group of eleven Members and Members, also with first-signed Member France Žnidaršič, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I therefore give the floor to Mr Žnidaršić, the bill's proposer for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u278	Dear Mr. Vice President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The current law on the coordination of transfers in the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted in autumn 2006 together with the budgetary documents, was not in line with the social partners. Its consequences were: the freezing of social transfers, such as family benefits, social support, housing, scholarships of all kinds, compensation to those infected with HIV for transfusions, pensions under the law on victims of war violence, the law on war veterans and the law on the special rights of victims of war for Slovenia, the rights of war disabled persons, short-term rights paid from state budgets and less from municipal budgets. Freezement of rights under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act: allowance for assistance and services, annual allowance, invalidity, compensation for partial disability, professional rehabilitation and waiting for it and compensation for salary at the time of reduction of personal income in another job. Freezement of rights under the Health Insurance Act: sick, partial invalidity pension, temporary compensation and disability compensation. The freezing of rights under the law on unemployment insurance and the freezing of rights under the law on the maintenance protection of farmers when it comes to subsistence. All these rights remained nominally the same throughout 2007 as in the previous year, at a time of high economic growth and the projected budget surplus. Although the current harmonisation law is speaking, there was no coordination since inflation was lower than the year before in January 2007. For example, the law was designed to ensure that, at the same rate of inflation, the rights listed could be maintained for a decade or more without any increase. In reality, they would fall all the time, as they fell last year, so the rest would be nominally the same. At the time of the adoption of uniform coordination, the government forgot that different ways of coordination had been created due to the different nature of rights and had overlooked the deterioration of the situation of the majority of beneficiaries. In the fact that some enjoyed rights unjustifiably, the Government punished everything by freezing, and later it found that it had gone too far and predicted a uniform way of breaking itself with the Protection Supplement Act, in part with the Family Benefits Act. The problem is also that the government has mixed social transfers into the same basket and many rights under the Insurance Act without proposing changes to those or reducing the contribution rates because they were the right reduction. There is also no proposal for amending the sectoral laws where certain rights are still written as such. In 2007, the government did nothing to facilitate the situation of beneficiaries, irrespective of the rapid inflation growth, which was unexpected and disproportionately high food prices. The DeSUS Group already wanted to reduce the consequences of the current law by means of a law on the termination of the law and because it was not adopted, the proposed law offers a solution that would actually ensure a uniform way of coordination, but not to the detriment of the beneficiaries. The ongoing deterioration of the social situation of 10 000 in the given situation justifies support for the proposed solutions, as it does not justify the Government's argument that transfers will then grow as wages, as pensions do not grow as well. As regards the financial implications, there is no problem, they will certainly be less than the budget surplus forecast. It should also be noted that the savings achieved by freezing last year will also be achieved every year, although invisible, on a life-long reduced basis. DeSUS believes that the law is good, necessary and open to improvement, so we expect it to be assessed as a good enough basis for continuing the adoption process. The law is acceptable to all who want to preserve the social state, the sense of human beings and solidarity, so you can support all those who understand the welfare so that everyone in this country has at least more and no less than that with the adoption of the law in 2007. The adoption of this law will prove that, for example, the coalition is still sensitive enough to change, which also requires amended decisions and will support the law, otherwise voters will have to consider in the autumn who will give their votes in order to make their lives easier. The announced law on the one-off subsidy or remuneration does not solve the problem for the longer term, only once will it solve the problem. We will not oppose this, but this is not what we should do with the transfer law, as our parliamentary group proposes and expects the appropriate support of all those responsible in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u279	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Ms Romana Tomc, State Secretary, Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u280	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The proposed amendments to the Act on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia are not supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Transfer Coordination Act, which began in early 2007, introduced a uniform concept both in a manner and after coordination for different transfers, allowing the system to become more transparent, simple and uniform. The basis for coordination is an annual increase in living costs, which is also a practice in most other European Union countries. Social transfers are thus harmonising each January for the cost of living achieved during the January-December period of the previous year, compared to the same period of the previous year. The government is of the opinion that the way of coordination, as is now in force, is not a direct reason for the deterioration of the situation of the materially weak. The materially weak are recipients of monetary social assistance. However, for this type of social transfer, coordination remained the same as before the adoption of the Transfer Coordination Act. For all the time, coordination with the annual growth in living costs is in place. The coordination mechanism has also remained unchanged in a number of other social transfers, such as child allowances, which are one of the most extensive transfers. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that coordination of transfers with nominal growth of gross salaries of employees is unacceptable also because most of them do not have the basis for paid social security contributions, so it is not possible and it is not reasonable to link their dynamics with the growth of average gross wages. In particular, it is worth noting that Slovenia, with the proposed solution, would be special in the European area, since most European Union countries as an valorisation mechanism for a number of types of social rights take into account price increases rather than wage increases. In view of all of this, we consider that the proposed amendments to the law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households do not constitute an appropriate solution and that the Government does not support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u281	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the few that you insist on today's debate. I'm surprised there's actually no more colleagues in the hall. Your Honor! The government regularly says that it advocates systemic solutions and that it also wishes to have in the process of adopting matters that regulate the areas systematically. And today we are in the process of adopting just one supplement to the law before it was not good, but we accepted it because it was better than nothing at the time. And the government party today is proposing a systematic solution to this gap, which systematically fills this hole, if we say in this law, which we have already completed, and in fact also eliminates these injustices, which we then hope we have not deliberately overlooked. And it is essential to introduce a new mode of coordination based on Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which means that all transfers to individuals would be aligned with the growth of the average gross salary per employee, twice a year, as is essentially the case for those who pay without a government - once a year, very large amounts. I'm thinking mostly about managers. You know, there's no problem. Deserving or undeserving. You pay yourself pretty well, and what amounts in millions don't ask the government, not parliament, but take care of it. We have 200 000 citizens and citizens living on the edge of poverty in Slovenia. This is official information, already mentioned several times in the National Assembly. 26,000 pensioners are entitled to benefits from disabled persons of war and 60,000 are beneficiaries who receive an allowance for assistance and service, and 4 000 are beneficiaries who receive an allowance for a larger number of children. And the pensioners are supposed to be happy with what we gave them, you say. That's what the government says, of course. I can't agree with that. If wages in the economy are to be increased, then these social transfers should simply be referred to, or if we are talking about, these supplements covered by Article 150 of this Act, this must also be in the process of coordination, on a regular basis. If we are talking about having surpluses in the budget, it is probably not going to be difficult. It is true that in the procedure there is also a mandatory interpretation of the law, which has also been passed by a government party, and it speaks of the fact that the provision of Article 150(1) of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act must be understood in such a way that pensions are coordinated in view of the increase in the amount of the average monthly salary. Are you going to say no to that? That's not appropriate. You'll probably also reject the official explanation then. I wonder, dear colleagues, why we are always sad when it comes to the weakest. We're talking today, but we're talking about the weakest. We often do not hear that voice in the National Assembly. And it is these people who are most in need of this country's help. And the country, the government, we have also promised to work for the benefit of them, especially those who need help. If this well-meaning proposal is rejected, then I don't know why we're even here. We were indifferent to all the good proposals almost in this National Assembly, which the opposition was, but you were indifferent, you proposed, and now you finally have one line proposed by your government party. So the proponent is the right one, and I hope you'll support this too much. If we look at the financial implications of this proposal, the changes are not so great that the country that boasts that it has reduced the public financial deficit, which boasts that the real growth of the country is significantly greater and that it has a budgetary surplus, of course, then let us ask ourselves if we can't do it. If we really can't do this, let's at least give the right reasons why not, what's going to happen in public finances if we accept it. What will be the disaster if we don't confirm it? I think that many people today are waiting for us to help them systematically at least to regulate the durability of life, and they expect us to support this proposal. I believe that the government doesn't really want to go into conflict with its constituents, and this year is an election year, and I hope that this is not a pre-election well-intentioned move because I know the proposer. This has been tried once, twice, three times, and you have rejected them before, in the previous term, and we believe in the well-intention of this proposal. That's why I'm saying it's not populist. We can also rule that out. So, all we have left is common sense and meditation, and if you do this, you will not listen to what they have told you and order you, but you will also support this proposal. In the Slovenian National Party for what statistics also show and for what we also listen to constantly from you, that you want systemic arrangements, and especially because we know that this is a necessity and that many want this thing to be at least roughly regulated by law as this matter needs to be regulated by law. For I believe that these people are not at fault if the cost of living goes up if inflation increases, and it is right that the state recognises even if the situation in the economy is good, if they go relatively also to pay up, also their transfers and thus ensure the sustainability and viability of them. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we support this proposal and we will support this proposal in the opposite direction of the Government. I hope that there will be enough voices and that this will be done today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Ms Barbara Žgajner Tavš has the floor on behalf of the Lipa Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u284	Thank you very much, again today for your word. We will also support the proposed bill in the Lipa Group. The basic objective is to repeal the provisions of the law which has established a uniform method of coordination for all transfers and to introduce at the same time a new mode of coordination based on 150., 150.a and 150.b. of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. This means that all transfers to individuals and households would be coordinated instead of the increase in living costs achieved by the growth of the average gross wage per employee, twice a year, in February and November, both with the recalculations from the beginning of the year. The fact is that transfers are a form of monetary contributions, but to a large extent they are social transfers, i.e. the form of State aid or local communities to people who are socially weaker. These transfers, which, according to the government law adopted on the proposal, were then adopted by Minister Drobnič, in 2006, and which she voted in spite of opposition, were also very serious warnings from the Economic and Social Council, trade unions and the work of the government coalition, and that I would not be criminal, DeSUS was the only one who then hoped to oppose this criminal government proposal. Thus, around 44 is coordinated under this law, I think that exactly 44 different transfers from the budget, from local communities, from pension and disability or insurance, and also from the law, or from the health insurance institution of Slovenia. As already said in 2006, the government was able to vote on the law on coordination of transfers, even after an emergency procedure, the law was introduced and the law was passed. This marriage is, I said, unfair, and I believe you'll hear nothing today. The law was strictly restrictive, but it is not the only one under this government that has gone into a violation of rights, of social rights. A large number of beneficiaries of monetary social assistance were affected, some 60,000 of them at the time of the adoption of this law. Those eligible for the aid and service allowance were 26,000 and could also be listed. Last but not least, this law has affected a large number of pensioners, those who receive the lowest pensions, which is why they are entitled to a protective allowance, i.e. a so-called social adjustment. Among the goals of the government and then Minister Drobnic wrote: "The long-term sustainability of public finances must be ensured." Janez Janša said in October 2006: "This government saves where it can!" And a law on the coordination of transfers has been adopted for households and individuals, which still represents the injustice of social transfers to families. Transparency and a single record, which is referred to today by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, is, hand in hand, the "lari-fari" of respected colleagues and colleagues. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs does not have a central record of all transfers today, two years after the adoption of this law. Three times I addressed a question to the competent ministry - not once did I get an answer or, I apologize, the answer was - that the Government does not have a central record, but in the state budget it has saved financial resources at the expense of social or payment or coordination of individual transfers. The only and basic reason was to save a lot of money in the budget, and that was also among the objectives of government law at the time. Among the consequences, the government will write down, and I will quote: "The law means savings in public funds for social transfers. In 2007" - I apologize for speaking in tolars, the law was adopted even when we had Slovenian tolars - "The government is supposed to save one billion 822 million 622 thousand Slovenian tolars, in 2008 these savings doubled, and in 2009 these savings were already worth more than 6 billion Slovenian tolars." This was the only consequence and sole purpose of the government law, which is still a cause of injustice in our society today. Social transfers also influence the level of risk of poverty. Without these, relative poverty in our country would be more than 24%, but relative poverty does not say absolute poverty, it does not include numbers that mean the necessities of life or costs, including only income and income. Social transfers are undoubtedly an important aid or a corrective state. I wonder whether the Government, which is saving in this particular area, is responsible to the Government, which deserves to direct society and the situation in it with its policy. The government that saves on welfare is a bad government. We had, and Prime Minister Janez Janša very much praised this information, the highest economic growth in the European Union, I speak for last year, 2007, but the Prime Minister of the Government also forgot that we also had the highest inflation and inflation. If economic growth was felt by capital owners or by the Government with an inflow into the budget, people receiving the lowest income, pensions or various forms of transfers, social assistance were experiencing inflation. And these people were further injured. For 12 months, even in the past year 2007, their financial situation has not changed by a single cent, respected colleagues, and inflation at the annual level of more than 6%, food has risen on average, some estimates even say 30% to 40%. If the Government is proud today of the adoption of the Protection Supplement Act in January 2008, it may be a shame to be proud of the emergency measure, which means nothing more than an attempt to correct its own error. It should be said that, due to the government law, not all beneficiaries still have a protective allowance, since, despite the Government's correction in January 2008, they had to re-apply for the exercise of the right to a protective supplement, although the Government or the Ministry of Central Registry should have all the data. Not everyone has a security allowance paid today, May 2008. About 40,000 people were affected and even lost the right to a protective supplement. The government boasts with a child supplement of 8%, raising the child supplement in other words means in reality for an average three-member family, says the father, mother and one child, about 1 euro more than a child supplement. Since the Government at the same time forgets to say that the new methodology for calculating the eligibility of a child allowance, which takes into account, for example, interest, savings interest on a child who is or could be entitled to a child allowance, although these amounts to only €18, respected colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are struggling to support a law that means helping people who are in social distress or continuing with government ignorance. We can put it on the scale. When people turn to the President of the Government and in response, I will say cheap phrases about the key objectives of the Slovenian Development Strategy - this key objective is written in this government document: purely and only economic growth. Economic growth, hand to heart, does not bring a better life on its own. Policy concerns are important, the income from economic growth needs to be evenly redistributed and distributed among people, not just and only into one narrow segment, politically, if you want, compatible people or those with the largest financial resources or revenues in our country. From this same government strategy comes, I will say, a new social policy based on savings. I hope that at least the coalition Members know this document, otherwise I advise you to read, say, only the third key measure of the Government towards reducing the level of expenditure from the budget. Two systemic changes in the field of social transfers have been introduced in 2006, reducing the share of expenditure for this purpose. And the government saved or reduced on social transfers - the average real growth of social transfers was 2.4% between 2005 and 2007, which was lower than between 2001 and 2004. During the period 2008-2010, the Government assumed that this percentage would continue to decrease. But look, when I turn over a sheet of paper, respected colleagues and colleagues, on the other hand, this same government strategy says that the spending on defence is gradually increasing, the share of GDP is increasing from 1.4%, to 1.5% by 2010 and 1.1 gradually in 2007 to 1.4, and even 1.5. Social, education, health. The share of GDP is declining under this government. See the documents prepared, see the Resolution on the National Health Programme. The share of GDP is declining for education, for social services, for health care. But we are increasing on the line of defense, respected colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, poverty is increasing. Yesterday, I attended a consultation in the State Council prepared by the Ombudsman, who says that poverty at the same time means a violation of human rights because the right of a person who is in poverty is violated to dignity. Representatives of the Cabinet or the President of the Republic of Slovenia, including a number of experts from various universities, also representatives of the Ministry, were present at this meeting. Unfortunately, I have not seen any representatives of the government coalition, those Members who, without bad news, will reject the proposal for a law which has been passed - but I believe that, with sincere wishes, that the situation in this area in our country of office - has been tabled by our first-signed colleague, Žnidaršič. Unfortunately, we still do not have up-to-date data on how much poverty is in our country. The Ministry is still operating on data from 2005, which says that at the time the relative rate of poverty was 12%, but at the time the price set by the poverty threshold was 466 euros. Answer your own question about the number of poor people today - with inflation, constant irritation and the fact that today's minimum wage is €399 and that thousands of people today depend on minimum wages. And that more than 100,000 pensioners today do not receive a pension that would reach the above-mentioned threshold. 466 in 2005. The fact is that poverty is the result of structural changes in society, which is the result of policy measures. Under this government and its strategy for the development of Slovenia, the differences between the rich and the poor have deepened, including because of the new tax policy of Minister Bajuk. Taxation has fallen for the rich, and the poor will only be more poor, only more materially and socially deprived, due to a very sophisticated system of state-accounting. The state under the government is no longer a good mother, that's what I hope to say, but it's becoming a bad stepmother. Social security is becoming a social hazard. 200 Euros of financial assistance, cash social assistance per month means, respected colleagues and colleagues, only 7 Euros per day. Tell me, what can a citizen today who receives 7 euros on the State Aid Day do with 7 euros? Just two sandwiches across the street from the National Assembly. That's the reality. Janša, I will say, Bajuk's privatisation, denationalisation for politically compatible individuals and entities on the other hand mean poverty for more than 100,000 people in our country. The government's concrete actions, hand to heart, we have not seen in this mandate - to reduce poverty, to reduce the social pressures of people. The only thing the government does is to put out the fire and possibly pick up political points just before the plantation, but this is a bad trip. This is a poor journey in the absence of a serious strategy or in the face of government policy, I will say, which is concerned only and only with capital, economic growth, but does not realize and does not want to be aware of the social consequences of this. This government law, we have heard, does not support. The financial implications of the adoption of the law would be the highest, as calculated by the Desus Group, 50 million euros. It is not possible to ignore the fact that the Government has simultaneously prepared a law to pay compensation from World War II, which would amount to EUR 600 million of budget money. But when we talk about 50 million to deal with people's social distress, it's too much to break some systematic functioning of this government. In the past, the government has committed a number of sins in this mandate. I hope and wish for the benefit of the social state, as long as it remains, that today the government will not write another sin in capital letters. There is no doubt that we will support the proposal of the Lip Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat will present the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u286	Thank you for your word. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The legislative proposal of the DeSUS Group can only be discussed in the context of the adopted Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia, adopted in 2006. From this point of view, this novel, which is supported by the Social Democrats, is what the Social Democrats are trying to achieve in the second reading of the law in the National Assembly, only that we have written down the text that should be amended: "it is coordinated in the manner and within the time limits set out for the coordination of pensions under the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance." However, colleagues from DeSUS took the lead in stating for coordination that "they are valorising in accordance with provisions 150., 150.a and 150.b of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act." At that time, the amendment's proposal received 26 votes in favour and 44 votes in favour rejected the amendment. In the Social Democrats' Group, we are performing, then Minister Drobnič, who considered that the aim of the law was not to reduce social transfers, but to ensure a uniform way of coordinating all types of aid and benefits with the growth of living costs, which means that it would maintain an irreversible standard of living, we refused because we did not believe that the basic objective of the law was to legalise solutions that would allow for the coordination of transfers paid from state and municipal budgets and both stores to a more uniform, transparent, simple and logical way and that individuals would not be harmed or damaged. At the same time, there was a speech about how much the country would save by this way of coordination - an illogical claim, I would say. And then, on behalf of the parliamentary group, our leader gave three reasons why we opposed the law. First, because the law was not in line with the social partners; secondly, because the content was not in line with the title of the law; and thirdly, because the law did not have an explanation that would allow its actual judgment. Therefore, the idea that we did not support the law was more than enough, so now it seems to us that the possibility of correcting what was wrong at the end of 2006 and what this government has finally acknowledged by some of the measures taken to harmonise social transfers, since we have thus individually regulated some of the 38 social transfers enshrined in this law. In particular, I would like to point out at that time that these are not all real social transfers, because some are also such as to concern acquired rights from work. Therefore, it was a mix of different social transfers, which were quite flawed, also inadequately coordinated because the criterion for or the deadline for finding a harmonised criterion was not January-January or December-December, but also because it went from December to January, it meant a reduction for those who could exercise the rights of this law. We therefore consider this to be an opportunity to repair the damage. If, in fact, the Government considers that the way of coordination with pensions is inadequate, why not then the coalition table an amendment and propose coordination with the growth of living needs - only twice a year - it can still do so. So this is our proposal, we support the bill and expect everyone who has at least a little more social sense to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u287	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Aleš Gulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u288	Dear President! Dear fellows and fellows! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration and we support it. This is due, of course, to the fact that the law has frozen a number of rights, family benefits, social support, unemployment benefits, meetings, scholarships of all kinds and compensations to those infected with AIDS; in short, the rights to be paid from state and municipal budgets and from the funds of two institutions, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. These are only seven: the annual allowance, the allowance and the service, the invalidity allowance and some allowances, and then the allowance for pensions of pensioners received by people from other countries of the former republics of the SFRJ, and the allowances and protective allowances. The grounds for rights under five different laws are also frozen, namely, rights under the Health and Insurance Act, wages due to sickness, occupational diseases, injuries at work; and all these rights remain nominally the same all year 2007 as before, at a time when we had high economic growth and budgetary surplus, but of course also severe inflation, inflation, which in some ways affected the middle layer and kind or even pushed entire groups of people over the poverty threshold. The Group of Members then tabled a proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the harmonisation of transfers into the legislative procedure in October 2007, but of course this was not adopted. I can't say there were no attempts at solutions. In January, the government tried to repair the damage caused by all these anomalies and errors in part by two laws, the law on the protection allowance and the law on parental allowance and family benefits, but this did not contribute systematically to halting the lowering of the standard of people with the lowest income, nor to further disbursing of the Slovenian population. Government laws have thus resolved the coordination issue only in some transfers, yet more than 40 transfers continue to be aligned only once a year with the Life Needs Growth Index. In the Liberal Democracy, because of all that I have listed, we support the bill and we hope that, at least for force, these matters will be mitigated. We don't see the solution as permanent. The fight against poverty does not fight social transfers, but fights other issues. There are also various other attempts of solidarity in fact only for a moment to alleviate these pains, but in reality they do not solve the problem. Of course, we take, say, two data from today’s newspapers that also talk about it. Last year the country's annual allowance'saved' in quotations, €6 million, and one pensioner's pension amounted to €12 more per month at € 139 per year. It is said that something continues to spill, one solution then causes other anomalies, and the repair of one injustice causes new injustices. So we need to ask ourselves how else to mitigate the consequences of poverty. The easiest, of course, is that there is no poverty. And this is where this country is supposed to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u289	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! In the New Slovenia Group, we have a similar position on this occasion, as proposed by the DeSUS Group, as in previous proposals. However, if memory does not deceive me, the genetic makeup of this law is actually within the pre-election period of 2004. The outcome of social policy is certainly justice. This means that the same people in the same situations are treated equally. And this was a fundamental starting point for the adoption of a law on the coordination of social transfers, which today is trying to be suspended by the amendment of the law or by a proposal, as presented by the proposer. Social transfers, which are around 40, have been coordinated differently before the law comes into effect, with citizens placed in very different situations. At that time, we were also asked what about equality of citizens before the law? Why would incomes that are social adjustment be coordinated differently? Only in the field of disability are there great differences, which is certainly not fair. As the high income from these transfers is seen by the citizens who are employed and who receive 400 euros a month's salary, it is unlikely that there is a need for a specific explanation. The opposition's parliamentary groups were critical when the new law was adopted, in particular, to reducing social security and reducing social transfers. However, if we look only this year, transfers in the area of family benefits, more specifically children's allowances, have increased significantly. With the adoption of the so-called DeSUS Act, it would be the parental benefits that would be drastically reduced, the link between the coordination of transfers, the growth of pensions that are aligned with the growth of wages, that would certainly put recipients of social transfers in a worse position. We must not forget the high financial consequences. The proposal to harmonise wage transfers would probably also entail an increase in the contribution rates, which would carry the social burden on the active population. At the beginning of this year, we settled problems in the low-income population with the amendment of the Protection Supplement Act, the Family Benefits Act and the Income Act. With this, we have softened, at least in part, those negative effects caused by inflation. If inflation were not available, then these laws would not be necessary either. The government responded to this problem quickly and effectively. In view of this, recent laws have ensured an improvement in the social situation of those with the lowest income to come into a more favourable position than they would have under the old law, i.e. before the law we are discussing today is in force. And given that this law, which we are considering today, would make the situation of families significantly worse due to the reduction of maternity benefits and parental benefits, the New Slovenia Group will oppose the adoption of this law. However, let me point out that the Members of the New Slovenia Group support the efforts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in seeking solutions to alleviate the problems and problems of pensioners, of course those who have the lowest pensions, with unique financial assistance. We were particularly sensitive to pensioners, and we also talked about this during the 2004 pre-election period, when we calculated that the previous pension coalition had damaged the pensioner in 4 years for two 'pension' and a half. This is how we approached the amendment of the law, and this was also a coalition commitment, and we are pleased to have eliminated these anomalies in February 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u291	The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u292	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good bye to all of you! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have already warned and challenged the simplified approach taken by the Ministry of Finance or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which put a proposal for this law into the procedure, in the process of drafting a law now in force on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. For according to our knowledge of the purpose and content or nature of the individual transfer, this alone should not be so recklessly simplified in the system of coordination. Each individual transfer was made on the basis of the law on the resolution of a particular social issue and the situation in the first place as the exercise of the basic mission of the State in order to take special care of the social sustainability and fairness of its citizens. On this basis, on the basis of the substantive purposes and conceptual design of the individual law which has set a certain transfer as a right and, on the other hand, as an obligation of the State, it has also established a way of coordinating it, compatible with the nature and purpose of the law itself. Despite the fact that we have managed to change little in the Slovenian People's Party's Group with our warnings, soon after the law came into force, it was clear that we had a strong right with our wishes, because it was clear that high inflation also made it clear that the situation proposed by this law would need to be changed by specific legal approaches. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we still believe that the way of coordinating each transfer according to the specificity of the purpose of the law which it established until the adoption of a uniform system of coordination of all transfers was equally fairer and, in the first place, systemically real. The proposal for a law amending the Transfer Coordination Act that we are considering today, of course, for some additional transfers, justifiably eliminates the extremes created by the existing law by its way of coordination. However, a completely similar approach creates other types of extremes, only with the new parameters of coordination of all transfers in the same way, irrespective of the systemic basis in the law that each transfer establishes, it would certainly be possible, given that it represents any transfer, part of the total income set by the beneficiary for his or her life and only enough for his or her survival, to harmonise all trahspheres based on 150., 150.a and 150.b. of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, as proposed, is certainly more socially sustainable and just than it is now. It is clear, however, that such a new uniform mode of coordination would require a few more resources from the state budget. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that neither the existing nor the newly proposed system of coordination is good. It would be far better to make changes to the situation before the adoption of the current law on the basis of a good examination of this situation. The practice has shown that the existing law is not good, that it has had a negative impact on the most income-sensitive groups of citizens and citizens, which we are trying to mitigate with some intervention laws, but this is not the right approach. But in the given situation, it is necessary. And everything here is unnecessary to speak for this speaker, how this law is fair and how this law has had a positive impact on public finances. That is only true: I, without the hope of winning, argued the then minister and, more crediblely, the then State Secretary in the Ministry of Labour, who was a long-standing professional worker in the field of labour law, in order to coordinate the basis for the assessment of supplementary pension and disability benefits on this basis, as brought by a single system, practically raising fear for the smallest recipients of pensions. And that's what happened. And it is all too much today to talk about how, with the measures now taken by our government, this people have been burdened by inflation. That's not true! We took what belonged to them under the basic mission of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, and all the government was obliged to do so, to correct it, because no one else in the country is as professional as the government, to pursue the postulate of the state, that it has a special sense of social justice and the sustainability of citizens. Similarly, the uniform application of the new parameters for the coordination of all transfers, just as now, would suggest that there is nothing else, and that, after all, there are also non-systemic solutions according to the nature and purpose of the individual law establishing the transfer. Those who have accompanied a single law that has been created in individual articles of the transfer over the long years of the work of the Member States will be able to agree with me. It does not matter and far from the fact that the recipients of transfers are in the same position and that these transfers must be equal in view of equality. That's not true! The recipients of certain transfers are in a completely different position, which is not a social category at all. Of all this, the decision before a Member is difficult, even those who have little of their own decision-making creations in favour of citizens and citizens who, after all, are being stimulated by the State for their equal and equal inclusion in this society. It's a tough decision. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will therefore decide on the appropriateness of this law on the basis of the individual Member's own opinion. In any case, I will support the law because there are less negative effects in it than in the existing law, although it is not a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Member Vila Rezman will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After a few hours of pouring salt on my wounds today, it was good to listen to presentations of the views of the groups. And I must say that I am very happy, not the only one, probably everyone in the Dessus Group, that we have, as it were, from all the opposition parties, as in previous debates, support in these ambitions to correct our weaknesses. We are also pleased that the representative of the Slovenian Democrats' Group would rather give up the discussion or the presentation of views than to be embarrassed. We are also pleased at the critical position of the Slovenian People's Party, and we cannot possibly understand the nonsense that the NSI representative has been wasting on this speaker. We who have prepared this law, in the DeSUS Group we have prepared it in the group, will be defending this law to the end, realizing that we have not "consolidated" all truths and all the best solutions and offering, as in the previous law which has been rejected, that those who have some creative power, what creative powers, take seriously reading this law, prepare proposals for changes and if there are smart changes that we consider to be worthy of supporting them, we will also support them. It is true, however, that when it comes to the law on coordination of transfers, since 2006 we have taken a deep breath in the DeSUS Group, because we need to have a little more oxygen inside us when you have to listen to all the stupidities, shames, accusations, attempts to outflank those who think favorably of those who are social beneficiaries, and we must also take a breath when we have to listen to the ultimatums. And there are a few, so you'll know the ultimatums that are at the expense of the social beneficiaries. Genesis was already represented by my fellow Members today. Let me just say for a moment that we were in the parliamentary group who opposed the law that was passed in 2006. Let me say that the implementation of that law was in fact a freezer, so how to freeze not only the rights of beneficiaries, some would also cool down the beneficiaries. Perhaps such hypothermia would spend a little less and it would be less. We cannot agree with these "substantiations" and, of course, not with the views of the Government, which appeared to be unanimous, and with the views of the Ministry, which even today, half a year after our first law was rejected, read the same arguments against us as talking about the same law. It's as if they didn't read and see the difference between the law we filed last year, which they broke and which they later had to replace with their paradisaic measures, which aren't systemic, but just palliative, are mitigating the mistakes they've caused. There were a lot of protests. First of all, on the part of the retired, and of course all others, and we in the parliamentary group have tried to hear and correct this and to offer it to the other coalition partners, which we have done, and there has not been a negative response. It's like we're not here - and we're not here anyway when they don't need us to vote. January's proposals meant otherwise to make some of what we proposed, of course, with another authorisation. Someone else wanted to sign this and believe us that this will happen now that, if so, our new bill is rejected and they will try to replace it with something else, which I will explain later. And of course, the authorization will be another; others will sign under this because they will want some credit from this, and because it means a prize that will take place in August after one of the options that the Government now proposes - that is, a reward to the pensioner if he elects the current government. In DeSUS, when the time is right, we will explain what a unique election allowance will take place in August. We are convinced that not only is it worth considering this proposal of ours. We are convinced that all those who have supported us so far have the right, and it is therefore right to choose today to gather enough support so that in the next readings with amendments, with the improvements that the Government can also propose, we can correct what is not appropriate for anyone. However, we do not understand how the NSI representative should talk about all possible weaknesses, is talking about how this law is harmful to the social beneficiaries, and their minister, the Minister of Finance, has calculated that if our law were adopted, these beneficiaries would receive EUR 25 million. How can social beneficiaries be harmed by 25 million euros to the poor, this is not understandable for a rational person. The Minister, who comes from the same kinds, has rejected our law, with repeated last year's words, so that she does not support it, "because of the existing solutions," and I now quote: "the law on harmonisation of transfers is more appropriate than proposed." Well, for this government, it's more appropriate for them to get less poor. Understand if you can understand that! The less we give them, the better it is for them! And this is said by the Ministry, which should care for work, family and social affairs, and for the disabled. And let this party explain today why it is against getting these higher social transfers from people with disabilities, those who are sick, those who are recipients of scholarships, those who are unemployed. How good it is for them to get as little as possible. I believe that the government's representatives present today will not have the right arguments, the right answers, but will be an opportunity to show up and stand up at the debate on the working body when it comes to it. The same government, the same ministry recognises: the 2006 law caused mistakes, was a mistake. He was voted only with three quarters of the coalition, everything else was against. This law, this ministry and the government recognises, has caused great social distress, caused injustices and irregularities. They have written this down on their own in support of why they reject our proposal. And that's why they came up with mitigating, palliative measures. We do not agree with these palliative measures alone; we agree to add something else to the Government's social transfers for the poor, for the poor, for the social beneficiaries at the same time. But we don't agree that the government and the ministry are blurry now. Now it's about gaining the electoral favor of pensioners only. Why'd they cut it out? Why did they change the target audience? Why don't they talk about all the ones we talk about in this marriage? Why did they focus only on those voters whom they thought would easily win them over in the month of August, when they would be paid up to 50, 100 or 80 euros? We don't understand this in the Dessus Group. And let me conclude that we hope that, in the event of the fact that we have heard it, that is to say, with the great support of most of the groups of Members, there is still the possibility that this law will be dealt with in future, that it is finally adopted and that NSI will also find that it is no less.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u295	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u296	Thank you so much for saying that. We'll start with the savings that were stated in the marriage. It is clear that at a time when unemployment is falling, as employment increases, it is impossible to expect that the scope of social assistance will increase. At that time, employment has increased significantly, meaning that there are significantly fewer recipients of such social assistance; and this is a key reason. The second reason is to prevent double payments, triple payments, what happened in our country. In this regard, you have a report from the centres for social work saying that such an approach has been correct, that many of those who twice come with good cars and demand social assistance. Is it justified that one who goes to work every day, a worker, gets 400 or 500 euros in wages and then pays to the state treasury to maintain such anomalies? You know, these are savings! Otherwise, twenty-five million savings can be compared to the effects of the laws and with the law itself on pension and disability insurance, which ensured a better payment of pensions. Just valorisation of pensions amounts to five times the amount of these savings. for children's allowances or increases in children's allowances and others for other purposes. In short, it's demagogy, of course, that's nice. A fundamental starting point is equality in social transfers, it must be, you know! Is it okay, then, that for revolutionary achievements - the majority, which are coordinated according to wages, is correct; and social assistance according to the cost of living. At that time, I also pointed out the enormous differences in these benefits, and I am not taking up these terrible differences. Excuse me, these benefits together total between three and four thousand euros; these are also individuals who are being sought by this law to reintroduce such a way of valorisation. Okay, if society is so rich, then let's agree that we'll raise it for all of these, but again, by two percentage points above the cost of living. If, of course, workers on the other hand and also trade unions representing workers agree to raise social assistance in this way. This is social dialogue and this is also intergenerational co-existence and intergenerational bargaining. Thus it is simply not possible to interpret laws as some do. I believe in benevolentness for some benefits, but this proposal goes poorly for some others. I certainly will not support changes in the law that make family benefits worse, one part of the family benefits, so that I will not misinterpret everything. [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]] for same-sex partners - well, when you discuss, you will have the opportunity to talk about same-sex and different-sex partnerships. [[..]] But I don't think these contributions are going that way. Well, those were the reasons. And one more thing. The text of the law, which was tabled, is similar with some corrections made by the Government, the former government in 2004, and considered this to be a good starting point with the principle of justice and equality, but the time ran out because it was an electoral year, a summer in which such a law might also raise a critical word, not to go with such a law, but to whatever extent. If the principles are right, if the principles are right, then there is no reason to take into account whether it is a pre-election year or whether it is an eligible year or anything else. Those who act wisely, in principle, will not rightly wonder what the timing of such laws is. And these are also the reasons why I will not support this novelty of marriage. Of course, I am still susceptible or ready to do so as a member of the National Assembly, that some of the effects of inflation also need to change with certain adaptations to the law. However, there is probably something else that needs to be changed in this society, the sources of inflation, not only European sources, but all that is often advocated in the National Assembly: increased consumption, then various corporations, which in ceto raise prices and undermine the social situation. Raising various Czech associations, cooperatives and similar to the mandatory payment of contributions and so on, which at the same time place much higher prices. We also passed the Law on Lawyers. Why take into account their suggestions when, however, it is for the benefit of a well - paying layer? Why should we not primarily listen to the citizens, the users of these services? And that is why we must descend into these sources that cause social distress; and social distress - I will not deny that it is not, you have honestly said that it is, but we must seize the right levers or the right reasons for such hotspots. Monopolies, whatever they are, on whatever basis - are not good and cause inflation and lower social standards. This is contrary to these basic principles of equality, the true market, in which the key user is the main user and which must be taken into account - that is, the citizen, the citizen, the buyer, this is the one who will tell what is good.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u297	Thank you. Mr. Janc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, this proposed law, which the Government has rejected, does not support, in short, with some arguments that state that what Parliament adopted in 2006, how these transfers are coordinated, with the exception of pensions, has probably been promoted here, in my opinion and modest knowledge, including inflation, and has probably done so here too. This gap, which may be seen by the proposer, is clearly that this thing is incompatible with what the wages are aligned with, and it would normally be better to accommodate these transfers. I agree with those predecessors who have said that social distress is certainly great among Slovenians" so much and so much poor, so much and so much dependent on this social assistance, such or other transfers and, normally, some are already running a little bit into the throat. Let's be honest and honest, we have nothing to hide here, and I feel it in the environment where I am, and I know it's always more. However, the Government's arguments are understandable in their own way - if we are honest and, on the other hand, to be honest, I understand these beneficiaries that this mismatch and now this even decline in nominal value certainly means a lot. Each euro means an enormous amount to all of this. Unfortunately, too, Slovenian wages are modest. These are not European wages, even in certain environments, if I take away central Slovenia - Ljubljana, the wages are low - 400, 500 euros is normal pay for hard work, work. And these salaries are uncomparable. And this also results in these certain transfers that are. I don't think it's a simple decision. I am convinced that every Member has such a social sense that he understands this segment of the population, that he understands those pensioners with low incomes, that he understands those such and other beneficiaries of these transfers that are legally theirs. And all of this probably sits and has its weight in this proposal, and no matter what time we talk: whether it is pre-election or the first year after the elections - it doesn't matter at all. We know there was a lot of discussion at the time when we adopted that law, but we felt that everything could be done on the same denominator - positive, all transfers to the same denominator. And that's what former Minister Petty Officer advocated, and I think that was positive for most Members at the time. At that time, however, no one calculated how inflation would be done, how it would be done with these and those transfers, how it would happen, and now there was a picture, where things were not going as well as we were in good faith at the time, that is, despite some opposition objections, which is also logical and normal, in itself reasonable. I think that the important area that we are discussing today, which touches so many citizens, would be a good idea to find the consensus that we had at the previous point in the Law on Mental Health. Is it possible to find a compromise in the National Assembly at that time? However, the compromise is between the existing law in force and the proposed way to find these beneficiaries a slightly better material position. I'm really skeptical here. It's not that black and white. It is not as simple a picture as it sounds, not in the part you proposed at the head of Mr Žnidaršič, and in that which is now in force. If that's possible. Therefore, at first reading, I will support this issue without any particular difficulties, provided that perhaps in the second reading we find a possible solution. I don't have any formula in my pocket. If I had it, I'd tell you right now. But in good faith, let us please these beneficiaries who are on the verge of many of them, just as we agreed in this National Assembly in the course of the student diet elsewhere. Let us also be a little more social in these people. Realising that financial resources are affected by certain consequences, that no money is foreseen in the budget. I'm aware of all this, but if it's good will, there's always a solution. And one less Patria. If we're there one last time, and there's one less here, it'll be here. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] It's a possibility. [[...]] But I do know that there is no simple and simple solution and that the picture is not black and white. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u299	Thank you. Mr. Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u300	Thank you for your word. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Government. First of all, I must say that, of course, I myself will support such a bill, and secondly, what I would add, I do not agree with the way in which laws were interpreted, as was the case a little earlier - one, two discussants back, it is said that at the expense of those 10% who abuse or even misuse existing legislation, that, of course, the amendment of the law is being adapted and the remaining 90% are being affected, which take account of this legislation. That is why I do not agree with the adoption of laws in this State Council in such a way and with such interpretation. While I believe that it is right and rational to seek to coordinate the various social transfers, there are some common solutions to the singlest possible model of coordination that will, in particular, be more fair and on the other hand transparent. That there will be no such abuse as some of you are talking about. However, I do not agree with the current approach and practice of implementing this objective and the principle of doing so irrespective of the consequences. Even if, of course, the proposal for a law is not well thought out or thoughtful. One of the consequences of this inconceivable is, of course, the 2006 law adopted by most in the National Assembly, to which some in the opposition were reminded at that time that the social situation of certain recipients of social benefits would deteriorate significantly. At that time, the government claimed, and until last autumn, even in October, it claimed that this would not happen. Today, on 22 May 2008, we are two years and some years after that and more than clearly and demonstrated that these were, in a negative sense, a black forecast by the opposition today. And something else, unfortunately, in this time of time, we have also pointed out this inflationary spiral that it will also be about high inflation, and that two years of social transfers under such conditions and conditions have not been coordinated, indeed, the social situation has deteriorated considerably, whether you have recognised it or not, in fact in everyday life. The humanitarian package intervention of the Government by which the Government has tried to resolve the emerging situation and social dissatisfaction is not enough, and this is why it is also supporting this law at this time. With these interventions, in January of this year, the Government intervened in some way in the existing mode of coordination, but only for that small limited number. Most of the coordination remained on the old principle of the law we adopted in 2006. And now I must say what I most agree with is that I have been convinced by the proposer of this bill that it is necessary to do something at this time. This is the explanation which is on page 8 and when price increases are compared in Slovenia and in the euro area in which we are, in some way, supposed to be equal partners. Here is the obvious difference of one and a half index points in this inflation and this has an 'innocent' effect on the people receiving this social assistance. And the second information, which is also stated that basic inflation has become obviously systemic and is also embedded in all the documents that we also accept in the National Assembly, so that this inflation that took us in last half of last year or another part of the year was only random, but that it is clearly becoming systemic and we will feel the consequences of this inflation within the euro area not only this year, but also for a few more years. However, the highest expenditure of recipients of these social transfers is, of course, in the field of so-called food products, the highest prices in last year. So, once again, I will support this bill. As I said in January, I do not think that the injustice we committed back in 2000 can be corrected, but I suggest that we do not bring the same injustice to our fellow citizens this year or next year. I therefore propose once again to the coalition Members that they support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u301	Thank you. Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't see Mrs. Secretary arrive before I performed. Before commenting on our proposal for a law, I must first express the surprise that the representative of Nova Slovenije is saying that the revised reconciliation of pensions adopted in 2000 took two and a half pensions. This would have happened if the cumulative backlog of pensions in five years had entered into force on the first day of the law, but it did not. In the end, there were pensions for around seven, and some change, percentages for salary increases. Of course, to the death of all pensioners. We tried to correct this mistake, agreed on it in a coalition agreement, and then sabotaged the changes in the law, in fact, disabledly changed the matter, and the pensions do not align with the salaries and are still lagging behind. That's the truth. Indeed, there is something else that the pensioners have never seen the two and half pensions that Nova Slovenije promised to its voters in the pre-election period of 2004. So much for history. As far as this law is concerned, I must say that one of the fundamental problems and cruel consequences was that it envisaged coordination once a year. And that meant last year at the beginning of February that last year these people didn't get anything. Not a cent! And, of course, in the attack that this law is not as it should be, that it has the wrong starting points, the government does not recognize that everyone, even as bad as their own marriage, is able to correct and amend with more than ten amendments, at the same time, rather with individual interventions. And it is obvious to this law that it is inappropriate to say that it is different from the practice in Europe where such benefits are to be coordinated with price increases. Yeah, then why didn't she suggest it? Last year prices rose, say, food by 25% and more, but there was no action! With her thoughts on what needs to be done, she came a year after the consequences of a poorly prepared marriage took place in 2006. Worse! When it came to what the savings would be, and to make it easier to get through, the government then provided false information on the financial consequences in terms of savings. She stated a billion and a half for the first year - here I am complementing the remarks of Mrs Barbara Žgajner Tavš: there was not a billion in the first year, but according to the Ministry, when our law, which we filed in December of the month or which was the first in a row in December, was then "scanslan", 5 billion in the first year was last year and announced for this year over 6 billion savings if I speak in Slovenian Tolars. It means far more than what was said. On the other hand, by rejecting our proposal, the law offers calculations of the financial consequences in a negative sense that are far from growing in reality and truth. If I mention only one incorrect data in these financial consequences, the increase in pensions is in line with our coordination. Pensions are not in our law, they are already saved by coordination in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, but here they appear to be financial success. Furthermore, the Secretary of State stated that this would have significant financial implications only in the area of family benefits, such as child allowances and so on. Why does the Government not come with an amendment to exclude you from this mode of coordination? Also by arguing that this was corrected by the Children's Allowances Act or the Family Benefits Act, which was adopted as an intervention law for the ill effects of the previously adopted law. Although these benefits were once coordinated by another method and were supposed to damage our marriage, then the amendment could solve the matter and there was no attempt to do so. I must say that at the time of trying to solve the existing law because of individual cases of infringements in the sense of unjustifiable obtaining social transfers, it has been extremely unfair for the few individuals who have exercised their right to do so, and they have not been justified by the authorities of all recipients of transfers. Or, for those who have very high incomes, it does not come with the restriction to say that from here on out, it should be aligned with the growth of living costs and to there with wages. We could agree on that. We could reduce the financial consequences. We have calculated, there are less than 30 million euros of consequences - this cannot be done because the Democratic Party of Pensioners has proposed this to help the poor. However, the government will propose it for the pensioners, but not for all the poor in this country, for the pensioners, because it needs their votes in the autumn, the Dragan supplement, thereby destroying all pension ratios up to EUR 500, which are also different because it has one full-time job and the other has only 15 years of working time, while at the same time staying out of those who have to survive with 200 euros of social support. These are not covered by the proposed law, which clearly shows the purpose of the law. And also this, the promotions were last year, and the Dragan supplement will be generously and gloriously offered just before the elections, but la smoothie, or as it is called, Croatian syndrome, which, of course, helped to get out of the pensioner's parliament. These are the real reasons that must be stated in this law. We do not say that it is ideal, it can be made financially acceptable by small interventions and at a longer time of better, because the dragan supplement comes and passes and then again is the same song - injustices that take place under this law, especially pensioners and health insurance and labour legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u303	Thank you. Mrs. Žginer Tavš has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Let this be thought to the representatives of New Slovenia as well as to the heroes of Janšev, who today apparently have a speech ban on this topic. Justice is solidarity, and we must build on it as a social society. It is not the fault of the disabled themselves that they are disabled and are unable to perform actively and equally in the labour market, for this is an unfair system which has burdened the rich and the medium-sized, and also those with the lowest remuneration, with the minimum wage which, due to the regression, falls into the taxation system. And it is not fair when someone from New Slovenia spoke about the system of justice that the worker receives only a minimum wage of €399, that the worker in Paloma gets a minimum wage, a member of the administration who just accidentally fell from the NSI and gets more than ten thousand and 10,000 and some of the wages. That's unfair! And if you want respectable colleagues and colleagues, I believe that I will say enough with this, the President of the Government responds to people who turn to him for help because of social distress. I quote: "We ask you politely to inform the competent centre for social work about your distress, and you can also seek assistance from NGOs." It is, respected colleagues and colleagues, a government strategy to address social pressures in our country, it is a shame for the social state.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u305	Thank you. Mr. Brenčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u306	Thank you very much. First of all, I would say that I find it uncomfortable to listen to people who have performed positions of responsibility, such as the Minister, perform here before this assembly with such absurd things. This law and the law that we are amending has nothing to do with the accumulation of transfers; it has nothing to do with the lawyer, as it has nothing in common with the working representative if he sets fire to the factory, so that the working representative will still give him the consent that the employer will not forgive him. I am saddened by such absurd thoughts and speech from people who have been in such responsible places. But something is a fact. The fact that all pension recipients who are entitled to additional pension and disability benefits have not been reconciled has not increased their pension, has not increased for a practical year and a half, has nothing in common with inflation, nothing but so irresponsiblely set a parameter after coordinating the basis for the assessment of these rights. That's why I'm saying, I don't know what the government is going to do - there's no time! We have a July session where only third readings can be held, every blue government, even if it is an election year, and even if this law on the coordination of social transfers has been taken as a achievement in the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy programme, as something worthwhile, every blue - government - and I also recommend it not to listen to the former minister, but to come up with appropriate amendments - what is a real weakness in the previous system is now embedded in this law. And we'll virtually be like a government coalition and as a government we'll be burdened with another one-time, completely electoral act to deal with this law if it comes forward. I would certainly recommend to the Government that it act wisely, prepare the most meaningful amendments as a responsible government, know what are the capabilities of the country, what are the rules of the game, which transfer is intended for the one and should come with amendments. And I am sure that this law can be resolved in the best way possible, regardless of the election year. And I recommend that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u307	Thank you. Mr. Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u308	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Mr Brenčič, now what this government thinks, has shown today very vividly when we see that from the largest government party at this time there is only one Member, and this one has come to the hall two minutes ago by thinking a lot about the social pressures of people, about problems, and also thinking about solving them in such a way or other. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Yes, Mr. Puksic. [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]] Mr. President. So much more about government Members and those who think if all Mrs Žnidaršiči, Brenčiči and Mrs Rezmani were to be, there would probably be something different in this country - this is just my personal thought. For the fourth time, I've been listening to the same story, and I don't even know what to add, because it seems to me that we're talking empty, but I think it's important that I add some facts, and I'm also going to add some historical facts. Before the elections, the current government, the current MPs, had a lot of mouth-to-mouth fighting for the little man, how, what they would do for this little man, for the problems in Slovenia and what was wrong with the 12 years of that previous government. And with those big words about problem-solving, this government came into power. But since we know that power is also sweet, today is the result of their rule. When she came to power, she wrote in a coalition contract, and they wrote that the social level of people would not decrease. However, after four years of government, without any reduction, the social level of people and the problems of people in Slovenia are at the lowest level. Of course, there are other causes, but it is the government that can influence such or other ways so that these social problems do not escalate. The government, when it began to rule, however, showed its true face, the real face for a small man, and this man disappears, disappeared for three years from their mouths, but of course this little man now slowly returns to the front and does not need to be repeated because all colleagues told me that the elections were coming. They started with reforms, and reforms didn't work because people, I'll say, stood up. But then they started to adopt laws and also one of the laws they passed in 2006 was the Act on the Coordination of Social Transfers, to which we Social Democrats had already warned at the time that this law was not good, that it was not consistent with the social partners, that the problems of inflation would show up in a few years' time - we were demogogues, then we were people who weren't thinking and so on. Today all these concerns that we had at the time are reflected in the true light and our warnings, I think they were in place at the time. When we, when DeSUS proposed to make this law, this was in January, we were once again faced with the same fact, even then we were demagogues and people who didn't know things that we were not doing well in the direction of people, so we were also, I'll say, in some way by voting and we failed. Back then, one of the key moments is that they said they were the previous system, I'll say, they could have been abused by some individuals. I also agree with this, but I do not think that the institutions which should punish or exclude these individuals from these social transfers have cooperated. At that time, after seeing that it was no longer going, the government adopted a few laws or a protective allowance, a parental allowance, then adopted some other kind of proposals, which will all have financial effects in 2009, not one of them having financial effects this year, but will have them in the following year. But the question is whether this government will still have, I will say, influences or exercise in my own hands. This is how I will support this law, and I hope that they will also now be in the People's Party and in DeSUS and elsewhere, yet the Members have decided that this law is the only right and only right for Slovenia and Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u309	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u310	Thank you very much. A good year and a half since we passed the Act on Social Transfers to Individuals and Households is why, at least as far as Social Democrats and myself personally are concerned, the debate we had at the time is still alive enough. I recall the Government claiming that it is preparing and adopting this law in order to unify and harmonise the system of coordination of all, over 40 social transfers that it has written into law. I also recall that we have told the Government that if it really wants to do so, it is not necessary to introduce just one system; and another that it can introduce a system that will not drastically reduce the possibility of coordination to the detriment of all recipients of social transfers. What we have been proclaimed by the Government, even unfortunately by some coalition Members, is not necessary now, but it has been confirmed that not only the explanation but also the actual objective has had such an effect, but not only the coordination proposed by the Government. Secondly, we have pointed out that the proposed proposal will necessarily lead to greater or smaller inflation, in December of the previous year, not to benefit the beneficiaries of these rights, because it will simply not be possible because the accounts will not be carried out until January, December of the previous year, and we have demonstrated that the suspension of this coordination for a year, as set out in the transitional provisions, will necessarily mean that the possibilities for cross-border coordination will be reduced and thus also reduce the real income that citizens and citizens are normally at risk of at the expense of social transfers. And something else, we have said that, so far, where wage coordination has been, we have taken into account the wage movement, which was not exclusively linked to prices or cost of living, but fortunately also to the increased productivity of work, which has always brought about a nominal increase in wages a little more than just coordination at the cost of living, which will again go against the beneficiaries of social benefits. All of this was that I will not recall the name, and the official representatives of the government have also been mocked and judged as false. I am glad that those representatives of the government are no longer there and that they cannot defend their position. But I am sad that, unfortunately, their positions are much alike and do not indicate that the government would have realized that it was wrong at the time. We Social Democrats have already proposed a solution, which is proposed today by colleagues from DeSUS. We have said, however, that if all transfers are necessary to be coordinated according to the same methodology, and since coordination under the law on pension and disability insurance was then possible, let us coordinate this in this way. Our amendment was also supported by several members of the opposition, colleagues from DeSUS - yes, but it received a strong lack of vote to be enforced. These are the facts that we remember today, and that is why we fully support today the proposal made by our colleagues from DeSUS, and we want the National Assembly to gather so much social sense and understanding and so much objectivity to support this proposal. At that point, let me say two. If - and I won't say anything else than repeat what many have already said - if the solution isn't ideal, it can be complemented. We adopt laws from the Government that have half or more articles of the amendment, many times also substantive, and therefore there is no problem. Let us also act here in the same way and be able to find a wise solution, one that exists. And second. I will return, otherwise, the empty benches, the Democrats, the Janševs, the demagogos statement they made when they adopted the penal code, that we do not accept it, but not because it will impose sanctions and more penalties for pedophiles, because it will allow employers who do not have the impression of young mothers and women and the like - now we say the same: Where are their social feelings now if they are not prepared to find a solution for the people who are in the worst trouble? And the people covered by this law are a few hundred thousand of them in distress, especially this year, when there was a drastic increase in the prices of living needs and food, and it would be appropriate for the Government to change its position and support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u311	Thank you. Mr Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear congregation in this Hall! At first, I thought I would thank only for the word, because the discussions of the opposition in this Chamber do not bear fruit, nothing changes after we have tried to convince the majority of the correctness or irregularity of the decisions they make. But this time it's a little different. I think or I think that maybe this law could be adopted at first reading, of course if the predictions that were here by the two coalition parties or members of these coalition parties were announced to be true or if the words would become meat, then this first hearing should be successfully discontinued. I was a little disappointed, too, because yesterday, in the discussion on the authentic interpretation of Article 113, I heard - I can't find the right expression at all - such arguments as why this explanation is not necessary for me to feel, even though I am used to everything in this Chamber. Something about this has already been said today. So, yesterday we failed to protect the workers' representatives, so to speak, union confidants, however, members of the workers' councils in the company. Today we hear a similar story about pensioners. In doing so, I would like to point out in particular that the problems these people face in their daily lives are great. It is likely that pensioners with a low pension or disabled persons with a low disability not only go to my office but go to all the offices of the Member States and appeal to all of us to make a decision in this house that would make life easier for them that would enable them to live a decent life. But all too often, the story runs out in such a way that there are no significant changes. What has been going on in this area has already been described very vividly by my colleagues and colleagues in front of me. If memory doesn't deceive me, I've always assigned it to the solutions, including those proposed by DeSUS, because I somehow felt that they could not be directed against the pensioner. When we talked about pensions, about what happened to the wrongful pensioners in the previous term, about these two and a half pensions, and about how this government coalition will put an end to this problem, I wonder, of course, which of the pensioners today received those two and a half pensions of the differences that the opposition members then calculated today. At least my parents didn't get it for sure, and probably everyone else didn't. And when the argument that abuses are taking place in society tells us how to punish everyone on average then, of course, it cannot be denied, it cannot be agreed. We have heard again today that some children are driving with good vehicles to kindergarten, but they do not pay the price as they should. We have already adopted some changes in this area in this National Assembly, and if these mistakes are still actually happening in life, these mistakes need to be corrected; we need to find a solution to how we can ensure that those who have will pay more than those who do not have a way of balancing these matters, but not universally penalising everyone because some abuse the system. It's always been, and it will be. Those who abuse should be prevented or charged with the price of what they do. It's a gem supplement. Last summer we proposed and talked about the Draganj allowance. She's a magician's colleague. Majda Potrat talked about this last year and the initiatives have been given, and we will somehow await understanding this year. But this is the help they were talking about today, which is not permanent, which does not solve things systemicly, but is welcome, because some people really have a hard time living. But it will be after September or September. School food. So sang before the elections in the current term, the current call of the National Assembly, and then four years nothing, now, before the next elections, we have only been able to vote with great consensus in the National Assembly. But you won't believe it, and it doesn't start until autumn. Many things are only beginning in the autumn and when it was said that something other than what DeSUS colleagues suggest should be changed in our society, at least in part I would agree with it. To begin with, I suggest we replace the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u313	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u314	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I hope that the arguments cited were heard from our colleagues from the Ministry and will be taken into account. To make it easier for them to do this, let me list some of the other things they wrote themselves and try to suggest a thought in this regard. They wrote that if the government had spent these twenty million to increase social transfers, it would have been a step backwards; that's exactly what they wrote. Don't let a hundred thousand people with disabilities, pensioners, scholarships, sick people, and so on. I hope at least the President of DeSUS Karl Erjavec won't say such a stupid thing. The second thing I suggest is to consider if the government really wants to save money in public finances, because it wrote down that this would be too much pressure on public finances, to check which pressure is greater: these twenty million of our own, as it has written down, our request for government calculation should be twenty million, or the greater pressure is 70% higher than the amount it promises, 35 million for a single electoral donation to pensioners. Let him consider what is a greater savings for the state budget. The government wrote down - reading what it wrote - in order to reduce the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy by helping the poor. Let the government change the tax policy to make it easier for the government to invest, let the government give money for technology development, for science, and for higher education it will potentially increase competitiveness. And let the government, of course, prevent those who do so from robbing this Slovenian economy either with wages or with prizes, or with what they receive for supervision in bad companies in visual worlds, and perhaps Slovenian competitiveness will be slightly higher. And let me say that for the conclusion. What I suggest to the government is to slowly change the system. [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , which from day to day gives birth to multimillionaires, mainly with political provenance coming from somewhere, I will not talk about names, and let it change a system that does not [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u315	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my own debate, I will focus mainly on the government's response. In its reply, the government gives me arguments that are, to say the least, surprising. It is interesting that the Government, which does not give very much attention to the opinion of ECOFIN, for example in matters such as the warning of inflation, to the problem of inflation in Slovenia, as a key argument against the proposal of the Group of Members, quotes the 2007-2010 stability programme, this is a stability programme that has never been addressed in the National Assembly, and says that it is the European Commission that reminds us of how big a problem it would be if we changed the way in which it is valorisation. And, to put it simply, it is not possible to find €60 million in the state budget. You know, we can have a very broad debate on what we are spending an additional €60 million in the state budget. Does it really make sense to spend an additional EUR 60 million because we have almost 20% real growth in material costs or these or those subsidies? And it is unfortunate that the Government does not use the arguments raised by the European Commission in certain other matters to which it draws its attention. The fact that it is necessary, not only because of higher taxes on businesses, but because of serious savings at all points, to have a surplus of the state budget. But to say that we will achieve and have surplus in the state budget because we spend less on state budget pensions or because we spend less on social transfers, of course, saving hundreds of thousands of people who live very hard. If you look at the very detailed structure of what else we will be dealing with next week - the budget rebalance - and look at all these years, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, then you will see that the three main reasons why we have - we call it surplus. Since the State budget in recent years provides for less for pensions, this contribution to the pension fund is further reduced in 2008 because it is intended to adopt a law on, in a simplified manner, the nationalisation of the property entitlement of natural persons in the Insurance Office of Triglav and the dividends of the Insurance Office of Triglav will compensate for the revenue from the State budget. It's the first source. Another source is the decline in social transfers in GDP shares for two reasons. One reason, we say, is that I am talking about social and other transfers, especially transfers for the unemployed, there is really less because we have a slightly smaller number of unemployed, but the main reason why this proportion has fallen is because of more than two years of non-inclusion of social transfers, including correction or wrong law. And then the third reason is related to some of the relations between the congregations and the state regarding how we distribute our income. These are the main reasons why it's a surplus. At the same time, of course, we could have a big debate on how it is with other shares or other expenditure, but it does not look like much savings. Very high growth in material costs, relatively high wage growth of public authorities and low wage growth of public institutions. And now the government says - no, it is not possible to adopt a proposal for a law at first reading no more, but if we accepted it, everything would be wrong. Two years later, what I asked the President of the Government about this stability programme, and he said, "You know, this stability programme is a reflection of the serious efforts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." This stability programme reflects serious savings in people whose social transfers have not been raised in two years. That's what this is about. That's what this is about! And colleagues from the coalition party have, however, succeeded in presenting their own law - we know what fate has been experienced in the first version - and now we have the opinion of the same coalition, which rejects the opinion of members of the coalition from a very distant European Commission. This is what I call an unacceptable debate and an unacceptable opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I will conclude with the following thought: The government says that the existing solutions are in the law on the coordination of transfers and thus are more appropriate than the proposed ones. In what and for whom? They are more appropriate for the Minister of Finance, they are more appropriate for the President of the Government, but they are not more suitable for people receiving social transfers. And I think you have forgotten here to write that existing solutions are more appropriate for those in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia who do not therefore need to be saved on other elements. And next week, when we discuss the rebalancing, it will be very interesting to hear a debate about why, for God's sake, certain levels of expenditure in the state budget are so high. Why we have a 16% increase in material costs. However, we have zero growth in social transfers, zero growth in pensions, because of course there is no harmonisation. I'll support the marriage in my first reading. I believe that an appropriate correction or amendments to the balance could also ensure this law, but it will certainly give voters and voters a mandate in the autumn to those who, in determining which law is appropriate or inadequate, have the interest of the people, not of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u317	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u318	Thank you for your word. There's been a lot of talk. Like some of my other colleagues, I will also rely on the Government's response to the bill. In no way does the answer surprise me, because it is a number of all the answers that we Members and Members received on various initiatives since last August, when we called for amendments to the law on the coordination of transfers to individuals and households. At the time, you did not have to change the law, you did not agree to extraordinary valorisation, you did not agree to the Dragan Supplement, but then you responded to how the social situation of citizens and citizens in Slovenia improves, not least with the contributions we receive from Europe from the stores, and it was mentioned how much assistance we receive in material for the poorest. If the situation in this country were so good, then we should not have to accept these stocks. Various representatives of the unemployed and some civil associations also explain their concrete encounter with poverty in this country - and you say it is not. Finally, statistical data is sufficient for 2/3 citizens and citizens of this country to receive benefits from the active population under the average gross wage. Whether this money can be survived or not is a completely different question! And yesterday you should listen to how poverty is in this country. Poverty is not only a statistical figure, poverty is also a sociological and psychological phenomenon. The question is how many people in this country feel poor. And those who feel poor, and those who can't buy their children holidays, that we don't even talk about special brands, feel poverty, and their children don't feel involved in this society. And that's what I'm worried about. Because if we're a social state, and if we're thinking about what we're going to finance, then it's the right thing to do. Recently, a fellow Member said: "What! One Patria less, and there'll be subsidized lunches!" Yes! I say so too, but I said that a long time ago when the Patries were budgeted. There's still a lot to find! When you want to share the pre-election candy, you find the money; when you have to think sober and in time, all bets are against the wall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u319	Thank you. Does Mr. Žnidaršič want to be a proponent? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u320	Thank you very much. I would like to begin by expressing my gratitude to all those who see something good in this law and understand that it could not have been ideal, but that it can be made useful, fair and better with the appropriate amendments, one that will regulate the coordination of social transfers so that, for the first time, it will restore the rights of insurance because these social transfers are not, and, of course, improve the situation of those poorest layers of our population that have not received a single cent for two years on their rights due to the law adopted in 2006. In doing so, I would like to point out that the introduction of this law is not linked to the elections. In 2006, we opposed the existing law that frozen social transfers because we wanted to respect the coalition treaty, which on page 24 states that the government will not deteriorate the level of social security achieved. This law has reduced the level achieved. This shows government information on how much funding is being earmarked for something in this country. In this respect, I would like to appeal to the Government to make appropriate corrections, in particular on the points mentioned above. In doing so, I am referring to children’s allowances and family benefits. If the Government thinks that the existing mode of coordination is appropriate, then this can be proposed with the amendment and we will agree. I would also like the Government to operate on real savings or on costs arising from some law in future performances. I must say that after the government's already negative response to our law, we have been calculated and received data on Monday with cumulative negative consequences in a financial sense for three years together, just so that the number is very large and frightening. And, of course, that can't be realized, because it's just too serious. On the other hand, when the government invents itself, for what kind of intervention it immediately finds money and then there is no problem at all with some 20, 30, or 40 or 50 million euros. And here I would like to draw the attention of the Government to an unprincipled approach and, of course, to the deception of citizens, beneficiaries and, of course, of us, not least when it comes with explanations that are in conflict with their own records. Thus, in our Act on the Cessation of the Law on Social Transfers, it has stated that it is aware of the harmful effects of the law in force, but it does not support that a harmful law, as it has itself assessed, ceases to be in force. So I think that principle needs to be maintained here. In doing so, I hope that I can conclude that the Government's representatives present are not behind the Government's prepared negative position. We do not believe that the Ministry's representatives present would wholeheartedly defend a negative position. I also believe that they are aware that that law was an intervention in rights that do not belong to social transfers and should therefore not be included in this law. In particular, I'm referring to pension and disability insurance rights, health insurance. In view of the fact that for two years the disease, which is the income of sick people, is significantly lower than personal income, if they can do something like this, can only be invented by a minister who is no longer in this position and proposes a law that has affected those in this direction. The scholarships are relatively small and are smaller than ever before in our country, let's say in the former system, if I may say so. And last year they were frozen. With what right? Then, of course, with a little populism, the law on diabolical nutrition. We support everything that's good for people. But not with that kind of "fiction," as it's called. And in this sense, I hope that the law will be supported in the first reading, because it is able to correct it to be acceptable to all.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u321	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Yeah, I'm opening the application. Mr. Friend, please. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues. The data, which is undoubtedly accurate, that 52% of citizens are dissatisfied with a situation that they do not have an impact on, is said to say that 52% of citizens think that living worse than they did a year ago is also relevant data. If we are talking about social transfers, which we have given to a number of people at the end of the current term, especially to the Government, this is far from what it should be if we compare the increase in the cost of living, the cost of living in the basket, unionally said, and when we compare inflation, which is greater than any coordination that the country has wanted to make. It would be realistic to expect that the Government is also consistent in this matter because it always repeats that it wants to have a system-wide solution. And there's a little bit of a lack of systematicity. The fact is, whether we want to or willfully overlook it, that is, of course, now the question. We have adopted something with the last amendment of this law, which is far from what should have been done. And what is now proposed is that, in accordance with Article 150 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, transfers to individuals are coordinated according to the growth of the gross wage on the employee, which I think is the only right thing to do. And that should be regular. No one has a bearing on the fact that, in fact, this matter is more expensive in terms of life than those we give it to. They can't influence it, the state can influence it whether it makes life worse or improves the state of life in the country. And just because we think that this is actually an emergency and that this has been pointed out several times by a government party, this is DeSUS, and that, in fact, this proposal has been played once before, it would be right to listen to it from the government side as well. Now that you have a qualified candidate, distinguished representatives from the government, when it is a representative of the government party, that you are not looking again for excuses that it is not possible to do so. If we look at the budget that you like to talk to, when one thing is impossible to complete, you can also see that there is an excess. We also believe from this point of view that it is necessary to listen to this and to supplement the existing law with a proposal, but of course also to provide a sustainable source of decent life for those who expect us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u323	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, in accordance with the meeting's timetable, on Thursday 22. 5. In the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. Period of the day - First defence proposal for a law on the management of assets acquired by the sale of state shares. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Mr Jožef Školč. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members, with the first-signed Mr Jožef Školč, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the text to the representative of the proposed law for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Milan Friday, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u324	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All the rest of us who persist in this hall today! Instead of the first-signed Mr Školč, who had to be absent from this point because of his obligation, I take over this task of proposing. We are concerned about the fact that some politicians are not aware of the situation when all the data show that the pension system established in the time of Bismarck will simply not work in the future. The solidarity of younger generations with older generations, the work of the working generation for the older generation will simply not be enough to cover the liabilities to the pension fund. In addition to pension reform, the sustainability of the pension allowance will also need to be facilitated by other measures that are becoming necessary in some other countries of Europe. Such a way of easing the situation in which the Republic of Slovenia will come in the future can be achieved in the manner proposed by this law. The task and responsibility of policy is to bear not only the responsibility for the present but also for future generations. Our task is to reduce the risks of significantly deteriorating status and living conditions for future generations, our children and grandchildren. The adoption of the law that we propose is therefore necessary not only in our opinion but also necessary. We are at a time when representatives of the rulings like to stress that the budget generates surpluses. It would be better if we even thought about where the surplus might be. The task of policy and every government is to make good use of the budget times for the period when different trends and conditions will occur in the economy and society. It is therefore the idea of this law that the surplus or purchase of state-owned property is put into a special fund with which the institution, which is outside the reach of current policy, is professionally managed by the Bank of Slovenia. In doing so, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concludes that the Bank of Slovenia is not responsible for the management of these tasks. The Bank of Slovenia Act makes it possible for the Bank of Slovenia to perform this task in its 12th Article. It is necessary to read the law in its entirety and not only in the work to which it suits. In the proposal for a law or the establishment of a fund, we are talking about a passive way of managing assets, as is the case with mutual funds. In this way, the State withdraws from the active management of certain companies and thus influences the decisions of these companies. And that's what the government has been providing for all this time. Unfortunately, she did less than she promised and actually did. By adopting and joining in supporting this proposal, I would prove that it is and is still serious. Examples of comparable funds, as proposed, are already one thing: Norway and Ireland are comparable countries with us. Such thinking is already in place in Russia, China and the Arab countries. Slovenia would be a pioneer and model for others in Europe by making such a decision. Of course, it is most important and we believe that it is very difficult for us to understand such a decision to accept the fact that the funds of the Fund are closed, that they do not serve current needs and that the policy has not affected them for 15 years. After this period, however, it is necessary to reach a high national consensus at the Fund's disposal, as a specific law on the availability of funds from the Fund will be required by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present, of course, of the Council at that time. This is what Article 4 of the Law provides. We cannot accept the one-sided assessment of the Government in our opinion that the proposed law is prepared superficially and professionally. Instead of trying to improve the law with any additions or amendments to the articles, the Government has reached a disqualification. If the Secretary of State, who is today as a representative of the Government between us in the National Assembly and between us, has promised, we have read that he is capable of making tax legislation with which another Ireland will be able to do so, we are convinced that he is also able to use all his knowledge and ability to improve, not criticise, this law. Therefore, the call to all those who think about the future to support the law, to comment on this thinking and to improve the law with us. Those who become egotistical and stick to their firm stand, just be aware that this is what you do to shape your destiny. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u325	Thank you. Mr. Shircelj, you want a word on behalf of the Government for an introductory additional explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The first-signed group of Members, Josef Školč, drafted a proposal for a law on the performance of assets obtained from the sale of State shares proposing that a special fund be set up for the sale of State shares by Banka Slovenije. Management should be directed towards maintaining and increasing its value for 15 years from the establishment of the Fund, with the assets of the Fund should not be allowed to be held in any form of removal. However, only on the basis of a high level of national political consensus, which is based on a specific law adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority, would be allowed to make available after the expiry of this period. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia disagrees with such a proposal for a law on the sale of state shares. It is clear from the proposed provisions that when the draft law is drawn up, the legal arrangements in force in the area in question have not been sufficiently examined. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposed law is not prepared sufficiently professionally. The proposed law interferes with the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Public Finance. In accordance with Article 7 of the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia manages property and other property of the Republic of Slovenia, unless otherwise specified in respect of individual matters by law. Reference to the applicants in point 1. The assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law that the proposed law is adopted on the basis of the first indent of the second indent of Article 64 of the Public Finance Act, which is intended to provide that the issues covered by the proposed law can be regulated by a specific law, is mistaken in the view of the Government. Governance of state and municipal property is already regulated by the Public Finance Act, Articles 67 to 81. This chapter also sets out how state assets are sold and how purchases are used. The purchase from the sale of capital investments by the State or the municipality is primarily used for debt repayments in financing accounts. It is also clear from the presentation of regulation in other legal systems that in these countries the purpose of establishing specific funds was to provide for future pension funds. The Republic of Slovenia already has a capital company of pension and disability insurance established to create additional funds for pension and disability insurance. This legal organisational form allows, in the current situation, to adapt to market conditions in capital and financial markets in the implementation of the investment strategy and efficiency in asset management. In the opinion of the Government, there are only a few general principles, restrictions, key measures to help improve I apologize, but the proposal does not contain key measures to improve asset management. [[...]] The proposal for the Fund to be managed by Banka Slovenije deviates from the existing concept of the public finance system and does not justify with anything why such a solution would be good and what it would actually achieve. It is even proposed to significantly interfere with the system of competences of the various national authorities, where Banka Slovenije represents a supervisory authority that oversees the functioning of the banking sector. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, however, represents the executive authority, which operates in all areas through the ministries and is also responsible for the management of state property. In this case, the State’s financial resources are taken care of by the Ministry of Finance in the context of a single treasury account. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the existing provisions of the Slovenian legal system are not exhausted and that the purpose of the proposed law can be achieved already under the applicable legislation, namely the Law on Public Finances. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia disagrees with and does not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u327	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Sašo Pece has the floor to present the position of the Lipa Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u328	Your Honors are here! I would be very happy if the words of Mr Shirtzl, Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, were not merely an illusion. In my firm opinion, of course, it is a pure illusion to come from the fact that the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance will be able to pay so-called pensions in the coming years. Probably all of us who get to know at least a little about the economy or the state of the society or the institution, we know that's not the case. We know that if the existing system remains unchanged, unfortunately, we will very soon meet with the ability of the said company, the institution, to pay our pensions. Allow me to begin, in my opinion, you will probably all agree that each government owns state property more or less willingly. And the current government owns it extremely greedily. First fact. The second fact to come from is that I am convinced today and here that none of the 90 Members can list the entire property of the country, i.e. in the companies sold by the current government in this mandate. None of the Members know what kind of investment the Government has sold out. Why doesn't he know? Because it is one of the most untransparent things that we have certainly been able to say is that we have witnessed everything since independence. How is the sale of state property in the Republic of Slovenia taking place? The National Assembly shall agree only on less than a tenth of the sales of state and real property. This is the decree adopted once a year by the National Assembly. Usually within the framework of the budget, the rebalancing or the law on the implementation of the budget. At that time, the National Assembly meets at ten, perhaps a twenty-minute debate every year with a decision on the sale of State tangible property. In that decree where we talk about the most important institutions, around every institution we sell, let NKBM, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, short for institutions, write five or six lines, lines, not pages, why the Government of the Republic decided to sell its share, ownership stake in an institution. There is no debate between Members. As a rule, five or six of the same Members are always involved in this debate each year. Others, identical pictures, like today and now here, are not in the hall at that time. This is a matter which, unfortunately, does not receive any attention from Members. Not just, not enough. Another system of sales, which takes place simultaneously within our country, is a list of sales that is accepted every so long by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In my firm belief, without any basis. I have before me the answer to last year's question, which is the investment the country is planning to sell. I was then given an answer, 231 investments, ownership shares of the state, not the government that I care about, nothing the government sells to you past the National Assembly, none of the Members know that this is for sale, let alone from citizens and citizens. The answer to 231 investments, or, in other words, perhaps a little bit more understandable, from 231 companies that the government, the government, is planning to sell, looks something like this. The Minister of Economy, in cooperation with the expert team of the government cabinet, usually sets out on Fridays the companies which are capital-interesting for each political party or for each political February or capital friend. On this list, when I got it, I was surprised because it was some extremely good company for which there was no need to sell it. On the basis of this list, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia concluded at its 84th regular meeting on 27.7.2006, in order to sell 231 companies or investments without any explanation. No company on this list is explained why, not how, not what will happen to the purchase, in short, zero. Only in rows is the name of the company written. And the third mode of sales is those owned by state-owned enterprises, i.e. that the companies themselves own other companies or investments. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at least to the extent it makes an impression, has no idea that these shares are being sold. And that's where the capital is parked. I heard a very good phrase "mother of all affairs" days ago. The mother of all affairs, at least in my opinion, is the abandonment of the Soda and Kato exclusive current politics. Thus, the Court and Kad, which have obtained the right to dispose of these 231 companies or to invest, as we refer to it, are not responsible for a successful or unsuccessful sale, for a purely non-performing sale. They do not answer to the National Assembly, nor do they answer to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Whenever I asked the question, and believe me, there were few of them who even controlled this sale, I received an answer from the Minister for the Economy of the Court and when they are completely sovereign in their decisions. I don't think it's been a bad month when we talked to the Committee on the Economy about one of these companies, Paloma, where a simple representative of the Government said that it simply affects the decision of the Court and when it's not that it can't be. In spite of the fact that the Government granted some time before that the right to sell beyond any plan, the Court and Kadu. And these 231 investments companies are sold by the Court or Kad. None of us can know anything, nor can the Government of the Republic of Slovenia know anything, but it is left to the gentlemen who are placed exclusively in their positions through the government's meeting. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the other hand, continues the gentlemen who have started the work mentioned above. In my opinion, despite all the efforts made by the proposer of this law, it would make sense before the very way in which and what purchases come about at all. The National Assembly has not adopted any act to discuss a strategy, when, to whom, at what price to sell. Then, in our country, very interesting things happen. And I'll give you an example: the Slovenian steel industry. Today, on my question, Minister Vizjak has defined this sale as one of the better sales that we can even imagine. We all know how Russian Cox bought it. The flag of future stocks. The flag of future stocks. So this is the same way that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia criticises it in other cases and shows it as an exclusive tycoon. However, where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia agrees with the buyer, it shall allow him the instrument of the so-called acquisition of future shares. When ownership by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or a person does not correspond, this is the most catastrophic thing in our country. But this was an example, an example that Mr Vizjak pointed out a few hours ago as an excellent model of sales. Hereinafter, the National Assembly and strategy, the way in which state property is sold. In my introduction, I counted three sales systems. We know that we have not met with the law on how to privatise the banking sector, not the law, we can go in more detail, the law on privatisation of the NLB, the law on privatisation of the NKBM and similar things. Personally, I would argue that I would be the most honest, particularly transparent, in terms of the people who built and created this property, because it was not created only by today's generation and does not have the right of the current government, nothing to do to you, nothing, past all the sales that the previous generations have been building. But like I said, every government is more or less willing to sell state property. And as I have already said, more aggressively than the current government is selling, but not only are I talking about large institutions, not only generators, promoters of individual economic activities, I am also talking about smaller, so-called desirable shares, that is, the property that makes it possible, once again, to park capital. And all of a sudden, when people find out about it, it's an octopus. But no one comes to that basic step, that is, the original sin. What happens to securities held by New Credit Bank Maribor, for example. The securities, let's take it, I think the story is an old year and something, the securities, I think the PETG label, in short, Petrol, goes completely past any of the Members, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I believe that even Mr. Shircelj now I don't know what I'm talking about, but when the NKBM administration, the NKBM, which was still a few months ago wholly owned by the State, decides to sell Petrol, even though it had the market price of 1,000 units, sells it for 750. Who's he selling it to? Through the diocese. But we all know which financial institution is run by Slovenian bishops or some bank. Who's standing there? Who's the middleman? From the clouds to Mr. Fridays and things like that. Also, not you, mate Milan, I know we understand each other and we know exactly who. But this way, gentlemen, is creating capital parking. And then a group of Members comes in and demands an extraordinary meeting about one case, while they themselves allow - not once, 10 times worse things. When the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not once said how a bank can, it does not matter whether it will be a Ljubljana bank or a Maribor bank, because it does not play a role, it redistributes ownership in also state-owned companies. I only gave the case for Petrol. But no. Firstly, Members are not interested in this at all, I don't know, perhaps because of their lack of knowledge, perhaps because the leaders of the groups of Members do not allow them to do so or not, because the Government does not allow them to do so. And then it comes - I am sorry that there is no Prime Minister of the Government - the secretary within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and tells how wonderful the existing situation is, how legislation today is so that no one can do anything else. And because it's not in place to get upset, it's been a long time since I've known there's nothing to be done with anger alone. All I really hope for, either personally or on behalf of the Lip Group, is that people will miss you. Therefore, to talk about any transparency of the current government in the system of sales of state property, at the creation of parking lots The current Slovenian Government is a school case for theft of state property or the possession of state property. [[...]] Any one of us can look at that act I was talking about at the beginning, it's a decree on the sale of state, financial and real property. This is an act that's fat in mind I'm talking about, 25 to 30 pages, which covers a few ten large institutions in our country. All other sales, ladies and gentlemen, take place through Soda and Kad and take place through corporate administrations, through connected persons and similar things. When Mr Bajuk's Minister of Finance, or finally Mr Viszak's Minister of Economy, is turned to the Parliamentary Group, in this case the Lipa Group, to be included in the system of transition from a single to a two-tier system of the Agency for the Market in Securities or the Office for the Prevention of Competition, you know what the two ministers' response is: these are independent bodies. Today I am listening to the same minister, who says in writing that they are independent authorities, that he cannot interfere with their work, Mr Visiak, who says: ATVP and the Office of Competition Protection are guilty. They should be shut down, former director. Yeah, who's he making fun of? The Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Minister himself, the Government as a whole? I don't know. And as far as the proposal is concerned. How many times has the National Assembly been able to talk about the sale of state property on the initiative of one of the members of Lipa? So, in the context of that institution of parliamentary issues, there is an extensive debate. A lot of times. But not once have there been enough independent Members who would vote the next day to at least discuss the system. In spite of the fact that I stress once again and once again that there is no Member of the 1990s who, at least roughly, dreams about what the Government has sold, directly or indirectly, in this mandate. None of us have any idea what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has sold in this term. We'll be back in ten, fifteen years, maybe when the capital is reparked, when we suddenly get the so-called young government advisors, and then in six, seven years, we'll be wondering how they could come from what I don't know. At the end of the term of office, we will have an extraordinary meeting on the parking of capital, built on a single case. What brought Mr. Janez Janša into power in 2004? The so-called triple K and anti-corruption, i.e. the Place, Clientelism and Corruption, are sitting. It was a night session. Three things were being talked about. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Ultra in connection with the Golobic policy and I think it was still in connection with the purchase of the plane. All of Slovenia then stood: corruption, corruption, corruption and Mr Janez Janša beat himself in the chest and said, "I will not allow it." Four years later, this same man, despite winning the elections, despite the fact that three years, you can take in complaints or no complaints, steals state property in direct form or indirect form, comes again with a request for a meeting, while we all forget that he has scissors and canvas for all of this in his hands and that he can't walk past it, but when I say Janez Janša, of course, I embody the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, government policy, including New Slovenia, the Human Party, who always does not do anything other than just kim and pressure the DA, although I think that you are rarely firmly convinced that you know. But it's a strategy. And as far as the ruling is concerned today. I cannot say that I am a strong advocate of that moratorium or definition in Article 4, which speaks of the 15-year freezing of capital. I believe in Banka Slovenije, I must stress this, inappropriately more than in various institutions, companies, for such or other testimony. We also agree with the Lipa Group with the quorum majority for the availability of the financial assets that will be made available to the Fund. Today, of course, we will support the bill. And if by some miracle the law will get the necessary majority to go on, of course also from this city I am also predicting the amendment of the Lip Group that the availability is possible before, 15 years ago, also by a decision on the Quorum majority. Today, however, one thing I would like to achieve from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is that the National Assembly of the Slovenian Public at least informs the Slovenian media of what it has sold. But the National Assembly isn't able to do that yet, it's not even capable of that information. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] whenever a discussion of the said matter is requested, on average twenty-two, twenty-seven Members and Members of the National Assembly support the matter, all others oppose. [[...]] But they don't realize it's the property of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u329	Thank you. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u330	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, a very nice greeting to everyone. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will not open this law at least by transferring all purchases from the sale of assets that we will recover in the coming time to the Slovenian bank. This will not be a major solution to this problem, nor will it be by prohibiting any kind of possession of this property. Of course, the law is also not well prepared to deal with the problem, which is possible elsewhere, in order to try to manage state property more rationally in some way. And perhaps we could go a little further from this current bill. We are with the Property Act, there is the original sin of all these events that we like to talk about very much, we blame each other, we used to have all of the common assets that we shared in the form of certificates. We divided this, of course, and established the company Kad and the Court. One is intended to ensure that the property is fertilised for the purposes of the pension register and, of course, for the purposes of compensation linked to another law. Of course, we have also been able to invest one part of our certificates in so-called pistachios, which should also in some way be a substitute for those who will take care of the investment and development of our economy, but not in the way they behaved. Above all, this was the beginning of this process, and then we opened up a hunt for this property. Modest simple people quickly sold their certificates, mostly for a very low price. It would probably be right and right in this law to teach uneducated people at least, or in some way to adopt a moratorium on the sale of these certificates in marriage, for this would probably avoid many of these things that have occurred later. We even said it was some sort of irrelevant paper. And so it happened that some actually donated or sold these papers for a small part. Then we went on to look for money in this money hunt, for equity shares. Here was the most important weapon of connection to current politics. This is the only way you could get that power in your hands so you could get the right shares, get the money to buy them. And here I think that the banks were the ones that were the most practical contributors to this wild privatisation, because they also started to issue money on the basis of the shares they were going to buy. We've known these cases since the insurance company that banks have been taking future stock purchases into the flag. This was, of course, a big mistake, unacceptable, and I still think that from a banking point of view, banking was wrong. Then we turned all these things around, and I could also list a number of cases where in a strange way this privatisation happened, and of course people have come to a huge amount of property. Most of these cases happened before this government. Here some of the results of previous events have only been shown. But I think it's time for certain things to be fixed. I think all the events can be seen, seen. I think there's been a whole series of mistakes here, the non-action of state authorities, supervisory institutions. There have been a lot of maneuvers that have been done, tax evasion. Various things have been done, so it would be wise to look at them, find out. However, it is likely that the damage caused by the inadequate functioning of the State, inadequate protection, inappropriate targeting, will not be fully remediable. Above all, those, the great majority, I have already said here about this speaker that unfortunately we did not provide some legal certainty to these small shareholders, and so it has come to be that the value of the property is probably now around €60.70 billion, which we all owned 15 years ago, is now in the possession of several thousand people. It was a disgrace to all the governments that were not to provide some sort of order to prevent it. Of course, talk about sales, which were, what were the state assets at that time, and especially about the various shares in Kad. Here I think it was necessary, but not today, but already 15 years ago to determine more precisely how sales are to be made, the conditions under which sales are to be issued both in Kad and in the Court of Justice and for the State. I have already said several times in the debates that it would be very useful and smart, and some countries in their regimes also have this to concentrate and set up for all the state property of one owner who would manage it in the interests of the State and its taxpayers and take care of the proper cultivation and management of these funds, and this under very precise rules of the game as to how things are going. I've mentioned this before. I think that one such path would actually be right and it will be necessary, if not now, to correct in the near future certain things that we have in the Kada and Soda Act, how much they have to contribute to the state treasury. One of the ideas was to withdraw the country from the economy and, as a result, to follow this idea has been sold many times when it is not necessary. I think we're living in one situation, not now, even a few years ago, when there wasn't really any need to rush off by selling. But we all said out loud that the country was a bad host. In my view, it is not necessarily that the country is a bad host. Things can also be arranged this way, and responsibility can also be placed in such a way that the country can also be a good master. I know the cases, I will mention Finland, there was an economic representative of Parliament, the chairman of the Committee on the Economy. There is an economy in which then the finance goes on and other departments say that they have a special ministry, which also has a lot of shares in that country in businesses. They have a very thorough strategy, and each year they have quite a lot of dividends or revenues from these equity shares, and this can be included in their national budget and can, of course, reduce the tax burden on their taxpayers. This improves the competitive capacity and thus the conditions for market operation. Something like that, I would say, a single ministry or within the economic ministry under precisely defined conditions, would have to be provided, probably would have been good, it would probably have to be done and done. There is no way that the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party do not support this proposal for a law. As I said before, with the transfer to the central bank of all purchases, there is no problem, with at least 90% of what the predecessor was talking about, he was talking only about sales issues, whether the prices are right or whether these things are right, and nothing is being resolved, there will still be sales problems and all the problems of managing this property will remain. This would just cement something, and all the other problems that we're talking about here in this National Assembly, everything since I've been here, we've been throwing eyes at each other, and they're still unresolved. Therefore, of course, we cannot support such a law. Nor is it consistent with existing legislation and would it be extremely difficult to correct it, so I cannot support it. As I have already said, the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party are aware that there are so many things open in this area of state property management, as well as governance through Kad and Sod, that there will probably be a need for a new law to be put in place and adopted. I think that we are in this economic area, in the transfer of ownership, that our market economy has in some ways actually become a more hunting ground for those who want money quickly. But I say exclusively that their weapons are related to that policy that makes their laws. I personally was in the company myself, I was the director of a large company, I told people, I wrote to wait for them to sell their ownership certificates that they have filed, shares from the factory, that it is the only guarantee that they will retain such certain rights. And those who had different opinions who wanted to pick up quickly and own a company were stronger. They offered the money, and then I had to leave the company. There were thousands of such stories in Slovenia, and crying for them makes no sense. However, it may still be possible to correct certain injustices that have been committed somewhere, but we will not be able to do anything about this law, so we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u331	Thank you. Mr Milan M. Cwickl will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u332	Thank you so much for saying that. In that late middle of the evening, I had to pinch myself when I listened to the words and when I saw them being spoken by the SDS representative and the Chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. And I must say I agree with Mr. Starman. The problems of managing financial assets are very serious problems, but of course they are the subject of the work of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I regret that we have not been able to say much on this committee so far, given the great dilemmas of the President. Well, now to the law. The asset management law obtained from the sale of State shares is likely to have the biggest problem in the title. We will not support the law in such a form, but we will not oppose it in the first reading. The reasons are as follows. First of all, why don't we go against the law? Because the law essentially reflects the opposition's lack of confidence in the government's functioning. And this is about how someone understands property in the Republic of Slovenia. And, of course, the coalition, which has embarked on its 'winning path' in narration, has understood the management of financial assets, as Mr Starman said, as a hunting ground. The hunting ground where the stolen laws, especially the takeover law, and, as the Minister of Economy has said today, the failure of the supervisory authorities and the functioning of those who have assessed that if the President of the Government hopes to sell Mercator in the way that it was done, I can also buy something past the law. I think we must all be aware that there is no ideal capitalist system. That there is a conflict between capital, during work, and that the government is to regulate this conflict. That is also why we chose a model of privatisation, or first of all property transformation, 15 years ago, where two important state funds were created to retain public interests. And this law should not talk about anything else, but how the assets that these two state funds have are doing better. We do not see policy withdrawing from the economy as a necessary fast sale of financial assets and then turning it into money, into euros and then into the management of these euros by the Bank of Slovenia. We don't see those needs. We believe that politics must be self-sufficient, even through such a law, which would be simple, as a law on the management of financial assets and in which we would commit ourselves in the National Assembly, so that we will not sell it for the next 15 years. Content, colleagues and colleagues, this has been said since 1999 in the Public Finance Act, which states that current consumption should not be sold. Then, in 2002, there was an exception so that every year the law could determine that maybe it wasn't exactly like that, and then we made up for telecommunications excuses, etc., etc. However, content in Slovenia, the sovereign fund - SOVEREIGN FUND, in fact, with Sod and Kad since 1993/1994, as well as comparisons in the law when you speak, colleagues, to a certain extent, and Norway about Australia, you are talking about the same thing. The Irish case is exactly the same. The Irish case refers to the fact that we have a national pension reserve fund and when is that. The problem with Kad and Sod is that you don't respect your own statutes. After 2001, before I was replaced as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Court, I reached an amendment to the Statute of the Court of Justice in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which simply states that it is followed in the Public Finance Act when the shares of the Soda are sold. And in 2005, when the new government came forward, this statute began to be violated, because, of course, the Public Finance Act says that it is necessary for a little more sales to have more offers, to have a public tender, to have competitive offers, to have transparent procedures and then to be achieved - either the right price or to support the development of companies. As is known today, this was not the case in Mercator's case, and in some other cases, not in the Court, nor in Kadu, the institutions did not work, and the result is that this was sold to friends from the "famous" August meeting. Therefore, of course, in order to get the policy out of the economy and to clearly distinguish between ownership and management, it is not necessary to sell everything first, because if everything were sold first as envisaged by this law, the Slovenian stock exchange would first collapse. And if the Slovenian stock exchange were to collapse, it would first blow up the property of a large number of people who have been suffering in the past years, but slowly began to believe that there is some transparency in the Slovenian stock exchange, in public companies. I am not going into who introduced this law at the press conference of our opposition colleagues, we have rejected the co-signing of this law because we thought that the law in this context was inconceivable. Today, however, we have it at first reading. At first reading, it is right to say that the law is a reflection of mistrust in this government and, of course, let us see how it can be corrected. So, if the basic objective of the law, such as elsewhere in the world, is to maintain long-term stability of the pension system, of course looking for development opportunities for the good management of this financial asset, which means finding development opportunities for companies that such a "SOVEREIGN FUND" has in management, of course we have no problem. In fact, this is, in some ways, the law on the conversion of Kad and the rest of the Sod, after I hope, we will end denationalisation with surplus and the decision that the Government, in order to limit policy only to the management of public shareholders or the remaining financial assets held by the State. This, of course, means a clear investment policy of the Fund, because this fund remains a long-term owner, so this must be resolved by an appropriate variant of the type of shares, priority and so on. Something similar that has been known in some cases. In the case of the sale of financial assets, if, of course, there is either an enemy takeover or a need for sale due to the fact that an individual undertaking would leave and change its strategic plan, then the investment policy of the Fund will be determined for this asset. Probably this fund, this "SOVEREIGN FUND" should also define clearly what the national interest is in all of this, as the transformed Kad or as, I don't know, the rest of what this financial asset is. Certainly it is not the national interest that we have seen in the case of Mercator's sale, which is ultimately the national interest of individual owners, who are now the fourth or the majority owners of Laško or Istrabenz brewery. I think that's clear to everyone. This is not a national interest, it is an individual's interest. It is in the national interest, however, that such a sovereign fund provides a fundamental basis for these companies to be taxable in Slovenia in the long term, because the only national interest is the status of these companies, i.e. the tax status in Slovenia, in order for these companies to pay the corresponding taxes through payment to the Slovenian state budget. In this context, however we compare the transition processes in former Eastern Europe, Slovenia has done the best of all. See the share of taxes on the income of washed persons in other state budgets in Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, if I only mention higher-grain countries and Slovenia and you will see that our decision to privatise law is still an important proportion of companies established in Slovenia, regardless of whether they are public companies or even partly or mostly in foreign ownership, but the status change is impossible and therefore taxes are paid here and then it affects the coverage of other expenditure. And if that is how we understand the national interest, the strategic interests of individual companies and the strategic interests of Slovenian taxpayers and recipients of services from the state budget, then we are very quickly together. That is why I understand this law as some kind of upgrade to the Public Finance Act, and Mr Šircelj, I have written this Public Finance Act, and you do not think it is the opposite, is the upgrade. However, the upgrade is because the decisions on the sale of state, financial and real property that the Government is transferring to the National Assembly are too weak for the Government to do what it is doing in this mandate. However, the law is probably inconsistent with the Bank of Slovenia Act, especially because Banka Slovenije does not have such tasks now. Why was the Bank of Slovenia selected in this law? Probably because there is no other institution in this Slovenia, unfortunately, you can no longer believe in this Janša government. Here today, Minister Vizjak criticised the UVK and the ATVP, the Insurance Supervisory Agency is under the authority of Minister Bajuk, who was not even present today to answer this question, so you are left with only the Bank of Slovenia. Whether Banka Slovenije is the best mechanism or not, this should be discussed. But surely the Bank of Slovenia is smaller because of its smaller or if you want a smaller involvement in the implementation of monetary policy in Slovenia, because it is defined elsewhere, it probably has some relaxed capacities and some of these capacities could be diverted into the management of such a sovereign fund, I call it the transformed Kad and the rest of the Court. Colleagues, then in marriage, unfortunately, they're too focused on, I'll tell you how they're going to manage something, and less on how they're going to manage what they're going to do. Therefore, the law is flawed in the work that discusses how this property will be made available for sale. Because if you want to manage for 15 years, you have to get it first. So I say that if we understand this matter as a transformation of Kad, then of course you can get closer. In certain elements, of course, there is a particular problem that the law strongly favours certain types of asset managers, gives some tasks to the Bank of Slovenia, which are also controversial, of course, because the matter needs to be aligned with the European Central Bank, but we are obviously used to it in this National Assembly. Next week we will be monitoring the SID law, which is not at all in line with the European Central Bank, even if it interferes with the competence of the Bank of Slovenia with this system of European central banks when it operates in Slovenia. Allow me to comment on the government's opinion for the rest of the time. I'll come from what my pal Starman said, which says privatisation is a big hunting ground. The government obviously doesn't realize this, because the government has actually mixed everything up. The government has confused that, of course, it is indeed authorised to manage real estate and, of course, also with financial assets, but the government does not own this property. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, which is legally the formal owner of the property, manages the property. And of course, the fact that a colleague from SDS said that this has become a hunting ground is only a reflection that people understand that by getting the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to get the director of Slovenia d.o.o., not even Slovenia's shareholding company, but Slovenia d.o.o., because we have a society with limited responsibility, only the director, simply stated, can do just what he wants. And this has happened, as we said before. That is why the government is actually very awkward in its opinion. For the government says two. We do not need this law because we already have Kad, but at the same time the government took a decision in July 2006 on how virtually everything in Kad and the Court will sell and sell it quickly. In fact, it carried out the transitional activities necessary in this law in its intention. That is why, of course, I think that the Government has a serious problem when it explains that, in fact, Kad is the solution, and yet it manages this fund with its policies. Well, I've already said that I agree with those comments made by the Government regarding the Bank of Slovenia. It's about the invitation to tender. I don't think it's as much a problem as he says here that the Court of Auditors can't give. The Court of Auditors could probably make sense, however, to carry out a preliminary audit of whether such operators are, in particular if they were domestic, but appropriate, which is consistent with the separation of supervisory and management functions. But you know, I cannot help but say that this same government has proposed a SID law, where, for the supervisors of the Slovenian Export Company, it assumes for the first time that the Ministers are ministers and assumes that the Bank of Slovenia, in licensing for the control and supervision of banking, cannot verify whether they have the same conditions as the other supervisors. Which, of course, is a major conflict and we will talk about it. If the Government really thinks that the purpose of the proposed law can be achieved already within the framework of the existing legislation, it is the Public Finance Act, but of course I would like to hear how it intends to do so. I think that the Kadu Act, the Court Act, the Public Finance Act are three separate laws and you can't just say that you have a law on the conclusion of Kad, which will now, I don't know, become a direct or indirect budgetary user. This, of course, simply indicates a misunderstanding of the Public Finance Act. I'm concluding. In 1993, 1994 Slovenia started to build a system of capitalist property by transforming social property into individualized property of certified beneficiaries and 10% Kada and 10% of Soda, which are owned by the Republic of Slovenia, and it is just as we did until 2004, that the government behaves responsibly when managing this property. With the decisions of this government at the beginning of the mandate, in particular with some sales and then a decision in the middle of the mandate to accelerate the sale of Kad and Sod, shares in Kad and the Court, and for no reason at all, the reason was the withdrawal of the country from the economy, in some reform framework it was written as a wish, but of course much damage was done. It is therefore right to suspend in some way the procedures for the sale of state-owned and real-estate assets, in particular financial assets, in accordance with the Decree on the Programme for the Sale of State-owned Assets, for example, I do not know, we have seen the story of Telekom, to prescribe procedures more precisely in Kad and the Court, even if necessary with the provisions of this law or such a law, and then, of course, to decide and limit ourselves. Policy in Slovenia for the next 15 or 20 years: that the ongoing financing of pension, health, municipal and state budget bills will not be financed by selling state financial assets, nor will non-real property. Unless the real estate is sold or the source of the purchase of other real property. There is nothing wrong with renewing this commitment in 2008. This link was adopted in September 1999 by the adoption of the Law on Public Finance and the adoption of this commitment, Slovenia gave a green light for the entry into the European Union and also for the taking over of the conditions of the Economic and Monetary Union and the adoption of the euro. These are the facts. And we will not oppose the law, it needs to be corrected, including the title and properly reshape, which is, of course, possible in another reading. However, I believe that this will not be done by the current government, but I believe that this can be the basis or one of the important factors and programmes of the next coalition. Therefore, it is also true to discuss this law in the second and third readings of the National Assembly, and therefore the Group of Social Democrats, which has very clear views on the exit from the economy, which clearly distinguishes between ownership and governance, will not oppose it at this stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u333	Thank you. Mr Milan Petek will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Those of us who are signed on the proposal of the law are also members of the LDS Group, which, of course, makes it impossible for our position to be different, such as the position of interpretation, which we also justify in our proposal for a law. I am pleased and pleased to hear that in these few presentations we have heard what we intended and wanted to hear - that all those who represented the views of political parties have found that, either in previous stages or even during this period, there is a lot of mismanagement and behaviour in relation to state property, whatever. And it has been wrong in the past that, in this way and through such procedures, which have not been sufficiently specified or justified, matters have been misused and this is done even more in this mandate. And this, all of this knowledge, all of this awareness, has led to the fact that in LDS we have drawn up such a law that we wanted to achieve that this present ambition of every policy, in this case the current policy, stops us from realizing that we need to think about the craftsmen, that in fact in a relatively short time we will bring this country, these inhabitants, into a position that life will deteriorate, that the pension treasury will not be able to provide the means to provide additional resources by selling assets - uncontrolled and in the way that it does, there will be many times and that the budget will not be able to finance all the obligations that will await it. For this reason, we have proposed in the LDS a law on the management of assets obtained from the sale of state shares, as it is necessary to ensure the best management for this property. The changed financial market situation has shown well that the way the state manages through the Treasury Treasury is no longer appropriate. Firstly, due to the direct impact on the functioning of firms that are detrimental to the development of the economy, secondly due to inadequate asset management. The problems with asset management were well demonstrated in the case of the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, as the country itself was not able to provide sufficient funds for recapitalisation. And here she sought the help of the Triglav Insurance Company. The way of managing state property is also wrong, because most investments are linked to the Slovenian capital market or to the Ljubljana Stock Exchange. We all know the situation on this market, when the value of the assets, especially in the last period, has erupted from day to day, as well as 8% a day. However, the country could not avoid this risk, as all investments were linked to the domestic capital market. For this reason, we believe that it is more appropriate to manage state property professionally, which allows for the global dispersion of managed assets. The global financial crisis has also somehow reduced the value of investments focused on global markets. However, there is a possibility in Banka Slovenije of a different way of nobility of property. Among them, perhaps we should mention trade in currencies. The law also allows the fund manager to manage the assets obtained from the sale of state shares, taking into account the analyses, opinions and guidelines of those who know best internationally recognised financial institutions. In doing so - internationally recognised financial institutions - we did not intend to discriminate against our institutions, but to say that some of our financial institutions also need to establish themselves, be successful on the world market, in the global environment, and therefore can be equivalent to competitors who may, if the law is adopted, advise and direct Banka Slovenije's investment behaviour. In our view, the proposed law should also be acceptable to those parties and parliamentary groups that support the transparent withdrawal of the country from the economy and the policy constraints on the availability of assets from the sale or management of state assets. Those who, because of their political "pedigree" against the adoption of the law, will make it clear to the electorate that you want to have state property, which is the practice, especially in recent times, used for their own political interests. Similar solutions as proposed in the law are available in many parts of the world, since countries such as Norway or some poorer countries, which have oil or natural wealth, such as Chile, use such forms of noblery or economical treatment of property. In the case of European comparison, we specifically used an Irish case which has a similar fund in the form of a national pension reserve fund. The aim of such a fund is to raise funds that will partially finance the costs of the Treasury to ensure social well-being and for the public sector's pension costs only from 2025 onward, when they are expected to raise their pension liabilities significantly by continuing the ageing of the population. Therefore, why would Slovenia not have and would not have thought about such a fund, especially aware that with us the sustainability of the pension fund and this situation envisaged by Chile in 2025 is foreseen for a faster period with us, that is, between 2015 and 2020. We therefore propose that, for such reasons, fifteen years cannot be drawn from the Fund. Ireland, as mentioned, has made a decision not to do so or to draw on it for twenty-five years. And here we are looking for a parallel, we are not looking for other reasons for not being able to take a step to freeze, under the terms of, of course, such property to politics. We have much bigger problems than Ireland. With demographic changes, however, we do not prepare ourselves for the ageing of the population. Slovenia could also use other methods, perhaps it could conclude that 1% of gross national product per year will be allocated to such a fund, we believe that such proposals are even more condemned to non-acceptance, and therefore we have decided that, according to our opinion, an acceptable proposal, which I believe, with at least the comments that we are also taking into account today or listening to in this debate, could be modified. Or, as has been said, reshape Kad, which is actually some kind of SOVEREIGN WEALTM FUND" and was also established for such purposes but was "snatched". Well, there's no doubt about that. Therefore, if we were able to take a step in order to be given such a position and role, we would not, in fact, be overly "opposed" or considered to join. The International Monetary Fund's research shows that such sovereign financial funds are very important in international elementary and financial systems. These are state-owned investment funds that are used for different ways of macroeconomic policies or purposes. They are the stabilisation funds whose primary purpose is to isolate the budget and the economy due to the fluctuation of prices of good, usually is oil, savings funds for future generations, development funds that enable the financing of social economic projects or the promotion of economic policy to raise potential economic growth and reserve pension funds that ensure the coverage of pension obligations where other resources are not sufficient. All such funds are passive and are long-term investors who have no influence on the company's policy or without the use of active voting rights, that is also our purpose. According to the International Monetary Fund, there is no evidence that such funds would use narrow political interests. This is also what we want to achieve in the LDS to transfer the decision to the Bank of Slovenia, which, according to our opinion, is a guarantee that there will be no political impact that would reduce the return on investment or harm the economy. Such a form of the fund can also be a useful fiscal tool because the fund can accelerate fiscal stabilisation or be used for long-term fiscal purposes. It can be used, for example, to prepare for population ageing, for additional future costs for health care, for pensions or for financing infrastructure projects. About the government's opinion. In LDS, we expected the government to oppose him. In fact, it prevents policy from affecting the economy. In our opinion, the Government also opposes this law because it would admit that it does not have the best or perhaps does not want to manage the property best from the sale of state shares. Now the purchase from the sale of the capital investments of the country is used to repay the debts in the State Property Financing Account. Of course, the proposed provision makes sense that assets from the sale of assets do not go into the current consumption of the state budget. That is why, of course, this law in the LDS supports a solution that prevents the use of funds for current use. However, the law is not proposed for this reason. We have provided the law with a solution that five years after the establishment of the fund's assets do not have this property. In its opinion on the proposal of the law, the government sees no need to set up funds, since we are supposed to have a Capital Society of the pension and disability system in order to create additional funds for pension and disability insurance. As has already been said before, and it itself attaches itself to the fact that the Capital Society has indeed been established for this purpose. Unfortunately, we see in practice that the Capital Society, with its leadership, does not manage these processes with its supervisory authorities, which are "directed" by policy, and poorly manages the assets entrusted to it. In this case, Mercator’s example is welcome, where instead of making a profit for the sale of pensioners or taxpayers, those who have succeeded in selling Mercator have earned hundreds of millions of euros. So, this is proof that the fund does not perform the task and function it was intended for and should perform. In the LDS, we believe that the Government does not want to limit its political impact on the economy. However, we are no longer interested in this government, we are interested in future governments, future policies and every policy we want to prevent it from affecting that part of the treatment of property belonging to state property. The government opposes the management of Banka Slovenije. In LDS, we cited the case of Norway, where the fund is managed by the Norwegian Bank for Investment Management, which is part of the Norwegian Central Bank. Their bank manages a state-owned global pension fund, one of the largest European funds and contains, in particular, the funds raised by the sale of oil, i.e. the Bank of Norway is doing this. Indeed, the Government, in its explanation, is also attached to this by Mr Swickl, stating that Banka Slovenije does not have the authority for such tasks. We think he has them. We have read the law in its entirety, and we believe that in Article 12, the provision which states that the bank also manages another asset that is entrusted to it and in this way, as we propose in its law, is that the National Assembly trusts Banka Slovenije in the assets we are talking about today. As a result, we believe that the Bank of Slovenia Act provides a basis for the management or management of this asset. The Government considers that the Commission, which would collect financial institutions which would therefore, on the basis of an international call for proposals, prepare or participate in the management of these funds. We believe that the Court of Auditors, as a body of the highest audit authority, is not justified, it is not a matter of direct operational influence and conduct and of allowing direct influence, i.e. by the Court of Auditors, but indirectly, as experts in the selection of those who would advise and assist Banka Slovenije in deciding on the investments of this fund. For all that has been said, i.e. also by the Members before me and because of the arguments that have been made on my part, we invite the Members of the National Assembly to support the law at first reading. We believe that, with certain corrections, some have already been said today, the law to be corrected until the second reading, may also find the right form to no longer raise doubts as to the importance and role of a capital company, a share company, a capital company and therefore that these possible inconsistencies or concerns arise with regard to the Public Finance Act or the law on the implementation of the budget in this way. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] For this reason, I appeal for support in the first reading of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u335	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u336	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will not support the proposed law on state property management obtained from the sale of state shares. In the New Slovenia Group we advocate an accelerated, transparent and supervised withdrawal of the country from the economy and for as limited as possible State interventions into individual economic problems. The State must withdraw as far as possible as the owner of major economic and financial companies, but in a way that will ensure the long-term, efficient and transparent follow-up of companies. Privatisation of enterprises is also a great opportunity for successful integration with foreign business partners and for the involvement of Slovenian companies in wider economic flows and thus for the acquisition of new markets. Connecting to foreign partners is also an opportunity to modernise production processes as well as technological progress. In Slovenia it is often problematic in particular to whom and in what way state property is sold. In particular, it is very problematic to sell larger companies to "management". In such cases, we often wonder what the future fate of such companies will be. Does not the sale to domestic buyers who normally buy on credit mean less investment in development in the future and less wages for the worker? We are also concerned about the fate of such companies in Novi Slovenija, but the proposed law does not solve these problems, and from this point of view it is not acceptable for our parliamentary group. In Novi Slovenija we cannot agree with the criticism of the proposed bill that the current money management solutions from the sale of state property have a significant disadvantage, since the purpose and consumption of such capital is very precisely laid down in the Public Finance Act. The purchase from the sale of the capital investments of the country is primarily used to repay debts in the financing account. Economics in important companies, where it is owned by a country, is successful, which, last but not least, confirms very good business results. Again, in New Slovenia, we stress that it would be even better if the country, as the majority owner of these companies, withdrew. It also raises the question whether it makes sense, on the one hand, to set up specific funds and, on the other hand, to be responsible for the resolution of urgent infrastructure investments. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that well-invested capital in infrastructure can best be paid through better economic results. If we want to follow development equally in the European Union, we will have to invest rapidly in infrastructure for at least the next decade due to delays in the past. In the New Slovenia Group, we also do not think it makes sense to set up a special fund that would be entrusted with asset management, since we already have a regulated company that was established to create additional funds for pension and disability insurance. Even to the proposed solution for the Bank of Slovenia to operate the Fund, we have reservations because we believe that it is not competent to manage this property. For all the reasons mentioned above, we will not support the bill in the parliamentary group. We agree with the intention that when we have a budget surplus, 1% of GDP is allocated to the Special Fund or to the Capital Society. The condition is budget surplus. It should be said, however, that Slovenia's budget has already contributed more than 3% of GDP to the pension fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u337	Thank you. Mr Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u338	Mr President, Honourable Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. We have before us a proposal for a law prepared by the Members of the LDS Group. The bill was probably created in response to the implementation of the withdrawal of the Slovenian state from the economy, which has been successfully implemented in this mandate and has already begun in the previous mandates in a loving manner. However, not with such determination, but certainly not with the strategy currently being implemented. Proposalers say that the Republic of Slovenia, through the sale of its shares in companies, acquires large financial resources that represent specific national public goods and that the current legal regime does not provide a sufficient framework for economic and development-oriented management, since these funds are not managed in a sufficiently professional and economic manner. With such an explanation, I would ask who has led the economic policy of the country in recent years and who has mainly drawn up legislation that is still in force today in most cases. The question doesn't need an answer. Not at all in the light of the fact that I had already said at the outset that the withdrawal of the country from the economy did not begin in this mandate. The applicant probably also overlooked the fact that the withdrawal of the country from the economy is based largely on withdrawal from state and parastatal funds, from the economy and that the Republic of Slovenia owns a largely small share of the total funds it is talking about in this case. The operation and purpose of these funds, however, is regulated by sectoral legislation, which in our view ensures economic, professional and development-oriented management of the funds thus obtained. It also seems unacceptable to us that because the opposition does not trust the Government and its purposes by its very nature, the powers regulated by the regional laws are transferred to some unobstructed, called, but therefore rude institutions. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always advocated the view that domestic silver should not be sold out and that the country in some key economic sectors must, in particular, maintain a majority or control share in banks, insurance companies and public infrastructure managers. With some of the moves we are dissatisfied and have also publicly opposed them, but for a great deal of solutions we can praise the fact that the shares of companies remain state-owned precisely because of the insistence of our party, the Slovenian People's Party. We will not support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party, because we believe that sectoral legislation ensures economic, professional and development-oriented management by means acquired by the State or its funds once it has been decided to sell something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u339	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u340	If a person wanted to delay, he would say a special greeting to each member present, but nothing would help, he would have finished immediately. Well, I will also spend very little time, simply to say that the DeSUS Group will not support the bill's proposal, that it understands its intention, but also understands the weaknesses inherent in this law and decides that it will act at some other time in a substantially different way. The law is written from mistrust, from distrust of politics, from distrust of the country, to current legislation, to parastatal institutions that we like to list etc., etc. I would say philosophically that from the point of view of the proposalr, he was written out of distrust of others. The timing of this criticism, which we respect and which is justified, is such that we have to extend it throughout the transition period, in this time of transition, the most powerful and the most likely was the proposer who came with this proposal with a great deal of delay. The essence that we support is the substance of the proposal of the proposer: how to dispel the influence of policy and individual parties from having the means of having the property, because everything else that is written about how to act economically, how to maximize the yields, etc., is in fact the axioms of the economy and does not have to be specifically recorded in any law. The weaknesses we see in the preparation of this law are the weaknesses that speak of the fact that the applicant has not tried to prepare any specific analysis, has not prepared empirical data, has not produced any projections of what will happen to his judgment in the future. That, in short, this law is quite flawed, we consider it, and that is why we do not support it. However, we will prepare different solutions for the Desus Group. Solutions that will be more precise to discuss that this property should be intended for socially deprived, retired persons, and that it should be transferred to the sovereign possession of the ZPIZ, the Institute of Pensions and Disability Insurance. In this way, the influence of the State will indeed be removed, for this bill, which speaks of the final decision taken by the State Assembly in this area within fifteen years, of course retains full control over this property in the hands of the policy. Therefore, the DeSUS Group, which we hope will be significantly stronger, significantly more influential in the next term, will draw up a different proposal for the disposal of state assets, for the benefit of pensioners and socially deprived persons.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u341	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u342	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, representatives of the government! In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the essential issue to which the proposal for a law on the management of assets obtained from the sale of State shares is, in fact, what is the State selling, and why is the State selling? This is said to be the basic position of the Slovenian National Party not to sell parade horses, quality companies, excellent properties. God forbid we sell them. But who sells a tomato horse? What country in Europe or in this world is so stupid that it sells what brings gold eggs? We do not understand the intention of the proposer of this law, nor do we understand the proposal of the law. But unfortunately, the answer to the question is what to solve with it, specifically with the proposed law on sales control and capital flow - nothing. In this marriage, the story begins with the moment the country sells. This is the first major and huge mistake for the state to even sell. And then we don't save anything. Money is supposed to go under this law to Banka Slovenije, which is where I'm supposed to be, I'm going to use the term - deposited for 15 years and that's it. But it's not working. Nor do I know why the hell we, those in the congregation, know - there is no control and, as in the local community, we cannot use the funds obtained from the sale unintentionally. We can't. We have control, the assets from the sale must be used on purpose. If we sold one large apartment 80 square meters, we are obliged to buy two smaller ones of 40, but we can't buy a car. Where's this surveillance? The sale must be purposeful and harmonised, including the amount obtained from the sale, must be of the same value on purpose or must be of value. Or sell the property and put the money in the depot. Anyway, it's a completely counter-market activity. Inflation is an indicator of the decline in the value of money, and we are all witnessing that real estates and their values are growing. So another lesson we stand behind and insist on in the Slovenian National Party - not selling capital assets. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the asset manager cannot be Banka Slovenije. If we look at the rebalancing, we see that the most revenue in the state budget is tax revenue, which means that revenue from all Slovenes and Slovenians and the state budget or the balance is what we, Members and Members of the National Assembly, and we are the first and only ones to care for the purpose of spending money, to decide whether to sell or not. We're the one who's gonna tell us where and how with the money that was made in this country by sale. And of course the government. On the other hand, it is strange that we all act ignorantly together, but when, at least I remember, we often make two mandate periods with guarantees, guarantees for many loans. The credits that this country has rented are, according to economic experts and neutrals, at least some of the policy concerns, of course, enormous. Loans have grown enormously. And loans, of course, have to be paid and these loans are paid from the sale of assets under the Public Finance Act. But it's a miracle that none of you are asking to take home a loan to build a house, and then we should sell the house and the car with it to get that loan back. But obviously, the legislation allows that. This is also true, and I am agreeing that money from sale, if it already comes to it, although, once again, we are against any sale of all real estates and all values that are good and beneficial to this country, why not with it, even if we could legally charge directly, among other things, I am speaking, the pension fund. Colleagues and colleagues! I would like to remind you or send you to read the book Branet Holiday, which recently came out, its address is Death Dealers. Read it for yourself. In it, you will see that this country, which I do not object to clear, will empty the pension register for buying weapons and thereby defending and gaining its independence. It's all good and it's all good. I'm sure all Slovenians are, or all Slovenians would say yes, that's right. But you know what's wrong. After all these years, this money is nowhere to be found. He's not here. He was taken from the pension register, but it wasn't given back, despite a lot of gun sales ahead. The data is documented in this book, read it. Of course, if we start drilling and searching, as one of our colleagues said: Mother of Sin. A few years ago and return that money that was taken for the purchase of weapons back to the pension box. And that's the way to go. In the Slovenian National Party we absolutely disagree that this money would be hidden for 15 years, we say. His value would have fallen. In particular, we are opposed to the fact that analyses and projections on the possibility of availability would be carried out by a commission from abroad, some foreign recognised "managers" who would hire and pay me to analyse and design the use of this money. God forbid! Only the National Assembly and the Government have this right. The National Assembly because we were elected from the people, the people trusted us and we have the money that is theirs, not the managers from Italy, America, I don't know where to put that money that was deposited at a bank after 15 years. This, I hope, no one wants it, no one. However, I am absolutely in favour of the fact that the availability of this money is permissible when this facility is allowed by the National Assembly and by a two-thirds majority, which is a very important content of this proposal. This bill also states that the Bank of Slovenia must regularly inform the National Assembly and the Government about the management of the fund, which is contrary to what was said earlier, where I am referring to the fact that 15 years from the establishment of the Fund is not allowed to have this money, which means that it should then inform us if it is not allowed to have it. I would inform the National Assembly every year that that money is still there. That's all he can do. The intent of marriage is clear and has been told many times today. Concern is expressed about the uncontrolled flow of money from the sale of state property. And this problem needs to be solved. We have to save him, we have to be careful, so there are some elements in this law that should be named differently and should be well processed. In the Slovenian National Party, I say it first of all, because we don't want to and we wouldn't allow the sale. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] State property, that's our essence, our motto, we're not going to support it, and we're not going to oppose it. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u343	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Milan Friday, please, procedural question. Excuse me. Tell me what you want, and I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u344	It's not procedural, but I'm calling in, and I'm reporting as a proponent, and I have a right.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u345	Absolutely, you have the right, you just said it so I didn't understand. You've got a debate. Here you go. It's your turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u346	Thank you very much, Vice President. I have already said in my presentation that I am pleased that, in some way, in a very inappropriate time, but also with a very handicapped composition, a debate has opened up on the law, which, if not, has triggered some reflection on the fact that matters in the field of public property management are not good. I hope that in most political parties it has also triggered a reflection on the need to ensure a better future, i.e. those who will either enjoy a pension and therefore expect, of course, an appropriate reconciliation of the pension or our children and grandchildren, i.e. some conditions for life, that we need to think about the future in this country. Therefore, it is not the task of Members to speak and, in fact, just to think about how we will today ensure the best possible conditions for or for sale or sales, that is to say, dealing with these funds. But that sooner or later it will be necessary to be aware that it is our job to look ahead. And all the analyses, as has already been said, and these thoughts have shown that some have this consciousness. It is still surprising that we imagine that as the National Assembly, we are an operational body that can take care of sales or sales effects. It has never been and will never be possible for the National Assembly to participate in any sale, so that for each sale it knows what the real and better conditions are and so that the State authority will take on a role that it cannot objectively play. For this reason, we have proposed that a part of this property should therefore begin to be slowly formed in a special fund, and that in this context they are concerned in our name for this period, which we are proposing to people who are much more competent and who are not politically contaminated and cannot be affected. Whether they are now domestic experts or foreign experts, this must be done by the best experts. If our experts actually get references to becoming internationally recognised, there is no reservation that they would not be domestic experts or domestic institutions. So maybe there's a bit of a dilemma about whether the bank is right, or whether the capital fund might be transformed into such a final form or the true form, "the sovereign of the fund". Or that our debate has undeniably shown that something needs to be done about this. In the Liberal Democracy, we will try from what we have heard today, to sum up the possibilities or those real possible changes to this law to reach these goals, and we will be happy if you give us this opportunity by voting in favour or in support of this law. As a proposaler, I will no longer take the floor, but I wanted to end up like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr. Ferry Horvat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u348	Thank you for your word, chairman. I will be very brief, because I would not like to repeat what has already been said, and I would like to allow the committee to begin the meeting as soon as possible. All I'd say is that I don't doubt the good purpose of the proposalr. The type of comments was put on solutions. I think it will be necessary to discuss solutions in the future. I very much agree with what my colleague Starman said is open and every day there is evidence of a number of issues in the management of state property at all, especially with financial assets. And I think there's two things that matter. First, to ensure effective responsible, transparent management of state property, including by increasing the role of the National Assembly. And secondly, that we need some protectors or some restriction for all government, not only for this government, but also for those who will be in the future, because we see that in the past and even today many times happens that instead of, as the Secretary of State said in the introduction, the Government actually manages state property very responsibly, that you do not want to become or try to act as if it is the owner of state property, which is not good. But this is a temptation and a threat to all governments, and it is therefore necessary to look even more closely at good practices abroad, to lead a debate and to achieve better solutions in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Horvath has the word - no, you're giving up. Then Mr. Martin Mikolič, Mr. Martin Mikolič, would you like a word? - No, you're giving up. Then Mr. Milan Friday - not at all. Mag. Milan Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u350	Given that we have been working for a very long time and that Members of the ruling coalition still have a difficult task - to solve the impossible in this evening, I would like to conclude very briefly, of course, by agreeing with Mr Petko, as a proposaler - the law is to be completed, but the law is in particular a reflection of the lack of confidence in what the Government has done in this mandate. And even though the government will convene, through members of the coalition, so many extraordinary meetings on corruption, clientism and theft, you cannot help but make too many wrong decisions in managing financial assets in this mandate. Therefore, it is only right to limit politics. The law on the management of financial assets owned by the Republic of Slovenia is a way of limiting policy. Methods, techniques are known in the world, called sovereign funds "SOVEREIGN FUND", designed to create a reserve and reserve for times when it will not be possible to cover current expenditure when it is not possible, especially in the pension, perhaps even in the health treasury, to cover the deficits. Therefore, in the first reading of this law, it is appropriate to give support, in the second reading, and in the third reading to complete the law as an upgrade to the Law on Public Finance, all the other is a misunderstanding of the intention of the proposers and, above all, points by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to one major misapprehension and, above all, a misunderstanding of the laws adopted in this National Assembly. There's a Public Finance Act with a comment. It would be good if the government ever read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u351	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow, Thursday, 22 May, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 39th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m. Mr. Jazbec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Members and Members who are members of the Committee on Local Self-Government shall be informed that the meeting of the Committee will begin in 10 minutes, i.e. at half ten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u353	Where?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u354	In the big hall on Tomsich's street.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-05-21-SDZ4-Redna-39.ana.u355	Thank you very much.
