ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 40th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Dr Pavel Gantar, Mr Anton Kokalj, Martin Mikolič from 3 p.m. on, Marko Pavliha, Alojz Sok from 5 p.m. on, mag. Franc Žnidaršič, Samo Bevk up to 1300 hours and Mrs Maria Pozsonec. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Shircel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! The proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Investment Funds and Management Companies constitutes a less difficult amendment to the law. Thus, the Government proposes an amendment to Article 127, which represents a major administrative burden for the Securities Market Agency. The Agency is obliged under this Article to reissue licences which have already been issued within one year of the introduction of the law, i.e. from 25.10.2008. According to the Authority’s assessment, these persons to be authorised are approximately 3,000. The issue of such a permit to each of these persons would entail considerable staffing and administrative burden for the Agency and additional costs and time spent for beneficiaries or applicants. The proposal to amend the law also unequivocally establishes which test of the expertise needed to carry out a particular type of business of a broker must be successfully carried out to ensure that it has the appropriate knowledge to market investment funds and sell units or shares of investment funds. The marketing of investment funds and the sale of units or shares of investment funds from the providers of these services requires knowledge of the content of the investment fund's financial product and of transactions related to the execution of the marketing and sale itself. According to the content, transactions carried out by these persons are similar to those carried out by customers in connection with the business of investment advice to be carried out by brokers. In view of the urgency of the changes, the Government, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, proposes the adoption of legislation by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u3	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the President, Mr Bojan Starman, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! At its 38th urgent meeting of 12.6., the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Investment Funds and Companies for the Management of SISU-1C, following an urgent procedure. The College of the National Assembly concluded at its 137th meeting, on 28.5., that the draft law should be considered on an urgent basis. We have received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, and a proposal for an amendment to the Committee has been prepared in the framework of the working material. Otherwise, qualified investors have not tabled amendments to the law submitted. The amendments proposed relate only to Article 127 of the ZISDU-1B and represent a reduction in the administrative burden of the Securities Market Agency, which is bound to reissue within one year of the introduction of the ZISDU-1D, already issued pursuant to Article 225b, first paragraph. The new proposal would save applicants or licensees the costs and time required under Article 127, which is linked to obtaining authorisations to market investment funds and selling investment coupons or investment fund shares to the Agency. In its additional opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service endorsed or agreed with the proposal, which was drafted as a proposal for an amendment to the Committee and which was later adopted. Subsequently, the Committee voted on both articles together, on the basis of Article 133 of the Act, the amended proposal did not propose to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u5	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice greeting to the representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. It represents only a less difficult change to remove the requirement that persons who already had a permit to market investment funds and the sale of investment fund shares be re-examined from the Securities Market Agency by 25 October this year. The investment funds were introduced in our country by the Property Change Act in November 1992. The Investment Funds and Performance Companies Act, which entered into force in January 1994, sought to encourage the development of the capital market in Slovenia. Already in the current law we adopted in the National Assembly last September, we have introduced some changes that have equated the business opportunities of domestic companies with the ability of foreign investment fund and management service providers. We have also aligned the law with the directives of the European Parliament. In the New Slovenia Group, we are committed to simplifying and modernising the procedures that relieve the bodies of action. Amendment 127 of the draft law will, for our legal order, reduce the administrative burden and eliminate the additional unnecessary burdens of the Securities Market Agency. In addition, it will save the beneficiaries the cost and time to obtain authorisations for the marketing of investment funds and the sale of investment vouchers or investment fund shares. In the New Slovenia Group, we are in favour of any change that simplifies procedures or reduces administration, so we will also support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u7	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! With the previous amendment of the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act, the Government, as a proposaler and as a legislator, adopted a provision which proved to be an unnecessary additional administrative burden for the Securities Market Authority after the entry into force or implementation of the amendments to the Act. The implementation of this provision would mean that the Agency should reissue approximately 3,000 licences to persons who have obtained them since the previous law. In order to avoid this unnecessary staffing and administrative burden of the Agency, we will support this bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u9	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Government representatives! In the Slovenian National Party, first of all, we would like to say that the fact that this law must be adopted by emergency procedure due to the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State is little theatrical. You could say that, well, since there are minor changes, it could be reduced, but it does not, of course, hold that it has irreparable consequences. After all, the substance of this proposal for a law amending the law is perfectly clear. It is for persons who have been authorised by the Agency to serve as a member of the board of companies, for persons who have successfully carried out the performance test and for persons who have obtained a certificate of professional knowledge test before the entry into force of the original law. That's when the Agency should give the right permission. These are 3,000, and it is clear that this is a huge staffing and administrative burden that the Agency would like to resolve, which is, of course, a smart one. In doing so, I should say that the original law probably had a slightly wrong record because it is illogical that someone who does all these exams must then regain permission to do something. The objective is fully clear and we agree with it in the Slovenian National Party - we will reduce the Agency's staffing, cost and time burdens. The principle of simplifying procedures and eliminating unnecessary administrative burdens is applied. I would point out, however, that it is very important that the amendment prepared by the mother's working body be taken into account in Article 1. It is clear that it is a matter of haste and superficiality, since Article 1 of the amendment has led to the omission of persons who have successfully completed the examination of the expertise needed to carry out the business of a member of the management company. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support this law and, of course, we will necessarily support the amendment, which will also complement this Article 1 of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr Srečko Hvauc will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already committed ourselves to the Coalition Treaty to strive to improve the quality of existing and new legislation, in particular in terms of removing unnecessary administrative barriers. In this direction, we have acted throughout the mandate and supported a series of laws that have simplified business procedures, reduced procedures that have led to a reduction in unnecessary administration. We will therefore also support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on changes in investment funds and management companies. Although it is only a matter of amending one article, we believe that this article is important because it removes unnecessary administrative work, re-authorising the marketing of investment funds and the sale of investment vouchers or investment fund shares. With this change, we will burden the Securities Markets Agency, and all of those around 3,000 participants in this market who already have such a permit and would only have it if this proposal does not have to be adopted, once again. We therefore think that this is a useful step towards reducing these administrative procedures and we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u13	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the adjournment of the 29th item of the agenda or at the latest at 23.10. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IT'S FOR A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A Tax ON REVENUE FROM THE REVENUE OF THE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS MADE, AN EMERGENCY PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation. Mr. Shircel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The government is proposing a special law to tax profits from the removal of derivatives. These profits have been largely due to the fact that this form of business has not been developed in the past, and so far they have not been taxed under the current Income Act. In a report by Banka Slovenije in August 2007, it is reported that such investments or transactions were around EUR 37 million in Slovenia and that this represents 4% of all direct investments abroad and this proportion has increased significantly, given the year 2006 when it was 2.5% and 2005 when it was even lower. With such a way of taxing, those profits that, for the first time, affect the price of shares on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange have an impact on the so-called volatility or volatility of the stock price and also have a multiple effect from this title. In fact, the financial instruments carried out affect the return of other investors to the Ljubljana Stock Exchange. What exactly is being proposed? It is proposed that taxable natural persons, residents of Slovenia, legal persons are taxed on the basis of the corporate tax law, capital gains are taxed, meaning that the tax base is equal to or very similar to that tax base already taxed under the Income Act. Tax rates are proposed, i.e. tax rates follow the rates set out in the Income Act, i.e. between the second and fifth years, these profits are taxed at a tax rate of 20% and then fall to a tax rate of 5 percentage points every five years. At a 40% rate, profits are taxed on the basis of the sale of derivative financial instruments in the first year of operation mainly due to the so-called multiplier effect on market prices of securities. The tax return is the same as for other capital gains, which means that the taxable person must submit to the tax administration a forecast for the calculation of capital gains and, on the basis of this forecast, the tax administration issues a decision allowing or imposing on the taxable person the payment of the tax. The law itself also allows for the calculation of profits and losses under this law, which means that the calculation of profits and losses is possible solely on the basis of profits from derivatives of financial instruments. With such a tax, the Government is primarily seeking to equalise taxation and to positively influence securities on the stock exchange, and thus to ensure greater stability of business, especially for those investors who do not have any specific information, so as to know when the supply of certain securities on the stock exchange will increase or sometimes decrease and could thus receive capital gains. Dear Members and honourable Members, the Government proposes that you adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u15	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the President, Mr Starman, to present the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u16	Have a nice hello to you all again! At its 38th meeting, on 12.6.2008, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy also considered the proposal for a law on profit tax from the removal of derivative financial instruments as a matter of urgency. The College of the National Assembly adopted a decision on 6.6.2008 to consider the proposal for a law in accordance with an urgent procedure. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which commented on Articles 1, 4, 8, 10, 12, 14, 15, 16, 24 and 27 of the Act. Most of the comments are taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. The comments which were not taken into account were raised by the representative of the service in the context of the introductory presentation of the opinion and the discussion on the individual articles of the bill. We have also received the opinion of the Council of State of 12.6.2008, which supports the proposal of the law, but also points out that it understands it as a transitional solution. The Committee was also informed of the following additional material: the amendment proposals of the Association of Securities Exchange Members of 11.6.2008 relate in particular to the deletion of Article 14 of the proposed law, the written position of the Lip Group of the Member States of 12.6.2008. The amendments submitted by the Zares Group on 10.6.2008 to Article 14, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, 11.6.2008, Member Sašo Peče, 11.6.2008, also to Article 14, as well as to the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of the Pensioners, were tabled under the proposed law, on 12.6.2008, to Articles 1, 3, 4, 8, 14, 15, 16, 18 and 27. The representative of the Government stressed that taxation of certain profits from derivatives that had not been taxed so far is a matter of taxation of natural persons. When traded on the market, speculative purposes in particular cause fluctuations in courses, and this is a moral gamble for well-educated investors who thus acquire and lose uneducated applicants. In the context of the debate, the most attention, as I have already mentioned, was devoted to Article 14. All these propose that this Article be deleted, that this tax, which arises after the removal or sale of these financial instruments, is increased within one year by double taxation, once more than normal, they do not agree. And then the National Assembly decided to make the amendments. He accepted the amendments of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners. However, as I have already said, he did not accept the amendments of the Zares Group of Members, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia and the Member of Saš Pečet. All refer to the deletion of Article 14, which provides for this exceptional tax on all within one year’s earnings. The Committee also voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. On the basis of Article 133 of the Act, he prepared a supplementary proposal proposing that it be confirmed by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u17	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Milan Petek will present the views of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u18	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Shircelj! The proposed law is another type of unthinkable solution proposed by the Government to the National Assembly during the pre-election period under the so-called fight against the tycoons with which the Government wants to restore credibility. In LDS, we don't believe in the honesty and well-intention of such moves. We believe in ignorance. The proposed solutions to the law tax profits achieved by natural persons by the removal of derivatives. The LDS supports the purpose of taxing derivatives on the condition that taxation is equivalent to capital gains. However, since the government has stipulated in the law that profits are taxed at a 40% tax rate for removal one year ago, this law is unacceptable for LDS. Such taxation of derivatives is almost 2 times higher than the normal taxation of capital investments. The Government has also caused inequality in the treatment of legal and natural persons, which can even be constitutionally disputed. Legal persons are taxed for derivatives under the Law on corporate income tax at 22% tax rate in 2008, while natural persons for the same investments will be taxed at 40% tax rate. Such a marriage is, according to our judgment, driven by common sense. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has already assessed that the Government does not have sufficient knowledge of the substance of the proposed law and has therefore proposed to consider certain provisions, particularly the level of the tax rate. We are confident in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and are aware that the Government has prepared this law as a pre-election law. She has not done any serious simulations, she has not consulted experts or experts in this field, cancelled or completely ignored the demands of stock exchanges and Slovenian securities exchanges, and does not really know how the law will affect the capital market, the budget and investors at all. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are used to the tricks of the Government, which always carries the blame on others. According to the government, only speculators are to blame for the collapse of stock on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange. We advise the government to take a closer look in the mirror, when looking for the culprits for the stock drop, at the unstable macroeconomic situation caused by its actions or by the failure of the Government, i.e. the capital market in Slovenia. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we understand that the Government does not fight speculators with this law, as we understand it. If I were serious about fighting speculators, I wouldn't have introduced a single tax rate on capital gains. With the introduction of a single tax rate as modern Robin Hood, the government has more taken away the poor and more burdened the richest. Is that really how he imagines the battle against speculators? It is obvious that in the Government they do not know how to trade derivatives because they will tax all derivatives and all investors equally, whether they are speculators or risk-reducing persons. For example, Austria taxes only certain financial instruments because they know the business of derivatives well enough to know that most of these instruments are used to cover risks. For us, however, we will tax all instruments, including currency instruments, used for example by natural persons in the form of currency exchange, which reduce the risk of exposure to credit fluctuations or principals and interest on loans they have leased in foreign currency, for example, in Slovenia, most in Swiss francs. Since the law will introduce negative discrimination against the rate of profit tax regime from the removal of derivatives and from the remaining financial instruments and from the unequal treatment of natural persons and the consequences on the capital market, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u19	Thank you. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representative of the Government, Members and Members, guests on the balcony, nice greeting! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the proposal for a tax on profits from the removal of derivative financial instruments, despite all the criticism that can be seen in the media and which has stirred up the financial public well. However, in the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that this is a positive law because we want to ensure greater stability of the financial market by introducing the profit tax created by trading in derivatives. This tax will reduce the possibility of speculative transactions that we have witnessed in recent years. It will tax speculative investors and speculative profits created by instruments, including certificates that have the greatest impact on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange course and result in large fluctuations, thus forging large untaxed profits to speculators. This bill will therefore result in speculative transactions that allow a handful of well-informed investors to profit in a short period of time. According to the available data, since August, Slovenian citizens' investments in certificates have increased significantly. In this way, well-educated investors gain and the less educated lose, which, in our view, is unfair. This is why the basic objective of the proposed law is to ensure greater tax equality between the different types of financial investments of natural persons, based on the principle that comparable incomes should be taxed approximately the same. The problem that has arisen in the public and which is a major stumbling block for all stock exchanges is mainly 40% of the profit tax achieved by the removal of the derivative before the expiry of one year of ownership or from the conclusion of the business. We can stress that the significant difference in taxation in the case of the sale of a financial instrument is only in the first year and are still taxed at a 20% rate. In the event that the law is passed, in the New Slovenia Group we believe that the liquidity of Slovenian stock exchanges will be reduced, as a large part of transport is created by the issuers of certificates. However, justice and greater stability will be ensured in the Slovenian market, which we believe is of great importance for the fair functioning and sustainable development of the Slovenian financial market. By introducing a new profit tax when the derivatives are recovered, investors will be deterred from further speculation, reduce fluctuations on the markets and ensure greater tax equality. For all these reasons, we will support the draft law in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Once again a nice greeting to all present, below and above! Under the provisions of the Income Act, among other things, profits from capital, including profits obtained through the seizure of property, securities and shares in companies and investment vouchers, are taxed. Under the same law, income or tax is expressly exempt from the removal of derivatives. According to the applicant, this is due to the administrative difficulty of identifying the tax base and the development of the market for these financial instruments at the time of adoption of the Income Act when these instruments were used more by economic operators than by natural persons. In the Bank of Slovenia report, however, it was observed that Slovenian natural persons have recently significantly increased investment in derivatives, largely due to the non-taxation of capital gains since the absorption of these derivatives. For reasons of fairness, it is necessary to ensure tax equality between the various financial investments of natural persons, which means that comparable incomes should be taxed approximately the same. Following the proposed solution, almost the same system of taxation of profits from the removal of derivatives as we have for the taxation of capital gains or profits achieved through the securitisation of securities is introduced. With one exception. In order to avoid speculation that has a much greater impact on derivative transactions than on ordinary securities transactions, we will also support the proposed 40% rate of taxation in the event of the removal of instruments before one year of purchase. In the SLS Group, we will support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u23	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u24	Thank you again for your word, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will begin again to write down by emergency procedure in order to avoid difficult remedial consequences, in this case it is not theatrical, but it is all worthy. With this content of the law, the government should have appeared long ago. Where was the government? Not just this one, the last one? As we can imagine, I will indeed make a comparison, which is a living one, and it is true that the single mother has exceeded the income tax for EUR 67 and has to pay her income. Ladies and gentlemen, who were a little bit "switter" and were playing games, but now we are in the derivatives, they've been untaxed to this day. Can you imagine? They bought certificates, options, future contracts, they were implementing financial instruments, they sold them, they earned huge money and they paid no taxes. How's that, gentlemen? Now I'm asking you because you're in government to remember this after four years? And how come the previous governments didn't remember that? That's a lot of criticism. If we're the same, we're all the same. If everyone pays taxes, these ladies and gentlemen should pay taxes earlier. So don't say it's irreparable damage. Yeah, it's going. Because it hasn't been done yet. And it's only right that this content appears. Another time. I don't know. Good. This is one solution - now I am turning to the Government - this is one solution to now propose a new tax. But tell me why someone was not so reasonable that this category, which is now defined in the new law, would incorporate this category of people, i.e. implementing financial instruments, natural persons, into existing tax legislation. And I'd be one, clean and transparent. Thus, we will now have a new law on income tax from the removal of derivatives, along with other laws that we have in the Income Act, and the Securities Market Act, etc. A bunch of laws where we could simply put this content into existing legislation. But what it is is. The assessment of the situation is described and one wonders if it took four or six years for some to find out what they wrote on one page. This must really be art. And it is right that, unfortunately, this special law will be passed, the law on implementing instruments. Taxes are paid worldwide and most countries live on taxes. We are not among those who have the lowest, nor among those who have the highest. And it is true that, even a lot of things have been said about whether or not the government, as well as the previous one, has been too hasty, has been oversimplifying certain things on the one hand, uniform tax rates on the one hand, capital revenues you know how taxed they are. On the other hand, we are now facing a problem. 40%. This problem is one indent in Article 14, but in the Slovenian National Party we believe that this is the right thing to do. So far, these speculators have not paid the tax, but now let them speculate, because in one year twice, they replace the certificates and these instruments and serve. They should pay to have them for more than one year, because we also know that the tax rate is then partially reduced every five years and dropped to 0% after 20 years. That is why in the Slovenian National Party we place the Government's criticism that we have given. Nevertheless, we are glad that at least something fair has finally been done for all citizens and citizens. All who serve and serve you especially without work, let them pay, for those who work also pay their whole lives.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u26	Say good-bye again! The aim of the bill is to ensure greater tax equality between the different types of financial investments of natural persons, all of which are based on the principle that comparable incomes should be taxed approximately the same. Historically, the derivatives and certain structured financial instruments, compared to other forms of investment, provided a tax-effective investment opportunity, which was abolished by this law. The proposed solutions tax the profits achieved by natural persons by the removal of derivatives under this law. However, any other revenue earned by natural persons from derivatives shall not be taxed under the provisions of this Act, but shall continue under the law governing income. The proposed solutions under this Act also tax profits achieved by natural persons by the removal of certain structured financial instruments, those which cannot be classified by virtue of characteristics as equity securities or debt securities whose return is paid in the form of vouchers or discounts. This ensures that profits from the removal of newer forms of financial instruments, irrespective of whether by content they are classified as debt or other securities or as derivatives, are taxed in a comparable manner. These are relatively new financial products that have been emerging in recent years. Proposed taxation at a proportional rate of 20%. The rate of tax shall be reduced every five years of ownership of the derivative or every five years after the conclusion of the transaction and shall be 15% after five years, 10% after ten years, 5% after fifteen years, and no tax shall be paid after twenty years. It is also proposed to calculate taxes and losses resulting from the uptake of financial derivatives at annual level. Notwithstanding the statement, regardless of what I have said, the profit tax achieved by the removal of exceptional financial instruments before the expiry of the 12 months of possession or 12 months after the conclusion of the transaction shall be calculated and paid at a rate of 40%. This is supposed to prevent certain speculative interventions with these instruments on the stock exchange and thus to prevent market unrest and the advantage of very well-educated investors from those who are less or less aware of such detailed developments on the stock exchange itself. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support the draft law before us. However, we will not support the amendment, because we actually believe that these speculative purposes need to be abolished by this extraordinary tax in Article 14, so we will not support the amendment itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u27	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Cvikl will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u28	Good day to you all! Special greetings to our guests and to citizens and citizens. I think there is something to be said first about the history of taxation of financial instruments and securities and of the two philosophies facing this taxation. Before entering the European Union and prior to taking over the euro, the previous government decided that the profits from securities should be taxed progressively. As with every euro over €1,300 net salary, individuals pay 41% of the rate, it was logical that we would also have progress in the investment of securities. This was part of the tax reform adopted in 2004, in line with the entry into the European Union, and in particular by providing sufficient resources in the state budget to finance education, public health, pensions and so on. There was a new government, the Republican government. Why Republican? Because she decided that she no longer progresses on capital gains, but that she is a cedular 20% tax. In doing so, they wrote a special law and released a whole segment of the derivatives. What is important is this: now that you all pay 41% of the country's 41% per euro per month of monthly income, everyone who plays on the stock market is paying only every fifth euro to the country. Whether that's good or not, it's a big question. It probably makes sense to make some progress, but it's not necessarily level-bound, but it can be said: up to 100,000 euros in profits are 20%, over 100,000 euros are 30% and so on. There are many options on this subject and the social democratic governments and social-democratic societies and welfare societies all have progressed. The government, which signed under the reform programmes to make it a blessing for all, has only made prosperity for the richest because in 2005 it introduced 20% of cedular taxation and has omitted the entire segment of the derivatives. She did not even know this because there was a particular problem at the time that the derivatives were not yet so much available on the Slovenian market, because Slovenia was not yet a member of the euro area and it was a little more difficult to do so. However, banks traded derivatives due to the risk insurance of depositors in banks. In order to ensure, to be simplified, the risk of exchange rate changes, oil prices and so on. Too long a story, a story for a third year of economics or a serious study of business administration. What does the Government propose now? The government is proposing in some story of anti-Taqun law a salto mortale. For part of the derivatives that actually serve to cover risks or those financial instruments that serve that now that no one trusts in the Ljubljana Stock Exchange because of the known events of Mercator sales, the strange privatisations of Telekom, the stories of NKBM, etc., the savers and investors from the Ljubljana Stock Exchange will introduce a high 40% tax in good times. This is the least illogical action. You need to decide whether you have progression or have Cedural Taxation. Therefore, it is logical that the association of stockholders would point out that 40% of the taxation of these derivatives would result in a collapse of the stock exchange. So don't do that, gentlemen. Decide for a different progression, tell us where the limit is, 5,000 euros, 100,000 euros, and raise there. Everything else is a simple stunt. There are no representatives of the Ministry of Finance here, because the Department of Finance's professional services don't know that, they don't want to defend it. Here is the representative of the cabinet of the Prime Minister, because it is also part of the anti-Tacuna story [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] We will support the amendment. If the amendment is adopted, it makes sense to discuss the modifications of this law, everything else is a mere professional stunt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u29	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I first open the debate on Article 14 and the amendment to this Article. In fact, there are three equally designed amendments, namely the amendments of the Zares Group, the LDS Group and the Lip Group of Members. I am opening an application for discussion on Article 14 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Squeakle, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u30	For a very short period of time, I would like to ask representatives of the Government why they are against this amendment. This amendment proposes the Association of Stock Exchange Members and tells us whether they are holding stock market forecasts that after such a problematic stock exchange situation, this matter will have an additional negative impact. Therefore, I ask you, especially the representative of the Government, to try professionally, not politically, because what I have listened to before is very political, to explain why you do this if you once made a progressive decision to be taxed. And in the middle, why did you let this go, or don't you know about changing Slovenian accounting standards and introducing these instruments? But I don't have a problem with that. It is better for the government to come with a proposal late than ever. But if it comes with a bad law, at least I want a professionally non-political argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u31	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Then I'll reapply. Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! It is true that there was progress in 2004. It is true that in 2003 there was progress, namely 50% progression, but it is not true that such capital gains or that capital gains were very, very taxed. The profit, the capital gains financial income in 2004 amounted to approximately 60 million tolars at the time. It's an annual income for three or four good cars. This was an annual income because it is not said here that in the then tax legislation there was an exemption for capital gains within three years. And no one or very few people actually paid capital gains. And a lot of people were taxed by 50%. That's a fact. Today, if we look at how much financial revenue we have from capital gains, we have a lot more. This is because taxpayers selling securities actually pay this tax. For 15 years, we can say that the capital gains, according to the financial resources received by the State from this title, have not been taxed. There's been a lot going on in these 15 years. And people have been waiting for them to actually get to three years and stories are known from newspapers. Many of them were, I wouldn't mention any of them today, many of them were when there were one-off big transactions and so on when people actually paid or sold securities and didn't pay any taxes. This is why this government has adopted a different solution. In doing so, the group, led by Dr. Mark Kranjc, the expert group, proposed this solution in 2005 and early 2006, a so-called cedular tax, a 20% tax. And it's not true now that we're talking about who has that kind of tax. At that time, this expert group relied primarily on taxation in some Scandinavian countries, whatever governments were at that time. We do know, however, that these Scandinavian countries are mainly social states. Secondly, what I have to say in this regard is that the government does not assess that there would be substantial fluctuations in exchange rates. On the contrary. It estimates that minor fluctuations will occur. It estimates that there will be minor fluctuations because when a financial instrument falls into payment, when a financial instrument arises that this right that someone has, regardless of what financial instrument it has to terminate, there will be fluctuations in the stock exchange, especially because we know that a financial instrument can also be issued on a given share. For example, a certain share of very good Slovenian companies. These financial instruments relating to Slovenian securities are the Stuttgart Stock Exchange 75, according to our information. And these financial instruments form part of a common index for a few more than 110 common indexes for financial instruments. As a result, we cannot agree that any problems on the stock exchange would arise. I think the stock market will be more stable, everyone also admits that it is because of financial instruments for so-called volatility on the stock exchange, exchange volatility, exchange fluctuations and so on. And what exactly happens? When an instrument falls into payment, then usually, it can also be reversed, but we have an example of an increase in the supply of securities, a certain amount of securities on the stock exchange. As the offer increases, the course falls, but those who are well-educated, those who can actually, by having these securities and instruments, also artificially make an increase in the offer to reach this threshold and that the courses fluctuate. Of course, then the well - trained will buy securities at a lower price, and those who are poorly trained will, of course, lose. And this is one reason to propose 40% to be proposed for the so-called speculative derivatives rate of 40%. In fact, it means that someone can change the course, meaning some moral gambling with other investors. Finally, investors will be able to invest more in the real sector and investment in the real sector will increase. Here was asked the question of the honourable Member, why now, why not earlier. The Ministry of Finance has been following traffic with financial instruments. One of the important instruments is the certificate, it has already been mentioned. In 2005, there were €100,000 of total transport with these certificates representing 86% of all derivatives in 2006 of €5.6 million, in 2007 of €17.6 million. This means, of course, that we are talking here about certain evolutionaryities, why these financial instruments were not taxed during a certain period. Of course, I'm not talking about capital gains, but I'm talking about transport value. I think that, given the record of the Bank of Slovenia's report on this, and also in some way the warning that, of course, this is the moment that is right for this law to be proposed. The government knows what it will tax, the government knows and has studied this issue. And from this point of view, there is no reason to argue that this topic is not sufficiently studied, that there is no professional service behind it and so on. It is true, however, that some stock exchange houses, of course, also make a substantial profit from this title, that some people are making profits today, and that there is absolutely nothing out of the ordinary that these profits are taxed. And it is not unusual that these profits are taxed at a slightly higher tax rate, and it is not unusual, after all, that part of the money in this title should be given to other people with lower incomes, in the form of a dragan supplement or in the form of any increased general relief. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u33	Thank you. I open applications for discussion on Article 14 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Squeakle, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u34	Very briefly. Yes, I agree with you, Mr. Secretary of State, that you don't mention newspaper articles. But here I quote the Association of Exchanges of Securities Members, which say: "Modern derivatives are a guide for development and the law introduces the concept of mutual burden and inhibition of the developing Slovenian capital market and reduces the attractiveness of the investment environment. This may cause collateral damage to the capital market due to the reduction of turnover with other financial instruments carried out." These are the facts. Now, if you don't believe the profession, then I can't help it. With regard to the proposals for the taxation of cedular goods. Yeah, that was a change of philosophy. In 2005, you introduced Republican philosophy with cedular taxation. The argument is very simple. The argument is the same as what we had in 1990, when we introduced instead of 20% 2% of the property sales tax that we still have today, because people then started registering contracts. And to say that if in 2004 you received 60 million tolars of then-transport, that then the tax was lower or higher or that it was not, Mr Shircelj, we carried out the transition. In these transition years, we have stimulated people to remain long-term business owners. And you destimulated it, so you got swings on the stock market. That's why you got swings on the stock market. And the story is simple: you have now made a salt mortal, not a segment 20%, but 40%. And the arguments are not strong enough, especially because you forget that such derivatives are also used to cover various risks, and these EUR 10 million to be received in the State budget will be paid by borrowers in banks or bank savers, because these EUR 10 million will have to be paid to the country from the bank portfolios by banks to charge more to borrowers or to interest less on deposits. That's the whole story. Now you decide whether you want to have an active, evolving stock exchange or follow the principle of "after us a deluge".
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Indeed, we can now be sure in a number of ways, from the fact that the progressive rate has turned into a cedular one, which is certainly a mistake to tax capital income with a single tax rate. But that's not the point today. And now we're going to put this on top of the fact that we're finally taxing something because it's untaxed, but of course it's not working. At least not for me, at least not for the Slovenian National Party. See, if we had already spoken - we had heard a little earlier explanation, and it was also written that the income from the removal of derivatives was exempt from tax, because we stimulated, should stimulate the stock market. Do you know what a shame is? Let us compare with this today; we, this and previous government, did not stimulate with a lower tax rate of investors who would come, set up a factory or whatever, employ people and people would work and these investors would be exempt from the first year tax, have 8% tax on the second year, third year I don't know, 50, and fourth year a 100% tax. Neither the previous nor the present government has accepted this for the benefit of all people. In order to support the stock exchange and, of course, a number of speculators who find themselves strong, we supported and abandoned this, as stated in Article 32(1) of the Income Act, that income is exempt from the removal of movable property and from the removal of derivatives. These executed - you need to know what the derivatives are. These are certificates, options, future contracts, swaps, otherwise it will be clear. We heard the numbers. From 2005 to 2007 - what an enormous amount has been made! The story is completely simple. People dealing with financial transactions and trading on markets are smart and smart and want to create traffic that will bring them the fastest, easiest and best profits. Okay. I'll give it to them. I'm not going anyway. I give it to them, but they have to pay the tax on it fairly, just like any worker who has to work for a year, and then they have to pay the tax for the "shit" to work. Those who earn in the securities market, in one way or another, do nothing, just monitor computers, papers and push papers to generate as much profits as possible. That's why they were even exempt from the tax. That's great! Of course, the country has sung and, of course, many stories can arise that have begun to unfold now. Of course, they've been going on before and they're going to continue. Therefore, let us stay with Article 14. See, Article 14, now all the emphasis in these speeches has been on these 40%, which are mentioned only in Article 14, paragraph 3. But it will be clear and understandable to all who want to know a little more about it or who listen to us, what we are talking about today. Article 14 is very clear and says: "The tax shall be calculated and paid from the tax base established in accordance with the provisions of Article 11 of this Law at a rate of 20%." In the second paragraph, it is even specified that every five years the ownership of the derivative is reduced by 5% after the conclusion of the transaction and after 20 years we return to no zero taxation. It is only the third paragraph, which is very clear that, irrespective of the first paragraph of this Article, which I have said, the profit tax achieved by the removal of the derivative before the expiry of the 12 months of possession, or from the conclusion of the transaction, shall be calculated and paid from the tax base at a rate of 40%. This is just one segment intended for those who would like to make a two-fold or three-fold profit in one way or another, very briefly, of course. It's not a problem. The holders of these securities that they are trading with, I wish them a favourable trade, of course, will pay a 20% rate of 367 days a year if they want to. But if they want it sooner, they'll have to pay it at this rate. It's just like that. It is true, once again, that it is sad that so far these categories have been exempt from tax payments, sadly, sadly that we have not remained at a proportional tax rate at the capital level. It's sad, too. It's true. It's only once in this country that order has to be made. And now to hang on to 40%, but maybe if the state and the competent ministry went to the securities market, it would be possible to speed up the good trade by finding those niches, I would not know enough where the speculative profits are, because they are probably not just here and tax them, of course, in the way we speak today, and others have left or even unloaded taxes that help with their business in the market for further economic and other developments in that country. But, ladies and gentlemen, something needs to be done. And that's what this government should do - even the previous one. It should examine the precise instruments with which it operates and determine which are charitable and which are speculative. And you know that today, at least in the world. And if we follow this pattern around the world, we have some experts, and we include these experts! And I hope that whoever will be, however it happens in the fall of this year, that this will be one of the first priorities, that we will all pay our taxes honestly. I will turn once again to those who have to work for a year and even pay a tax for the prize because they can work, while others walk from computer to computer, hire people who work for it and make enormous profits. It's not right for me, and you think what you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. It is high time that the government prepared this bill, which it taxed, at least so says the Government, in the same way those profits that have been exempt from taxation so far were certainly a great stumbling block, not just a stumbling block, but actually a Thakuna story. By trading these different forms of instruments, some have earned very much without paying any taxes. So the exception was intended, of course, to accelerate the capital market of these papers and, of course, you say, also the business of the stock exchange and to become an equivalent state and, on the other hand, to enable large profits to speculators and others if we do not define them all as speculators. That's why, of course, that's right. This implementation is late, and such things need to be asked why some are exempt. And on the other hand, this progression, mentioned earlier in my colleague Squill, that a progressive tax is always a welcome one for people. See, if we have the same tax, as a percentage, it mentions that the one who earns more pays more. And if he makes twice as much, he pays twice as much as the one that makes twice as much. Either way, it's not fairer. However, we must ask ourselves what we are accomplishing. And if this is a 40% tax in the case of these financial instruments used for risk insurance, it is necessary to ask whether this is the right approach. I am also asking you a question, comparatively, which does not touch this law, why to tax deposits in banks for the interest of the citizens they provide them, I do not know, a 4.5% interest rate that does not actually reach an inflationary rate. Why this has not been considered, and also because this can be resolved by means of an instrument, regulation, or guarantee that profit is actually taxed, not something else. Excuse me, is interest on deposits in banks amounting to 4% of capital gains? Is that a profit from capital? Then we also have to ask ourselves what this profit really is. So... [[End warning sign]] This is a question of this instrument, these insurance instruments, which should be considered. Otherwise, I agree with the bill's proposal to take care of this as well. I hope the government has also taken into account [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Tiny. Mr. Versnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to friends and friends and everyone else! I believe that for ordinary mortals, like most of us here in the National Assembly and others, the stock market has flourished well over the years, and we have probably used and loaded it or manipulated it with funds on this stock exchange. Why is that? On the stock exchange there are clear figures around the value of the shares themselves, daily contributions or reverse effects are shown and we have also had the opportunity to save or invest money in mutual funds. These last year's profits, which have led to a lively trading on the stock market, have caused many people to use completely unknown financial deposits in securities in the past. And it's clear that after, I wouldn't exactly say break, but at a time when the stock market is still, they're looking for some other possible investment. It is clear, however, that I think to all that those who have and have invested in the stock market, that we have paid transparently at the end of the year an appropriate tax in the event of early or faster disposal or sale of these shares. And I think it's the same. However, I find it very inappropriate or unfair that it has been possible for some, especially those who are the most educated, who can invest in such instruments, which do not bring more than once a year, but more than once a year, that they have not been taxed, but it is unfair to us or to all other citizens and citizens, and I strongly oppose and support the proposal by the Government. Today we have heard what trends were like in 2005, when it was still somehow, I will say, some slightity to the rapid rises in investment in these instruments, that here it is right to - we can say - a little late, but still at the right time - that these extraordinary gains are taxed at a higher rate. Indeed, it is and we have already heard that it is easy to manipulate the time shifts of funds here and there are enormous, we could say, turbo profits. Of course, in all of this, and I can say that it is a little disturbing that the amendment to article 14 is being proposed by parties such as Really, Liberal Democracy - but of these, I would expect them to be competing for capital - but to sign Lipa, of which we always hear only some concern for the social weak, that in this case they do not think that the Government will only be able to recover from these taxes to the socially weak, I think it is also doing well for you to sign here, but I think there is a bit of ambiguity. Personally, I do not think that we will support this amendment's 14th article in the parliamentary group, either, because we believe that the proposal made by the Government is true. Like I said, it might have been a little earlier, but it's still time. This is how we will support this proposal and we want the other colleagues and colleagues not to support Article 14, while the law is appropriate to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u42	Thank you, President. The LDS is one of the three signatories to this amendment with a clear conscience and a serious purpose when this amendment was being tabled. I am also somewhat disturbed by the fact that there are no colleagues on my left and on my right who could base the amendment and perhaps, together with an explanation, just convince the coalition that it is necessary to think more seriously about amending the law than the thinking just presented by Mr Veršnik. He is not involved in these papers or derivatives; he has no problem with this. Today we accept this because in Parliament, Members, we do not have problems with certain species, in this case papers or certain investments, because we want to create some stable conditions in Slovenia. And these stable trading conditions, the development of the capital market, we are breaking down. The fact is, in its introduction to this proposal, the Government has written that there are or will be severe remedial consequences for the country. Yes, the hard-to-repar consequences, but not for the country, for the development of the capital market, for the needs, wishes, purposes of investors, for the Slovenian stock exchange, which is becoming a real stock exchange, which will slowly have no role to play, and will not take part in its activities and activities. That's the problem. With such non-systemic measures, we destroy something that has long been created and built in Slovenia, but now with such "ad hoc" solutions, which do not have one good analysis behind them, one very consistent basis, we change just like that. This is why we have tabled an amendment to this Article 14 and proposed deleting only this - I stress - that these revenues are taxed at 40%. So we don't deny that they're taxing themselves like all the other capital revenues, 20%, but 40%! That's ridiculous, because that's what we're disstimulating, and this area of the market will disappear, there'll be no motive. Supposedly because this is how the country saves 10 million euros. She won't save, she won't get 10 million, she'll lose them in the long run, because this area and this market will simply be gone! And the result will not be just on this element of investing in these papers. This instability of this stock exchange, this instability of this country's behaviour will cause investors to simply leave the Slovenian stock exchange, decide to invest elsewhere and we will become the minimum of one country's minimum in this area. So if this fight is directed at speculators, perhaps, in principle, but as it is written in the law, it hurts everything. But the speculators are affected by those who have actually amortized some of the problems they had with their investments. Let's say the case of someone who rented an apartment loan. We know that banks are interested in these housing loans to offer; in fact, in Slovenia this type of credit or debt has been promoted for some time. With favourable interest rates made up of EURIBOR or, say, LIBOR, plus some real or real interest rates, the banks motivated the savers. However, the fact is that a very dynamic period has actually begun in capital markets and some have come to realize that this movement of these rates, interest rates, must also be amortised by investing in derivatives. As a result of the fact that they could thus avoid these risks arising from the increase in interest rates. This is a particularly good example, say, Swiss franc; and now to those who are not for speculative purposes, but because they wanted to protect their loan or their financial arrangement, we compensated them, on the one hand, for increased liabilities and on the other hand from the revenues from these derivatives. And that's the problem. So, we've thrown everything into the same basket, we've caused everybody problems, of course, on this microwave, but when you're counting all these consequences, we've caused and we're going to cause problems, of course, in the stock market, capital market and Slovenia, it's far from what we've expected some people to bring capitalism into our lives. So, there are a lot of these cases that a person might mention, how reckless it is, how reckless it is and what the consequences will be, but the coalition stands up as someone who has cloaks in front of his eyes, doesn't see left or right, takes decisions that someone has proposed, writes in the form of a law that has irreparable consequences, sends to Parliament always one and the same person that I have mercyd in my own way, Mr Shirtzl, who has to do all these unpleasant things, unpleasant things and under-thinking things to Members, defend from Members or from obviouss, and is slowly, I think, he has also become incredible, even though at the beginning when he joined this ruling structure, he thought and assessed that he came into this story as an expert, he is now more, he would say, a servant of these commands or something, because he is forever absent from us, and he has some other responsibilities or he is fighting over these things. Or maybe I'm even more concerned - or he should be worried because he's defending it in public. And isn't that enough of the appeals the stockholders have made? Is it not enough of these single initiatives and the conclusion that this is a bad solution for the state to work with itself to do a bear a service for the development of the capital market? So, I don't know who else in this country needs to believe and trust that the government would ever say that, but maybe we didn't do it deliberately, but maybe there's some correction to be made. For this reason, in the Liberal Democracy, we considered that the amendment should be re tabled, a debate opened or still, on the basis of a discussion with arguments for and perhaps against the justification, found a final decision. And I hope that this debate is such - I think it is worthy, I think it is such that it is not politically coloured, but it is in the interest of those who are aware and aware of these consequences - and therefore I think it is right for the coalition to consider this amendment, rather than to make a decision that will be worse or will have fatal consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Shircel, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Friday, I do not need to be shown mercy, nor is there any service here, so from this point of view I have a full conscience. She's not here. She's not here. Secondly, what I would like to say about stock stability and so on. Today, no financial instrument is listed on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, which means that in the Ljubljana Stock Exchange, derivatives are not traded in regular quotations. These financial instruments are quoted on other exchanges, 75 on the Stuttgart Stock Exchange, and affect the fact that they are issued on individual securities, which is listed on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange - I will not say any, but take one of the best values of the Ljubljana Stock Exchange paper and it is issued by this derivative financial instrument; this means that if a share of one Slovenian company falls below a certain value, then there will be an uptake of the executed financial instrument and an excessive offer will be made on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange. This means that other markets are already so developed that they have also included financial instruments implemented, ours is not yet, so it is certainly that the capital market is blocked and so on - no, the capital market, the stock market has a lot of opportunities to introduce new products into the capital market and certainly this will not create any more instability and so on; it will become more stable as there will be less volatility and there will be less fluctuation. In any event, financial instruments are executed, as has been said for insurance and the like, but derivatives are now considered to be the most risky investment if they actually exist. Thus, with this point of view, we cannot really talk about the fact that this would have a negative impact on the business itself, it will have an increasingly positive impact. However, there will certainly be a negative impact on the profits of certain companies actually involved. That's right. And this profit will, of course, also be shared with other citizens, by getting these citizens, some of them, certain supplements, pensioners and so on. I would also like to answer the Member of the Tiny, because I am speaking. Interest. Yeah, interest is one of the chances of someone investing in banks. But interest has some specifics, especially if we're talking about deposits. These interest rates are, according to the structure of bank savers, we know that there are many pensioners and so on, they are untaxed up to a certain amount. This limit is EUR 1000 interest, resulting in the fact that interest that is not earned on the basis of investment and so on is a threshold for these interest due to the structure of the savers themselves. It's just an answer to why you tax these deposits in banks. Of course, the Government does not support this amendment to Article 14.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u45	Thank you. Any other wishes for a debate? I'm reopening my application for debate. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The Honourable Government Representative! Allow me to refer to Article 14 or to the amendment. I would like to extend my sincere thanks to Mr Milan Petk for his insistence, alone of all three candidates from Z, LDS, Lipe has been here alone and has debated himself. True, correct, and on the other hand, it points to the weight of this amendment. However, Mr Friday, in some way you are getting rid of the personal discredit and personal evaluation of the representative of the Government, this is not up to you, Mr Member, to do so. If you allow only this brief comment. Now, maybe [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Perhaps the answer or the thought of why this law is at the moment. I am not this nature to criticize the past of the previous government, and so on, I am more interested in the present and the future. As an argument that I advocate that it is the right time to adopt this law is the report of the Bank of Slovenia. Banka Slovenije has been since 1. 1. 2007 under the roof of the great European Central Bank - it may not have that much power in monetary policy anymore, but it certainly has much power or even greater power in the supervisory function of the Bank of Slovenia. We have always warned of this function of Banka Slovenije, even when we elected the Governor of Banka Slovenije in the National Assembly. The Bank of Slovenia therefore has a very important supervisory function over financial markets in the country. And Banka Slovenije says in its November 2007 report that investments in derivatives are being increased, among which certificates dominate. In August 2007, Slovenians had 37 million euros or 4% of foreign direct investment, while the year before, in autumn 2006, only 2.5%. We've heard this before today, and I think it's good that we're repeating this important information. This same report by Banka Slovenije also notes that the high increase in courses at the Ljubljana Stock Exchange in the first 8 months of last year 2007 is due to several factors, including the issue of certificates on shares of Slovenian 'blue-chips'. At the end of March, the Stuttgart Stock Exchange listed 75 certificates directly on Slovenian shares and 133 certificates per index or basket, including Slovenian shares. This has also increased the fluctuation of courses on the Slovenian capital market. That is why my claim that this law, of course in the belief that it will be adopted, will contribute to the stabilisation of the Slovenian capital market, which is relatively small, and therefore any such small turbulence can be seriously neglected. The amendment to Article 14 states that if the rate of profit tax achieved by the removal of the derivative instrument had been adopted before the expiry of 12 months, 20% would have been accepted. The bill, which we support in our parliamentary group, is 40%. Of course, this is now a debate, whether 38 is better or 40 is better. I think that, after careful consideration, this level of 40 is optimal and will also have its effects. However, it is difficult to listen to the debate about this speaker that the tax reform adopted by the National Assembly is republican. Let me also say once again that the team that was the author of the tax reform which was led, as you know, by Mr Kranjc, today is the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia to follow tax regulations that also apply in Scandinavian countries known for being socially oriented. I don't know any republican states there. Thus, I reject the deceptions we have heard here, and we listen to them over and over and over and over and over again, to give gifts to the rich who are now even richer through tax reform. This is a lie, this is a lie and this is a deception and those who say it lie and do not hope to tell the Slovenian public and provide figures, data, exacts that show how much in the past year we have received tax inflows from capital gains, for example, in the past year. Perhaps it would be good, Mr Secretary of State, to provide this information to the National Assembly and then to see what happens to capital gains taxes once in a while. Of course, we can see that if we have the will. So, let me finish. The New Slovenia Group alone and also will not support this amendment to Article 14. But we support the text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Nor will I support this amendment to Article 14 of this Income Tax Act from the acquisition of derivatives. I must say that this terminology is very complicated and complicated for an ordinary citizen, but as long as we have examined it, I have looked at it, it is clear that it is a taxing of the profit turbo, and it also says that it is a taxing of speculative profits. And it's actually about preventing, if I say so, financial fraud. Some know how to use financial engineering to a great extent, and it is right to limit it. But what is interesting to me is this, in fact, as one Member has already asked - which parties have tabled this amendment, which is supposed to further allow this turbo profit, this speculation, this fraud in the financial markets? Of course, they are exactly the same customers who once took a terrible stand for national interest, but who ended up in "postboxes". Of course, I wonder if this amendment has also come through the same "postboxes", and has reached your parliamentary groups. Looks like he came through the same mailboxes. And that's why you're so committed, and that's why and through these "mail collectors" you're obviously going to be financed by your election campaign and that's why you're so taken back. Because if this is accepted, the commission for your election campaign will be slightly lower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u49	Is there still interest after the debate? I'm reopening the application. Mr. Friday, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. first, perhaps an explanation of Mr Horvath's thinking, which, on the one hand, expressed his appreciation for my insistence here and I am the only representative of the proposalr. On the other hand, I don't think Mr. Shircelj understood, either, when I was talking about him, who I'm "sorrying" -- you can say under the headings -- but not because I pity his expertise or ignorance. Because he's simply a victim of having to sit here instead of someone else, and an on-call culprit. This doesn't seem to be an insult, and I don't think that's how it was understood by him. The only explanation for this is this. However, if controversy is needed in the National Assembly, there is nothing wrong with it. But what Mr Jerovšek was talking about doesn't make any sense at all, because I don't think he really knows what this is about. I think it was hard for him to say, the term or the term of the derivative financial instruments, that he had to look into the letter to find out what we are dealing with today, not only that he knew any content around this law. If I can return it, perhaps I can return it with Mr Leban, who is now appearing in the Patria affair from yesterday, probably this drawer or moneybox, where they found the source of funding for their campaign. If so Jerovšek can spend these statements on us, it is likely that it is possible to spend such statements on the SDS account, and there are far greater values than here in this case, and this collector will be more quickly filled with these money for the electoral campaign. We have a clear conscience, no relationship with those we think we do not have in this way to see through our material benefits, but we believe that this debate - and for this is the National Assembly - is to be held at all points of view. When we proposed the amendment, we proposed it precisely because we believe that some of the elements of this bill have not been well rethought and that we are still insisting. We insist that we intervene where it does not make sense to tax 40% of the tax rate. Just these documents, these papers that amortize some maybe risky investments.This I think is right, fair. And if someone understands it as an antisocial amendment, then they misinterpret it -- about those speculators, that we speak again and again and elsewhere. By the way, on the development of this capital market or on these consequences from the past, a change from a democratic or social to a republican philosophy. So, if you want a comparison of how and what it does on European markets and what the consequences are and what the taxation is, then Finland has introduced a three-stage cedular taxation. So she went to three levels of taxation, but in this way she's obviously done better than what some people think with us, either with progressive or a cedular decision. So these models are so many in Europe that we cannot generalise them, and this law or these derivatives do not have one single regulation in European legislation. So it is right to talk about it, not to lock ourselves in our nursery, but to see nothing else around us. We therefore argue that everything the opposition is proposing is not okay. We think that this amendment is okay, and we still believe that it needs to be supported, and that it will be better that we allow such a capital market and the Slovenian stock exchanges and those small investors that they are protected from the risks we are talking about here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u51	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u52	Good afternoon. Have a nice hello again! Look, today is the dilemma here that we have an amendment that is not the substantive amendment of the Zares amendment, nor the LDS amendment, nor the Lipe amendment, but is actually the amendment of the Association of Securities Exchange Members and is the substantive expert argument of the members of the stock exchange, which reminds us of the anomaly in the system introduced by this law. Especially since the law states that this law should introduce or increase the equality of taxation. No, no, no. This law will not increase this equality, but it will make another distinction. We do not have a problem with the republican coalition opting for cedral taxation. As you mentioned earlier in Scandinavian countries, let me immediately say; old Scandinavian countries with three classes and three levels of taxation according to the value of the volume of trade. It would probably make sense in Slovenia to say: okay, we have a demodal taxation of all securities transactions up to, for example, I don't know, 10, 20, 50 thousand Euros of annual profits, and above that a higher rate. This is simply a re-introduction of some limited progress, because we want those who have more to contribute relatively more to the common treasury. It's just a matter of policy for individual, if you want, political groups. And we stand for prosperity for everything. Now what you're suggesting here is that you're going to take it down. And that all those, particularly small investors, will suffer a further downturn if the argument put forward by the Securities Exchange Association is true. And I have no reason not to join this argument. Therefore, we suggest that if you have decided to be taxed on a cadular basis in 2005, be consistent. And don't try like some "deus machina" on behalf of someone I don't know who to protect. Because when you attack potential speculators and say you're protecting those who would lose, you forget that the stock market is going to collapse. This one's falling anyway. It's falling for known reasons, one of them is the financial crisis. The second is, of course, the Slovenian way of selling capital in this mandate. Enable the 28 known or I don't know how many takeovers in this mandate that have done what they have done. And this will continue, and you've come up with an instrument that will help bring it down to a lower level. And that's just not good. The Bank of Slovenia is talking about that we have this issue, but it is not the only or main issue of volatility on the stock exchange. However, Banka Slovenije said that last year the Ministry of Finance decided to pay EUR 800 million prematurely, and you are silent about this in your argument. So why do we have these fluctuations on the stock market and who is to blame or not to blame, who did this exogenously, we can have a long discussion about it. However, the argument of the Securities Markets Association is very clear: trading will decrease, capital outflows to foreign suppliers will increase, as the investor will be able to find a favourable tax treatment. You're going to say no, no, because we have world income and we're going to persecute these people. Yeah, you know what it's like to be in Austria next door, only to be told in a global way. We therefore estimate that there is no doubt that the argument of the risk of reducing trade in stock is a reduction in business performance, a reduction in turnover, certainly an argument to be joined. Therefore, the amendment to Article 14 will be supported and decided further on to support the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u53	Thank you. Any other interests? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate on this Member and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the debate on the 27th Article and the amendment of the LDS Group to this Article. I'm opening the application. Mr. Friday, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u54	Thank you. I think that the definition of this amendment is clear to most or that it is quite clear what it is. Just as the law proposes, it proposes that this tax legislation or this amendment of the law be implemented in mid-summer, i.e. in the middle of a tax year, in a half-year, when, in fact, you cannot even create an information basis to cover data, to provide data and to obtain data from the country. For this reason, we have proposed that this term should be amended so that the law enters into force, we hope that it will be amended by Article 14, paragraph 1.1.2009. This creates some normal conditions, a stable environment in which taxpayers or those trading in these documents, or those who are obliged to provide data, can do so. And that the state will also be able to prepare the basis, because otherwise I do not know how this matter will work. Now, if the government's intention was to write in the law in mid-2008, because she wanted to say - oh, that's what we did, now it's going to come into force in our mandate, then this thing is wrong. So it's missing because operationally they're just going to be too much trouble to do that. I believe that it is difficult to say, but now let it enter into force on 1.1.2009, because someone will say that this is not what the Government has done in this mandate and will suffer the consequences of another government. But it would be objective and fair to say that the business year starts on 1.1., obligations begin under this law, and we all have an easier situation. For this reason, this purpose is purely of a practical nature, of an operational nature, completely logical and completely without a political omen. I hope that this is also the case with the proposer and that the coalition could at least confirm it with such an amendment to this Article. It's just that, it's all about what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Versnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Well, this amendment could be, we could call it a little different, but let's give it to those who have done this joyfully, give this amendment a chance and say to them, "Lord, hurry up, do manipulations by the end of the year, hurry up, work by the end of the year, and then you'll be taxed. [[...]] That's what this amendment is about. Listen, I'd like to ask for some serious attention, gentlemen! If it is found that the matter is manipulative, then this matter must be stopped immediately, but not that we are now going to announce six months ahead, then manipulate and then you will pay that 40% tax. Please! I strongly reject this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Squeakle.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u58	This debate points to a misunderstanding of the foundations of the legal system. And these are that the legal conditions, the legal conditions are known in advance. Gentlemen, if, of course, you think this was so mechanical and I don't know what, then on December 31, 2007, we should convene this meeting by midnight and adopt this law! But what a colleague said is pure politics. If the matter was so problematic, then we would have done it. So we say, three and a half years you've been asleep, now you've woken up, practically three months before the elections, and - what are you going to do now? The amendment is very logical. However, it comes from the simple fact that we still have a legal country in Slovenia. Everything else is a dictatorship. We'll just be taxing something new yesterday. Therefore, of course, we propose that you accept this amendment. And, of course, if you've already decided on 40% of the cedular taxation, you'll get this second year of 10 million euros if, of course, that's what it was. Gentlemen, let's calm down. I said, all these amendments tabled by the opposition today are amendments to the Association of Securities Exchange Members and it is enough for one opposition party to submit this [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] For more than that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Shircel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The Government of the Amendment does not support Article 27 for the following reason. In fact, computer programs are known today. Computer programs are used by stockbrokers and those trading in derivatives. This also proves if you walk on the Internet and see, say, what kind of presentation, what kind of capital gain is possible, for example, in 4 days, let's say 50%, 60%. This is all recorded. It is noted that this person must receive this capital gain. And the tax administration needs exactly the same data. That's what you call the data that already exists today. Because this capital gains will be taxed. Here, of course, the mathematical operation is simple, essentially multiplying by the degree. Therefore, there is no reason to extend the validity of this Act to 1 January 2009, but the law may enter into force within the time limit proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u61	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the adjournment of the 29th agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Inventory. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members with Mr Janko Webro, first signed. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mr Bojan Starman, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good day again! At its 40th meeting, on 4 June 2008, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act following a reduced procedure. This proposal has been submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Janko Webro following a reduced procedure. On 9.5.2008, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. Until the deadline for the submission of amendments to the proposed law, the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats has tabled an amendment to Article 1. The meeting was attended by the first-signed proposer, Mr Janko Weber, representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service. When the text was presented, the members of the Committee also received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 19.5.2008, the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 30.5.2008 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats to Article 1 of the legislative proposal. The applicant considers that the solutions set out in Article 154 of the Income Act are inadequate and do not allow for fair taxation. The subsidy must be paid by everyone, whether they actually received the subsidy or not, and whether they are entitled to the subsidy at all. Following that objective, the main principle of the law is to ensure a solution that would prevent taxable persons who have not received subsidies. The Government considers that such a proposal is unnecessary, since the basic text already allows the implementation of the law in a way that only those land or the cadastral income of those land used by the debtors, who are members of the farm households and who have actually received tax subsidies in the year of taxation are entitled to receive the subsidy. The Government also submits that only agricultural and forestry land in the use of the taxpayers who received the subsidies or for the calculation of the average amount of subsidies per herring shall be taken into account for the calculation of the average amount of the subsidy, only by the debtors who actually received these subsidies. Even in the information calculation for 2007, the average amounts of subsidies will not be considered as part of the income of the debtors to all those who have not received these subsidies. In view of the Government's proposal that the law is not suitable for consideration, we have also considered the topic of beekeeping, disease, pestilence, death of bees in some way, but the government has confirmed that this is being adequately addressed in other places. Finally, it was concluded that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act was not suitable for further consideration. We also propose that this should be accepted by this National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u63	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Janko Webr's representative for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of his mother's working body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! We have tabled a proposal for a law supplementing the Income Act to members of the Social Democrats because we want to eliminate the unfair taxation of owners of agricultural land, forests and beekeepers who have not received subsidies for their activities at all. At the same time, we must point out that we have responded to the warnings of the taxpayers for the payment of income, who have been horrified to notice that the Government is charging income on income that they have not received or have not requested for the subsidy. We are also pleased that we have managed with the advice to appeal against the decisions and thereby prevent the exercise of unfair taxation, as we recall that the Ministry of Finance has always claimed that they must pay the tax and that the complaints are not substantiated. Today, we can see that the Government admits its error, but it saves it in an illegal way. It is saved on the basis of the legal opinion of the Institute, which also concluded that it is not possible to tax the income you did not receive. We point out, however, that if the Government wishes to take this administrative opinion into account, it needs to amend the Income Act, Article 154 of the Income Act, which instructs the Minister of Finance to issue a decision on taxpayers' taxation, even though they have not received subsidies. According to the proposalers, the amendment to Article 154 is necessary and we would also like to allow the Government to legally tax those who have not received the subsidies. While the proposal did not receive support from the Finance Committee, I must say that in the State Council, both commissions received support because they are aware of the problem posed by unfair taxation. At the same time, we have also tabled an amendment on the Committee, whereby we want beekeepers to fully exempt income payments from income generated by agricultural activity or honey production. This is due to the critical situation in the number of bee families in Slovenia. This number has already fallen below 50% of the bee families we have already had in Slovenia, which means that the number of bee families has already exceeded the critical level, which allows for normal pollination and development of plants as well as agricultural crops. Beekeepers also point to these critical situations. One of the reasons why the number of bee families has decreased is that of inadequate tax legislation. Beekeepers estimate that about 20% of bee families have decreased due to taxation in the Income Act. If we add to this the problems that beekeepers have with bee treatment, then we can see that the bee is a crane, which is also an indigenous species in Slovenia, and we have also protected it before joining the European Union and committed ourselves to doing everything we can to preserve this autonomy in the future. Unfortunately, during this period we are also faced with increased use of plant protection products, so that the weakened crane bee is simply failing due to the inability to treat effectively, and we are facing major cases of seas recently in Slovenia. And the first measure that the National Assembly could take today would be to exempt beekeepers from their income for their activity as beekeepers. The government opposes that. However, the Ministry of Finance, we can read in the newspaper, says that beekeepers can require a decree, a ring payment or a tax write-off on agricultural income if they are in a difficult economic situation. How non-lifely to address the extremely vital issue of bees' existence and we can only really comment that this is one of those views, both by the Committee on Finance and by the Government, which solves life problems in a non-life way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u65	Thank you. I give my word to the representative of the Government to Mr Mag. Andrea Shirtzl, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! According to the Government, the bill is unnecessary because the government has already addressed this issue. This issue has been regulated by the fact that the tax benefits paid on subsidies are exclusively those which have actually received subsidies. In doing so, the Government did not act unlawfully, the Government acted in accordance with Article 154 of the Income Act, in accordance with Article 71 of the Income Act and in accordance with Article 72 of the Income Act. The government has not adopted such a measure on the basis of an opinion, but on the basis of law. In doing so, it took into account the opinion of the independent professional institution. In fact, this means that the taxpayers have already received informational calculations for 2007 so that they can object to these IT calculations. And if they have objected, the tax administration will examine their arguments - whether they are right or wrong. The 2007 income was charged and, as I know or as I have information, when taxpayers, including those receiving the subsidies, received the calculations, did not have any major contradictions with regard to the IT calculations. The Government or the Ministry of Finance took into account this fact that subsidies are taxed exclusively for those who actually receive them. If anyone paid the tax on the basis of their previous income advance, it was settled. The measure referred to here and by which the Ministry of Finance informs the taxpayers is that they can postpone payment of the tax or that they can pay in instalments is one of the measures by which these difficult material matters of taxable persons are resolved. In addition, the Government has taken action to address problems in relation to bees or has taken certain measures, particularly the Ministry of Agriculture, in order to ease the critical situation that is today, and in particular from this point of view that those beekeepers who have had consequences, including the material consequences of sea bees, receive a certain amount of compensation for this. And this is one of the measures that solves this problem. The problem must also be solved in the long term, as the government is aware of the importance of bees primarily to ensure a balance in nature. And from this point of view, it will prepare for 2008 amendments to the legislation that will go in the direction of addressing, in particular, the issue of the exemption of 40 stumps in relation to the cadastral income. In other words, the Government is aware of the problems in agriculture and especially in the field of beekeeping. That is why it has settled these current issues within the framework of the current legislation, and in a legal way, it considers that this proposal is unnecessary because the 2007 issue is already being settled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u67	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Cyril Testen will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we will support the decision of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act is not suitable for further consideration. In the discussions that took place when the proposed amendments were considered and the law was amended, the view was clearly drawn up that the proposal was not acceptable for a number of reasons which we agree with in the New Slovenia Group. The bill also interferes with systemic solutions, which is why, in our Group of Members, we do not think that it is appropriate to deal with the short-term process, and we do not support the proposed amendment for this reason either. In the New Slovenia Group we advocate a fair, efficient and transparent tax system. In Slovenia, much has been done in the area of tax legislation in recent years, resulting in an additional burden on the economy and also in agriculture, which has increased the competitiveness of our economic operators and also agriculture in the domestic and global markets. We have also examined the proposal of fellow Members of the Social Democrats, but in our view it is unnecessary, as the system of taxation of agricultural income needs to be seen as a whole. It has to be said that the existing Income Act has set a threshold for cadastral income which is significantly higher and which has significantly reduced the number of debtors, eliminated the rate of income indemnification and introduced a flat-rate subsidy scheme in average amounts per hectare of agricultural and forestry land. Like everyone in this National Assembly, we were also concerned in the New Slovenia Group about beekeeping and the latest events that have taken place and resulted in a drastic decline of the bee fund in practically the entire territory of Slovenia. We believe that there is a need to pay more attention to this issue and to adopt measures that will adequately address the situation. However, the proposal for this law will not solve the situation, and for this reason we do not support the proposal referred to earlier in the Group of Members. In the New Slovenia Group, we have been stressing for some time now that there will be no need to pay subsidies to taxpayers who have not received subsidies, not in the field of agriculture, where such farmers will be taxed solely on the basis of the cadastral income, and also to non-cebelarators who have not received subsidies. For all of this we will support the proposal of the Committee in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend and supplement the law of the Group of Members was the result of complications that all landowners, including those who did not receive or benefit from the decision to pay income for agricultural subsidies, received the decision. The proposal for a law is unnecessary, since the provisions already in force allow the law to be implemented by allowing income from subsidies over average amounts to be attributed only to those lands or by adding to the cadastral income of those land used by the debtors, who are members of the farm households, economies which have also received taxable subsidies during the tax year. This is also the position of the tax institute for Maribor, which maintains the view that only actual income can be included in the tax base. Of course, we expect the Ministry of Finance to regulate the non-taxation of beekeeping to 40 beekeepers of families as soon as possible, which has already been agreed upon in the adoption of the Income Act, but the law obviously interprets differently. For these reasons, Members of the SLS Group will not be supported by the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Posedel. [[He's not here.]] Mr Yelen will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u72	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Member of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Secretary of State. Not long ago, when we adopted new income legislation in this Chamber, which we believe should follow the principles of legal certainty and confidence in law, it should therefore be designed so that it does not need to be amended simply due to a lack of discretion in the formulation of basic provisions. Thus, we now have before us a proposal for a new law on income, which covers only one article, but is essential in the taxation of the average amounts of subsidies per hectare of land or forest areas, i.e. the average amounts of the subsidy per tree. The contested income is therefore a subsidy for which the debtors have neither applied nor actually received it. When Durs started sending out informational calculations by including these amounts, there were also certain activities resulting from the negative public response resulting from the exclusion of this part of the income that the debtors would not actually be taxed for something they had not received. While the Government considers that such a procedure does not require amending existing legislation in any way, it is possible to conclude from the interpretation of income provisions that only those incomes which are actually adopted fall under taxation. The government here relies on the opinion of the Tax Institute of Maribor. However, the fact is that existing income legislation allows for the taxation of actually unpaid subsidies and aid. Therefore, such an opinion by the tax institute is completely irrelevant, since, in the event of doubt, the legal ambiguity is determined by the only institution which has established a misleading interpretation, an authentic interpretation adopted by the National Assembly. Since, in our opinion, income legislation allows for such an anomaly, it is necessary to approach the amendment of the basic law in order to eliminate this anomaly. In this context, Members of the DeSUS support the basic intention of the proposer of this novel, but they are following, and I cannot undermine it. The proposal for a novelty has been drawn up inconsistently, only superficially, and thus far changes the uniform treatment of taxpayers from the point of view of subsidies, which is not particularly substantiated. The texts concerning the well-intentioned exemption from tax on beekeeping activities, in particular in view of the last mass murder of bees, cannot be supported by our DeSUS Group, since it is not sufficient for such tax benefit to simply amend one article in the transitional provisions of the basic law, but should also amend or delete other provisions of the Income Act relating to the taxation of this activity. The DeSUS Group cannot contribute to the proposed amendment to the Income Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u74	Thanks again. Colleagues and colleagues! Well, it is good that this proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on income in turn in the package of these laws, because if not, it is taught about this National Assembly or those who think with their heads in the National Assembly and know what is right and what is wrong. Look, I'm speaking lazily, in the case that we talked about something in the previous marriage, so someone who didn't pay taxes did, and in this case, if we're looking at human, we're taxing someone and paying taxes for something they didn't get. It makes sense that something doesn't work out here. In particular, if we look at the applicant’s claims, if we look at paragraph 154, if we look at the Government’s claims or opinions, and if we look at the position or extract from the position of the parent’s working body. The applicant’s claim, which was also submitted by this law, is that fair taxation is excluded because the subsidy income is paid by everyone, whether they actually received the subsidy or not. When looking at the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government argues that only those agricultural and forestry land where subsidies were received are taken into account when calculating the average amounts to land, in taxation. And if I look at the cut from the opinion of the parent working body, I will also find among the points of view that the Income Act provides for the payment of income on the average amount of subsidies, irrespective of the actual receipt, which, in the opinion put forward, is in favour of the proposed proposal. Now I'd like to ask you first what's true and what's not. You know, you can trust one another and the other. But if I look at the 154th article that I just read and I read it after also taking into account the amendment proposal from my colleagues from the Social Democrats party, I find that they are right. This is my opinion, this is the opinion of the Slovenian National Party - we cannot ask people to pay their income for something they have not received. And that's it. Just like we can't let someone who's got a lot to pay their income. In order to get into the nomotechnics of the proposed law or in the legal form, I think there are many, I respect, capable lawyers in the Legislative and Legal Service who will, who are or who are to now point out possible corrections that we have heard about from some colleagues. We are not interested in this in the Slovenian National Party. We're interested in content. We are convinced that it is also that those who do not receive the subsidies will not pay the income. On the other hand, we also assess the second part proposed in the proposal of this law, concerning beekeeping. If we are already making exceptions to excuse someone for whatever reason now, not to say what is happening this year, what is truly tragic, we could already say that we are proud of the indigenous species of bees, our short bees, and given the number, we could find out how many of these small bees help to preserve the indigenous species that contribute to those rare domestic products that are being processed by the European market with requirements and laws. And you could safely say that such as domestic beekeepers, you really wouldn't have to pay the income for those few liters of honey they make, which is mainly for children and older people who believe in human medicine and honey charity. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we will propose a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, and I have already said why. We believe that what you don't get, you can't, and you can't pay your income, and we think that domestic beekeepers are worth paying their income, no matter what else, to apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Lip Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u76	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! In our firm conviction, that is to say, according to the Lip Group, the basic law on income belongs to one of the authors of social inequality in our country. It is one of those laws that violates the basic constitutional provision on the social state. In the Lipa Group, we resent the normal roof law for four things. And four things will be complemented in the coming period in the context of the Lipa Group. Not complemented by politics, but complemented by violating the constitutional principle and thus putting citizens and citizens in an unequal position. First time. Number of income classes. We all know, the legislator knows that the executive branch of the government knows that if there is some additional taxation to blame, those with minimum benefits are in the division of so-called income classes. Another time. Exemption, i.e. categories of weighted, minimum income from the income obligation. But that's not the proposal of this law. This bill, sent to us by the opposition and supported by us, only touches on one part of the changes, which has been mentioned several times today and here. It can be based on the fact that in the existing system of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Finance and, finally, the Ministry of Economics also taxed a large group of individuals under the pretext that they received or were supposed to receive something. It's not like that. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taxed not only those who have requested but not even those who have even applied for a thing called a subsidy. According to our assessment, this kind of tax margin is totally unacceptable for the unwarranted or those who have not received or requested it. When the Secretary of State spoke in defence of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and said how nice and right it is that citizens must be transferred to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the form of more financial resources in the form of various taxes, not least from the Income Act, his words which were, I quote, 'information calculation and who disagrees with this information calculation could object'. But, you know, it's about as if two million citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, of course I'm exaggerating about numbers, but for ease of understanding, got a home sentence for traffic offences. And one of them would disagree should object. This is, according to our assessment, in the opinion of the Lipa Group, a minimum of not only improperly saying that it is to give someone a penalty, in the form of a tax, in today's case, and if he complains, the Government or the contractor by the Government, i.e. the fiscal authority, may decide on this complaint. Do we even understand what we are discussing today? We have provided citizens with or better told by the Ministry of Finance, the Tax Administration has given them penalties for something because the tax is a punishment, ladies and gentlemen, for something they have not done at all. And now we will send if we take the strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, traffic offences or traffic penalties to those citizens who are not at all involved in transport. But if they object to it, then the government will consider that maybe they just don't owe it. I want to say that in the Lipa Group, we will support the proposal for amendments to the Income Act, even though only one of the necessary changes will be necessary. I said two in the introduction, i.e. two more deficits that we are planning under tax or income legislation under the Lip Group. And the fourth, which, according to my assessment, represents a reform of tax policy, but not the reform that we witnessed at the beginning of the mandate that has burdened the richest and tax burdened the poorest, is primarily that the state would approach the system that the pensioners should be employed from the beginning of their monthly income; [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] First, the so-called censorship of normal quality life is calculated, and then only the rest, if anything remains and rarely remains, is the state sitting on it, not the other way around, which we are witnessing today. [[...]] Of course we'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr. Zvonko Černač will present his position [[...]] [[He's not here.]] Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u78	Good afternoon to all who think you need to be in this Chamber today and especially to the representative of the Ministry of Finance and to the Vice-President. The Group of Social Democrats will vote against the proposal for a decision adopted by the Committee. Not only is it because the first-signed member of our parliamentary group is among the candidates, but it is because we believe that the amendment of the Income Act is indispensable for several reasons. One of the most important things is that, by such a voluntary approach as the Ministry of Finance has chosen to go and say, 154th Article of the Income Act does not need to be understood as it is written, but can be understood as we understand it, and each year the Government or the Ministry of Finance can respond depending on how quickly the reactions of the debtors will be, by saying that the pledges under 154th Article are largely fictitious taxpayers for the payment of income. Since the debtors reacted quickly enough this year, the Ministry of Finance and Durs were afraid and quickly said no, no, for those of them who did not receive anything will not have to pay their income. Interesting! So the second year, if we give this kind of resistance, let's say it's not going to happen, but they're going to pay the income from something they didn't get. The base was calculated by dividing the state, let's say EUR 70 million of subsidies, divided by the number of hectares and then each one having one hectare, two hectares, five hectares of land, will have to add a fraction of these 70 million to its income base and then pay the income. It is said that citizens are not subject to the implementation of laws, but we are subject to the good will or bad will of the current Minister of Finance, the current Director of the Tax Administration, or perhaps any coalition that is in power at that time. We believe that this is not the way in which laws are made, and this is not how they are implemented. I well understood that the opinion of an independent institution in Maribor was not relevant or was not the only reason that the Ministry decided not to comply with Article 154 of the Income Act, but Article 71 of the Income Act, but from the beginning it was unusual that in Article 154, the obligation of taxpayers had to pay that it was possible to pay income from something they had not received paid. But in this article, another interesting thing is that if the average subsidy per hectare of agricultural land and forests is calculated as I said before, then it means that among those 70,000 debtors who actually received the subsidy, one of them received, say, EUR 200,000 of subsidy, the other received 5,000 EUR of subsidy, depending on how much land they have, those who received 5,000 EUR of subsidy may have more land than those who received 500,000 Euros. But they're both going to pay per hectare, or they're going to get the average per hectare the same, and they're going to pay the subsidy income very differently. So the one who gets less subsidies will theoretically be able to pay more income than the one who gets more. This article is fundamentally wrong and should be urgently corrected. Our move was certainly the right one, the only thing is the good will of the Ministry to find out how to properly formulate certain changes. No, the will of the coalition is as usual such that whatever the opposition says is not good. I wish you good luck convincing farmers how to act in the future when they have a less willing Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u79	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the adjournment of the 29th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Review of Financial Relations and Separate Reporting of Different Activities. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Shirtzl, to the Secretary of State. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members, honourable Members! With the existing law, this is the Transparency of Financial Relations Act and the separate recording of various activities, Commission Directive 2006/111 of 16 November 2006 on the transparency of financial relations between Member States and public undertakings and on financial transparency within certain undertakings has been transposed into the Slovenian legal order. Pursuant to the Directive, the law lays down a general rule on the transparency of financial flows for financial relations between authorities and public undertakings and the performance services of general economic interest, i.e. public services by providing separate accounting. It is said that separate accounting for those activities that are financed from public funds or budgets and separate accounting for those activities whose revenues are achieved on the market. By regulating the system of transparency of financial relations between authorities and undertakings under their dominant influence, that is, public undertakings, the granting of unlawful State aid is prevented. Such registration, of course introduced here by this law, is provided for in the Directive. By regulating the separate recording of various activities in public service providers, it is thus prevented from subsidising market activities from public funds and, of course, this does not mean that they are not State aid. The transparent system of financial flows of public funds thus prevents distortions of competition in the market and at the same time leads to rational use of public funds. Therefore, the draft law provides that AJPES collects and processes data on all public funds transactions which have been allocated in any form to public undertakings and service providers of general economic interest. In order to be as rational as possible, amendments and additions to the law propose reporting via the online application. In doing so, the online application will bring other benefits, such as the possibility of using both data collected for other purposes, such as keeping a business record of assets, fulfilling obligations under the acquisition law, reporting to international organisations such as the EU, the OECD, the International Monetary Fund and comparing the data on assets in the asset balance sheet. Since the new standard classification in the public has been applied since 1 January 2008, it is also proposed to align the legal provisions with this new classification. Your Honor! The government is proposing to the National Assembly that it adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u81	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Bojan Starman, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u82	Thank you very much again for your word. Say good-bye again! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held at its 40th meeting, on 4. 6. 2008 also addressed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on transparency of financial relations and the separate recording of various activities in the reduced procedure. At its 9.5. meeting, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal should be considered following a reduced procedure. We have received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which made comments on Articles 1, 3 and 8 of the Act. The comments are taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. Within the time limit presented, the amendments were tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, the New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners to the said Articles 1, 3, 8 and 11. The proposal for a law is essentially complementary to the law in force, which brings to Slovenia the European Community Commission Directive 2006/11 of 11 November 2006. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that she agreed with the proposed amendments, which had been drawn up on the basis of her opinion. The Committee adopted such amendments by the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian People's Party and the Democratic Party of Pensioners as of 1st, 3rd, 8th and 11th Article for the new 10th Article and adopted them. It has arranged them in accordance with Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in a supplementary proposal for a law which we propose to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u83	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance, Your Honor. The Law on Transparency of Financial Relations and Separate Recording of Various Activities was adopted for the purpose of transposition of the Directive by the Commission in November 2006. The purpose of the adoption of this Act is to amend and supplement the provisions of the Basic Law by giving all necessary powers to establish an online application and to regulate certain issues with the Regulation and to comply with other applicable rules on the standard classification of activities and the accounting of public law persons. The drafting of the Regulation, laid down in Article 13 of the Basic Law, which should be issued by the Minister of Finance, has been pointed out by the Office of the Government of Law that certain issues should be dealt with by law and that the powers of the Minister to regulate certain issues should also be supplemented by a regulation. As this implementation of the law is not feasible in practice, the law needs to be amended accordingly and Members of the SLS Group will therefore be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. President, once again. Colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government! When I read, admit, more superficially than other laws, this proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on transparency of financial relations and separate recording of various activities, I understood, as a basic objective, greater transparency in the business itself. Indeed, the fact is that there are many entities operating on the basis of public funds and also operating on the basis of market values; it is right that this difference is visible. The next question, when we establish this visibility, how it deals with public funds and how it operates on the market, is that I need to find a goal why. And so we have heard in this objective that this is a matter of, I will use the term used by the distinguished Secretary of State to prevent the granting of unjustifiable State aid. On the basis of everything that has been said so far, this bill we are talking about is very simple. There was no discussion on the working body either, and everyone agreed with the proposed law. However, when I met with representatives of human universities in the country, the Republic of Slovenia, I was asked one big question, to which I could not find the answer. They are, for example, a typical example, which - human universities are needed in Slovenia, we must admit. They are needed because of all their functions and content that they give to people without education, to the last opportunity they give to people for education in different fields. Now we come to the fact that people's universities with individual programmes are justified - here I have a concrete case and I have also addressed to the Government the question of the mission - to European and state resources. Human Universities have developed call programmes to obtain funds that they would immediately respond to through programmes that they have done, and this has not been done in that country. If the human university wanted to survive, it had to go to the market. Now we're there! So she was forced to go to the market because there were no calls for programmes. And this law will now do what it should not do in this case: everything that the human university has done on the market under duress, because it has not received European funds, I am speaking specifically of the European social fund, which is also the least used in this country, but from this fund the people's university could get the most out of it, but it is not because there are no calls. And now everything she has done on the market will be counted, even though she has done under duress not to be eligible for State aid. And unfortunately, in my opinion, this will lead to the loss of human universities if it goes that way. By doing so, we will lose one major educational segment. If we focus on an exposed problem, this law is unfair. In this case, I speak, but we can't generalise now. I know that a basic solution is needed, and I am talking about this content so that no one will get the wrong idea, as soon as possible, of the number of calls that people's universities could make with their programs already built, registered and received public funds and normally perform those jobs that they have already become accustomed to. But once again, today the public university is forced to go to market also for those basic programmes, such as primary education or people's education, because of restructuring, because some activity has failed and these people need to be restructured in order to get a job elsewhere. And they can't do that. They cannot because they do not receive state and European funds, so they are forced to go to market and this law will therefore punish them. That is why we will be very careful in the Slovenian National Party about the decision on this law, but I will be happy if it succeeds and if we say something with Mr Shirtzl about what I have said, as well as with your colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Bojan Starman will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u88	Your Honor! The proposal for a law is essentially complementary to the law in force, which introduced into the Slovenian legal order the Directive of Commission 2006/111 of the European Council of 16 November 2006. It shall be determined when an individual entity operates on the basis of public funds and when on the basis of market activities. This breakdown also means that they keep records or accounts separately and must also report on this basis. The person whose income exceeds EUR 10 million must report and on this basis must find the criteria on which the corresponding share of the costs he receives will be attributed to the revenue. At the same time, the proposed law also provides for reporting on an online application, much more precisely and not by means of a sub-legislative act, but by law. In this way, this information may also be used for the maintenance of business records of assets, the fulfilment of different obligations under the takeover law and international reporting. This actually establishes a public application to display all data. The purpose of that Act is therefore to amend and supplement the provisions so that all necessary powers will be given to establish an online application as a means of reporting between authorities and public undertakings or undertakings with public powers in electronic form, instead of reporting by electronic mail. The purpose of the law is also to regulate certain issues with the rule of law and to bring them into line with other applicable rules, such as the standard classification of activities and the accounting of persons governed by public law. The principles of cost-effectiveness are taken into account, namely the introduction of an online application, the hierarchy of legal acts relating to the powers of law and the regulation of the content in the regulations and compliance with other applicable laws on the CAP and on the accounting of public law persons. Let me just mention that this law also allows persons of public law to take into account their specificities when separate accounting records are made. This may put a strain on the double management of accounting records in cases where they are divergent with persons of public law. It is also appropriate to provide the Minister of Finance with appropriate powers to further regulate the transparency of financial relations with the Rules of Procedure. Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u89	Thank you. Mag. Milan M. Cvikl will present the position of the Socialist Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u90	The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will not oppose the adoption of the law. Of course, there is always a fundamental question as to whether we need a new amendment to the law in order to be able to write an appropriate sub-law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry has decided to do so. I am of the opinion that it would probably make sense then, with certain general provisions of this matter, to regulate, but the government here followed the opinion of its legislative service. It is a pity that we also have to adopt this law after a reduced procedure, even though it is a directive that has been in force for some time and is actually substantive to the law, which has already been passed, as if when we adopted this law we did not think clearly enough. The second dilemma that arises in this law, however, relates to how much this law will entail additional costs, additional burdens and what will be the final effect. That's not what the government's talking about. We have a feeling that technocrats are afraid to write a rule, so they need a new change of law. But you have proposed this law, we will not object to the adoption of the law, but we assess that it is possible to arrange this information in any other way and also to ensure separate recording of various activities. Let me remind you, yesterday we changed or we have a new law on auditing. These issues can also be settled slowly with appropriate accounting standards, as is the case in normal countries, especially in some countries that are listed as comparable examples. You have decided to have a new agency instead of an audit institute, a new bureaucracy and I feel as if the data on the financial elements arising from the recording of various activities were to be searched through the philosophy of the administrative procedure, then everything must be prescribed. In this way, I believe that the Slovenian legislation will have to be refined further in precisely unnecessary bureaucratic, technocratic procedures resulting mainly from people's ignorance or some fear of technocratism, so that they do not get by the fingers, because it has done something after it is called healthy farming logic, but not in accordance with the administrative procedure. So much for the government's representatives to think about. Today we are adopting many laws of the Ministry of Finance. I regret that, even in this law, the professional representatives of the Ministry of Finance or at least the competent minister, the competent secretary of State, are here again representing the cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Government, as if the Minister of Finance in Slovenia were no longer present. Responsibilities for the enforcement of this law, additional burdens you will accept and you will have to bear alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by fellow Member Cyril Testen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! In the New Slovenia Group, we respect the directives adopted by the European Union because we have accepted the obligation to harmonise Slovenian legislation with that which applies to the Member States. Slovenia has received quite a few reminders from the European Commission so far because of the non-compliance of the legislation and the violations of the rules that should be transposed into our legal order. In addition, in the New Slovenia Group, under the European acquis in the field of public finances, we advocate consistent respect for all legislation, as we believe that appropriate transparency will be ensured in accordance with the principles of modern society in the management of public funds. The purpose of precise legal regulation of accounting rules and balance sheet law is to ensure that financial data on the situation and business of economic operators are as transparent and comparable as possible. Legal protection must be provided to both shareholders in companies as well as creditors and others who enter into a wide variety of legal and commercial relations with these economic operators. The proposal for a law will provide for a precise definition of when individual entities operate on the basis of public funds and when they operate on the basis of market activities. This allocation will mean that it separates the records on which it will also have to report if it exceeds the amount of EUR 10 million. In order to update the systems, a more rational way of reporting via the online application is also introduced as a novelty in the bill. Modern technology allows fast, simple and cheap access to various data and information. This will make it possible to report at lower cost, record keeping and automatic retrieval of data that is changing daily. Thus, according to the new law, the data to be recorded in the online application will be considered as part of the records to be kept by the authorities and businesses in accordance with the Law on Transparency of Financial Relations and the separate recording of various activities. We welcome the functional systems and the implementation of the innovations that bring improvements to our space in the New Slovenia Group of Members, so we will also support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We have ended by presenting the views of individual parliamentary groups. And since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am also concluding a second reading of the bill. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, the decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote or half an hour after the adjournment of the 29th item of the agenda. Until then, I'm breaking this point. We're moving to 33. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the annual plan for the disposal of non-removable assets of the State in individual terms of over EUR 300,000 for State administrations and for judicial authorities for the year 2008. I'd like to inform you that we have 45 minutes of time available for this point. The proposal for a decree was also submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly, and I give the floor to the representative of the Government. There's a mag with us. Roman Rep, Secretary of State, Ministry of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members! We have a decision to complete. As the title itself originates in accordance with the Real Estate Act and also in accordance with the Regulation, they have both been adopted last year, but they suggest that for that real property, where it is worth more than 300,000 euros, you are adopting an annual plan here in Parliament. In this specific addition, 16 properties are involved. The indicative value of the total set is around 11.3 million euros, in particular, if we look at it, it is two plots totalling EUR 946,000 and six business premises estimated at around 7 million euros, and eight other buildings with a value of EUR 3.5 million. These other entities are former border crossings at the internal border, we represent Schengen, only, of course, remove this border, and this property of the state, because we no longer need it, of course, we are giving it for a new purpose. It must be said that all these properties are therefore assessed as unnecessary and would represent an additional burden on the country, and this is why we have included them in this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Drago Koren, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u96	Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greeting to the Members and Members of Parliament, the representative of the Government! At its 45th meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered a proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decree on the annual plan for the use of state-owned immovable property of more than EUR 300,000 for State administrations and judicial authorities for 2008 submitted for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the beginning, Minister Gregor Virant said that in 2007 the law on the real estate of the State, the provinces and the municipalities and the regulation on the real estate of the State, the provinces and the municipalities which have reorganized the procedure for the adoption of annual plans for the real estate of the State and for the distribution of their powers of admission between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decree includes those properties owned by the Republic of Slovenia that are not permanently used by any of the state's real estate managers for the performance of their duties, and individual operators have concluded that their economic use cannot be guaranteed either by renting or by other means of their exploitation and that the optimum effects of real estate management can be achieved solely by selling them on the market or by free transfer of property rights in accordance with the law. In addition to the decree, 16 properties are included, with a total indicative value of EUR 11 million, 383 thousand 838. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of this service and said that there was no indication in the proposal for a decision on any real estate of its status whether it was in use or not. Therefore, the representative of the applicant further explained that only those properties which operators do not permanently need to carry out their activities are included in the annual plan, thus making all the properties included in the draft decision permanent and not used by the operators themselves. All property included in the proposal for a decree is "not in use" because it is a property that is no longer permanently used by the real estate managers of the State for their activities. The proposal for a decree also received a positive opinion from the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation. The members of the Committee did not discuss the decision and no amendments were tabled. The Committee, however, adopted all the articles of the draft decision. It also adopted an opinion proposed to the National Assembly that the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Regulation on the annual plan for the disposal of fixed assets of the State at individual levels of more than EUR 300,000 for public administrations and for judicial authorities for 2008 should be adopted in the present text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, as you can see, we're obviously on duty in society today. We have before us the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the annual real estate management plan of over EUR 300,000. Since the rules of the game say that we must also take such a decision, of course it is right to have it before us and to read it. So far, we have heard some comments made by law enforcement workers and have also received an answer to them. It is also clear from the examination itself which objects are these that these are clearly the objects that are being sold. It is therefore clear that they are sold for entry into the Schengen area and so on. Business premises and land are also clearly defined. Of course, the logical thinking of the state is that if it does not need to sell it at a fair market price. I also hope and believe that, on the basis of other legal provisions, these values have also been assessed by the authorised national evaluators. I would like to add a comment by the Slovenian National Party that it might not be necessary, in such a decision, or at least information, to provide an indicative direction where these assets, which will be obtained by sale, will be paid or, for what purposes, will be obtained by the sale of land and facilities that this country no longer needs, what will we do with these funds. Such a review would be very welcome for all Members and Members of the National Assembly, because we will then also clearly think and decide further, regardless of the fact that both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, as well as the Ministry of Health, sells several buildings and land. I believe and know that, on the other hand, they will need new real estates, new land and therefore it would be good to know how much of these assets or whether these assets will be earmarked for new investments in these ministries or will be spent elsewhere. This is how we would like to know and see this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by colleague Mitja Ljubeljšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. The Law on Real Property of the State, the Provinces and the Municipalities, adopted in 2007, which regulates the real estate plans of the State, the provinces and the municipalities. The law provides for a procedure for the adoption of an annual plan for the real estate of the State and also defines the powers shared between the Government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular in the work relating to the adoption of this plan. The law clearly limits powers to the value of EUR 300,000. For the property of the State, the authorities of the State and the judicial authorities prepare for individual real estates below 300 000 euros the annual way of disposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and the proposal is adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government. This is a two-step procedure, which means a sense of responsibility in the handling of state property, especially when it comes to the transport of state property. The content of Article 11 of the Law on Real Property of the State, which states that for bodies that are not administrative and not legal courts, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Constitutional Court, the Court of Auditors, the Ombudsman, the Court of Human Rights, has adopted an annual deployment plan for the National Assembly, regardless of the value. This proposal for 2008 will provide for amendments and supplements to the 2007 decision on the annual asset management plan. The decree covers land and buildings. The values are determined on the basis of the valuation. We support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u101	Thank you, too. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u102	Your Honor! At the Liberal Democracy Club, we are committed to rid the country of all unnecessary assets and to those funds for purposes that are of priority and which will also be easier to control. After all, we have here a list of some surplus property that the Government doesn't even know or wants to say whether it's in use or if it's going to alienate something because it's not in use. The legal and legal service warns, and the government representatives say, "Ah, because we will change this regulation, which is lifeless, and before that we will change the act." This question is raised very legitimately, even because this decree was adopted at the end of last year and it did not last four months what you convinced us to do in November and December. It is a rather reckless planning, and I believe that in November and December of last year, the Government - or individual authorities - knew which facilities it would not need, because it probably did not have them in use at the time. But you don't even want to present this to the public. I am therefore surprised by this ease of rejecting the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, in order to answer, however, the question of which property is in use, whether it is rational to separate it or not. You have made a list, it is quite understandable that those facilities that are at the former border with Italy, Austria and Hungary are no longer used for border control purposes to be estranged, and that is quite appropriate. It is a few other things, however, which are questionable and should be further substantiated. It does not need to be emphasized how happy it is for some ministers and some departments to just order hundreds of thousands of euros to some users, to just alienate a property and then find that it was a mistake, although it was obviously a conscious act, and then the bad consequences had an impact on the fact that some of the decisions taken in this universe have been rectified. This question, how, in what way do you now want to sell some things, also appears in some light of time. Today is June 18, 2008, and the end of the mandate will be September 21st. If you want to make calls, if you want to make a transparent sale of this property, you will do so when the government's holiday is closed, the government may not be closed for a month this year, but until now it has always been. And the question is, why are you in such a hurry right now? You didn't think it was necessary to sell it in December, and now you want to sell it in a few months. But, as we say, we support that everything on the list that has been unsuspecting, which has been on the list for years and years to sell or replace, or free transfer to municipalities and other bodies that could use it better and more rationally - that is certainly right. However, in each case, it is necessary to ask whether everything is really set so as to make the best withdrawal, so that the most rational things will be redistributed. After all, some of the things that have just happened now in the accounts of the Ministry of Public Administration and are being dealt with through the Committee on Internal Policy, regardless of the real consequences, for the financial consequences to which the Financial Ministry and the Government, in particular, should give their opinion as such. Because if all other things are dealt with by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which are related to finance, then it would be right to do so as well. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will also be presented this time by colleague Drago Koren. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Let me say that the Members of New Slovenia will support this change in the decree. Nor do we mind changing it, given that this decree was adopted at the end of last year, for we live in a country, a land that is alive. I am sure that such a decree will always have to be adopted at least once or twice a year. Because time runs and brings new facts and new things, it also brings new unnecessary things that need to be sold or otherwise disposed of. The Law on Real Property of the State, the Provinces and the Congregations regulates in a uniform manner plans to deal with the real property of the country, the provinces and the municipalities. The law also lays down acts of acquisition and disposal of real property of the state of self-government of local communities and also regulates procedures for the adoption of an annual real estate management plan. In accordance with the principle of a good master, the Republic of Slovenia must treat its property well and economically, with all due care. I think a special emphasis is needed here. We should all really be aware of that. I hope on behalf of New Slovenia, however, to say that usually the country is not a very good host and does not behave accordingly with its properties. That is why in New Slovenia we assess and think it is important that the country actually sells all those properties that it does not need. We all know that such properties are only one great expense, and for which there is usually no money in the country. In this Slovenian history, for example, the real estate of the Ministry of Defence, including housing, such properties that would require large maintenance resources if they wanted to remain in a satisfactory state; that they were not needed to operate, and therefore it is right to sell such assets and such cases. Even in my immediate vicinity, such as in Topolšica, the Ministry of Health is the owner of two buildings, which I can say that for at least 15, 20 years they have only collapsed, are empty, are not maintained, are only causing great damage. Therefore, I must say that I am very happy to support such a decision when the state wants to sell off all those extra estates or in any other way surrender them. For I am aware that such a property can be only a great burden. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we believe that the State must act economically and therefore we also support the amendment of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by colleague Marjan Drofenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u106	Dear Vice President! Dear Secretary of State! Member of Parliament and several Members of Parliament! Good-bye! The Law on Real Property of the State, the Provinces and the Municipalities regulated the procedure for the real estate of the State and divided the powers between the Government and the National Assembly. In this way, the National Assembly adopts annual plans for the country's fixed assets for public administrations and judicial authorities of more than 300,000 euros per year. We therefore have before us a proposal to complement the annual deployment plan. These are additions to those property owned by the Republic of Slovenia that none of the state's real estate managers permanently needs to manage their tasks. As regards these properties, individual operators have concluded that their economic use cannot be ensured either by renting or by other means of exploitation and that the optimum effects can be achieved solely by selling them on the market or by free transfer of ownership rights. Therefore, we will support this proposal in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to supplement the decision without reservation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u107	Thank you very much. With your presentation, we are also finished with the presentations of positions. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body this time, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the decision itself in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, which means that we will vote today, half an hour after the end of the 29th agenda. I also interrupt this agenda until then. And we're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, it's a defense proposal for a law amending the general administrative procedure. The hearing shall take place on short notice. We have 50 minutes at our disposal for this point. This time, too, the draft law was forwarded to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration, and this time it will also be mag. Roman Rep, Secretary of State, presented the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Member and Members! Very briefly in three sentences. This is a very short change that will have a beneficial or positive effect in simplifying or removing unnecessary obstacles that we face in the daily work of the state administration. Indeed, it is a matter of abolishing the professional examination for those officials who carry out simple administrative procedures. Indeed, the General Administrative Procedure Act in Article 214 clearly defines the cases involved. These are mainly procedures that have already been resolved following pre-requisite forms, the so-called "terrorist jokes", which do not require any serious procedural tasks envisaged by the General Administrative Procedure Act. The change itself means that we will be able to train staff working in these specific jobs to work in a concrete manner and thereby eliminate this unnecessary professional examination for this category, as the professional examination remains an obligation for other administrative procedures that do not fall within this category. The Government, however, will further clarify the procedures in question by means of the relevant regulation and will also provide for a list in which cases this exemption applies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has been given a hearing on that law and will therefore present the report to the chairman of the Committee, colleague Drago Koren. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law amending the law on general administrative procedure was considered by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its 45th meeting, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia after a reduced procedure by the National Assembly, and the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be examined following a reduced procedure. At the outset, Minister Gregor Virant said that the proposed amendment removes the obligation to carry out a professional examination from the administrative procedure for managing and deciding in simple administrative matters. However, in order to resolve the doubts raised in these cases, the Government will explicitly state the matter by regulation. The draft law was given a written opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which concludes that there are no comments on the proposed text. The Committee also took note of the written opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which also concluded that the Commission supported the proposal. Members and members of the committee did not discuss the law. They voted on all the articles of the bill and also adopted them. As no amendments were tabled and adopted to the draft law in the second reading at the home labour body, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice to the National Assembly proposes that the proposal for a law amending the law on general administrative procedure be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the SNS.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u112	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues! Yes, it is good that the proposal for a law amending the law on general administrative procedure has seen the light and will be useful not only to the competent ministry, but also to all institutions in the country, Republic of Slovenia, to which this law is bound; I mean both municipalities and administrative units. The main solution to this law is to abolish the obligation to carry out a professional examination under the administrative procedure for the management and decision-making of simple administrative matters provided for by the Government. The explanation is very clear and understandable, but from here on out we need to be - those who know what can be complicated in procedures need to be a little more careful. So, first question, which are simple administrative matters. And when we read the law and this article, or these two articles, we find that these are matters that the Government is setting out by a regulation; hence, the Government does not yet provide them, they will be laid down by a regulation. Furthermore, if we read the interpretation to Article 1, we find; the Government says that the Government will adopt a general act explicitly defining such matters in order to resolve the doubts which the administrative matters correspond to those criteria. This will clearly determine in which exceptional cases there will be no need for an expert examination from the administrative procedure. So the government will adopt a general act. Now, is this regulation - that is, that regulation, which is mentioned a little bit earlier - or what this general act is and when will this general act be adopted by the Government to make it clear clearly what they have done. We can also see below that these tasks are already defined, i.e. as those tasks that require, I will be more specific, actions in the management and decision-making process of simple administrative matters already under the current regime are managed by public officials with secondary or general education. Now, also this definition of general education - it would be advisable, specifically recommended, what this general education means in this context. The next question is whether this means, in fact, that there is already one framework for a regulation to say that all administrative tasks for which secondary or general education is required do not need to be subject to a legal examination, whatever the case. Article 2 of this Act is very important, which states that the law will enter into force by publication in the Official Journal. In this case, the Slovenian National Party reminds the Government that before publication it is necessary to make or adopt a regulation or make a list. So much so that we do not first publish in the Official Journal that the law will enter into force later, it would be clear that the employees in the municipalities and administrative units are much more sensitive and would also like to look for holes in their own home where they are or when they do not have to perform the exam, which, as far as I know, is not as simple and simple as it sounds. As much as the Secretary of State has pointed out to me, this regulation or this general act has already been prepared. Therefore, this bill will be supported by the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Comrade Ljubeljšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The law is short and clear and speaks of the mandatory management of the administrative examination. Under the applicable legislation, that examination must be carried out by all persons performing acts in administrative proceedings, irrespective of the difficulty or complexity of the acts. The proposal for amendments under consideration provides that simple actions in administrative matters do not require an administrative examination. In order to avoid misunderstandings and disputes which can be handled as simple in administrative proceedings, the Government will prepare and adopt a general act in which precise, explicitly defined matters which fall within a less difficult and do not require an administrative examination. Since the proposed content represents simplification, we support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u115	Thank you very much. My colleague, although I should not normally, I will release Members who are not present and I will not appoint them, and I will also ask if the Group of Members wishes to replace that which represents the view that this should come forward. [[...]] I won't take any further complaints into consideration. Thank you. Mr Drago Koren will present the position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u116	Good afternoon! It is true that the bill is very short to have, I would almost hope to say, just one article, because the second article only says when it will enter into force. I don't think the content of the law is as irrelevant as the length of Article 1. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the proper functioning of public administration in a modern country is crucial and only quality staff can ensure the good and successful functioning of such an administration. I hope to say that many things have been done in this mandate, which put this public administration in a better place than they used to, that many administrative obstacles are being overcome, that the actual state administration is much more friendly to both people and, for example, the economy, to legal persons and so on. We have also discussed the Law on Public Servants, where we have also abolished certain matters of professional examination. Now, in the General Administrative Procedure Act, we are putting an end to those most difficult matters. It is clear to us in the New Slovenia Group that this is a matter for which it is a matter, because the existing law already states in article 214 what these simple changes are, and if the law makes more precise reference to these matters, which will not be subject to this ZUP examination, it will be all the more clear. The Law on Administrative Procedure is a very demanding law and a very important law, I would say, it is a constitution for all administrative workers. It seems unnecessary and pointless for us to be able to absorb such extensive matter, knowing all those who do not really need to know in their work. And simple administrative procedures are actually such actions. It is automatic procedures, it is a matter of roles accepted by the official at the computer window, when the programme itself instructs him and produces the necessary things, and it is therefore not reasonable for the State to spend all administrative staff on the ZUP courses and then to send them to these professional examinations. That is why, as I said before, we will support this amendment of the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u117	Thank you very much. And colleague Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u118	Dear Vice President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished Members of Parliament, a nice greeting! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we agree that the applicable law on general administrative procedure in a particular part lays down disproportionate conditions for the conduct of the least demanding administrative procedures. It does not seem to us to be the most reasonable thing for officials who conduct the simplest administrative procedures to meet the conditions for management and decision-making in the administrative procedure to always pass the professional examination of the administrative procedure. In our view, a professional examination is not necessary for the management and decision of the least difficult matters, such as, for example, the receipt of applications for the issuing of a ID card, passport or the like. It is a matter of matters in which it is involved or one or more parties and no one objects to the request made and the client’s request is usually always accepted. They have already carried out actions in the management and decision-making process in simple cases by public servants with secondary or general education, which confirms the relative non-requirement of procedural actions. It seems to us that the Government is adopting a general act to define precisely which administrative matters are simple. This will eliminate the doubts which fit the criteria and which do not. As a result of this, the Act amending the General Administrative Procedure Act will be supported by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Yelen. [[He's quitting.]] We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As this time the mother's working body has not adopted any amendments, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. We will decide on the law today in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly, half an hour after the adjournment of the 29th agenda. Until then, I'm breaking this agenda. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, summary procedure. We have at our disposal 40 minutes to deal with this point. The government has also taken over the text's authorization this time, and State Secretary Roman Rep will present the report to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is the last time I'm here today. Very briefly. Three years ago, the project All in one place, the main purpose of which was to simplify procedures in this country, concentrate them and allow all future economic operators to do these tasks in one place when registering their businesses. The project is adequately electronically supported by allowing new companies to be registered online or electronically. The key innovation this year is that we have not only tied this to independent entrepreneurs, but also extended it to all other companies. This also has a significant direct impact on the competitiveness of the economy, as this significantly reduces administrative procedures and facilitates the registration of future companies. Let me say in three words what are the key shifts or key changes. It was certainly the first step that we brought together the Registry of Court and the Business Register. Another very important step was that, as I mentioned earlier, we have made possible a comprehensive procedure in electronic form, from proposing all the necessary applications to forms and so on. And the key point is that we tried to lower the costs on each segment, so that, for example, we also cancelled the publication of the entries in the Official Journal; today we are doing so for the future economy of Apes. The purpose of the amendment of the law is to describe in a comprehensive manner, in a more transparent and simpler way, all of these procedures, in one place, and thus to regulate an appropriate legal basis, which, if adopted today, will be even more transparent and more understandable than it has been so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u121	Thank you very much. So, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice will present its position, President Drago Koren, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u122	The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register was also addressed by our committee at its 45th meeting, 4.6.2008. In the beginning, the Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, said that the proposal for a law was a result of experience in the use of new information solutions that had been implemented by the amendment of the Law on the Court Register. The bill fully regulates the basic institutes of the system All in one place. The VEM system shall include adequate support for the procedures necessary for the comprehensive regulation of new information solutions used in the registration procedures in the Registry and other procedures to be carried out in order to ensure the conditions for the entry into service of an entrepreneur or an economic company, or in relation to subsequent amendments, so that the entrepreneur or the partner can carry out all such procedures simultaneously. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the written comments of this service to Articles 2 and 3 were taken into account, with the amendments tabled, while the comment to Article 6 was explained orally. The draft law was also given a positive opinion by the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation. The members of the committee did not discuss the draft law. Amendments to Articles 2 and 3 of the coalition SDS, NSI, SLS and DeSUS have been tabled and the two amendments have also been adopted. The Committee also voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the complementary draft law in which the amendments are incorporated is prepared and this amended bill is also an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Kovačič will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, colleagues, colleagues, the representative of the government! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Group supports the proposed amendment to the Judicial Register Act. The VEM system is a system that allows entrepreneurs and businesses to carry out all administrative procedures related to the start of business or to subsequent changes to do so in one place. So this system is now a well-established system, which means the fulfillment of the government's forecast set by it in its anti-birocratic programme. Since this system also includes adequate support for the procedures necessary for registration in the Register of Justice, it is necessary to amend or supplement the Register Act accordingly. The proposed amendment therefore regulates the basic elements of the VEM system. The Slovenian Democratic Party is very successful in removing administrative obstacles, and this success is also visible in combining the Court and Business Registry, as well as in combining and simplifying the various procedures as well as official records. As it is said, Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party support the law under consideration and look forward to the achievements of the Government's anti-biocratic programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Colleague [[...]] Comrade Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u126	Respectable. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, as it is a matter of comprehensive regulation of the basis, integration and integration of information systems, which will enable more efficient and more user-friendly procedures. We are pleased that it will be possible for entrepreneurs and members of society to submit applications, proposals and other applications for the relevant entries in the register in accordance with the law governing the register. Other procedures to be carried out to ensure the conditions for the start-up of an entrepreneur or an economic company are also included. In particular, we support the main solution introduced by the proposal for a law, namely the comprehensive regulation of the core institutions of the VEM system - all in one place. It is therefore a project that has brought together all the administrative and other procedures related to the start-up of an economic company. A large number of institutions serving this purpose are now united in the VEM entry point, where customers will be able to arrange everything necessary for the start-up of an economic society. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support a solution that will enable entrepreneurs to register quickly without the cancellation of any verification. Therefore, it is not a matter of facilitating the conditions for entry into economic activity, but rather of simplifying procedures and thus making the way faster in entrepreneurship. We will also support the bill in the parliamentary group because it seems important to us all for the competitiveness of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Yelen will present the position of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues. Secretary of State. In the implementation of the Judicial Register Act, in particular in the work relating to information systems and the single VEM entry point - all in one place, it has been shown that the basic law will have to be more comprehensively regulated with a view to a more efficient and more friendly implementation of these procedures. Accordingly, the paper proposes a clearer definition of the legal basis for the implementation of the so-called VEM procedures, which allow for simplification of procedures, faster and more cost-effective treatment, which undoubtedly has a positive impact on the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. We support such a system in the DeSUS Group as it allows entrepreneurs or partners to carry out all the procedures necessary to ensure the conditions for entry into operation at the same time in one place. In doing so, the applicant has consistently taken into account the principle of the public record as the principle of the protection of the personal data of the registration entity, so that in our belief there will be no abuse or violation of the principle of the protection of personal data. The proposed novels are consistently and clearly governed by the basic institutes of the VEM system, and therefore the DeSUS Members will contribute their vote to the adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u129	Thank you. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Ambassador Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, on 1 February 2008, entered into force of the first novel; it incorporated the Registry of the Court of Justice into the Business Register, providing conditions for the electronic submission of applications for registration into the electronic management of the Collection Sheets and allowing the publication of the entry in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia on public websites. The achievement that we have just heard has entered into force on 1 February needs a regulated legal relationship. This legal relationship is to be addressed by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, which we are talking about today. This proposal is intended to provide a comprehensive framework for the integration and integration of information systems and to fully regulate the core institutes of the VEM system or system All in one place. The principle of the public is guaranteed to everyone. This means that everyone's data will be entered in the court register. And another important principle of the design effects of the entries. This principle applies to all those entries for which the ZGD provides that they shall take legal effect by entering the relevant register. We assess in the Slovenian National Party that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register has completed the amendment and, of course, we will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u131	Thank you very much. In conjunction with the 17th item on the agenda, we have made presentations on the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled to the amended bill this time, I conclude with a second reading of the bill. I thank the Secretary of State for his participation. We will, however, decide on the bill in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the adjournment of the 29th item of the agenda. Until then, I'm breaking this agenda. And we're moving on to 12. Period - This is another defence proposal for a law on the temporary prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants under the ordinary procedure. We have an hour and five minutes for this point. However, the draft law was tabled by a member of Parliament, Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that it adopts a decision that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. For the microphone, I invite the Vice-President of the Committee, Mrs Marjetko Uhan, to explain further the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello to all of you who are accompanying this session. At its meeting on 5 June, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the proposal for a law on the temporary prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants, submitted by Mr Zalokar Orazem to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption. The representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Agriculture for Forestry and Food, the Law and Legal Service and the Agricultural and Economic Chamber of Slovenia also participated in the meeting of the Committee in addition to the proposer of the bill. As material, members of the Committee received a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, an opinion from the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. No one has tabled amendments within a set time limit. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposal of the law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and in terms of a legislative technical aspect. It noted that there was a lack of indication or that, on the basis of the sources cited, it was not possible to prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in this way. The Committee was also given a written opinion by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which opposes the proposal for a law because the provisions of the bill are very general, unconformed and the law, if adopted, would be contrary to the legal order of the European Union, whose fundamental principle is to ensure the free movement of goods on the Community market, and in accordance with Article 14 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, Member States of the European Union should not be allowed to take measures which would prohibit or restrict the free movement of goods in any way or impede the operation of the common market. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which also does not support the proposal for a law. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment and Space also cited legislation providing that Member States should not prohibit, prevent, prevent or restrict the placing on the market of products which comply with these rules, except those which are also defined by the rules cited. The representative of the Ministry of Economy and Food, however, explained on the question of the proposer when government laws on genetically modified organisms would be submitted to the legislative procedure, that the drafting of the bill lasted a year and a half, and that the support of NGOs, the European Commission, had to be obtained and was recently approved, which is why it is now in the inter-departmental coordination of the Government and will be submitted to the National Assembly in a short time. A representative of the Chamber of Agriculture and Economy of Slovenia also participated in the discussion, who said that due to the incomplete text, the Chamber does not support this law. In the next debate, MEPs and Members discussed the draft law. Some members of the Committee felt that, despite legal and professional shortcomings, the proposal was still to be adopted because there was currently a gap in this area. While most members of the Committee considered the shortcomings of the proposed text to be such that it could not be improved by additions, the issue of genetically modified organisms is more professional, extensive and difficult than presented in the proposed text. Finally, it was concluded that the proposal for a law prohibiting the production of genetically modified plants was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u133	Thank you, too. We also have Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem as her proposer. Please provide an introductory explanation of the bill and present your position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The law before us, on behalf of the Zares Group, was tabled because of irregularities in the introduction and cultivation of genetically modified plants in Slovenia and the cultivation of these plants for commercial purposes. Thus, we can say that there is an irregular state in this area, without control, disorderly and unregulated. Without technical and administrative and economic measures, emergency safety belts, we do not have a regulated register, information and, last but not least, the area of compensation if there is any damage due to the cultivation of genetically modified plants. Thus, we can finally only guess and wait with fear whether genetically modified plants are already present in our fields. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we have considered that it is necessary to adopt a temporary ban on the cultivation of genetically modified plants in order to avoid the possible negative consequences that may be catastrophic and cannot be fully remedied later on. This prohibition, temporary, should apply until the adoption of an appropriate law on the coexistence of genetically modified plants. Although they have drafted such a law at the Ministry of Agriculture, they have mostly been aligned with the non-governmental sphere, but unfortunately we have not been able to harmonise it in the European Union for more than a year. At the beginning of May, it is expected to have an appropriate green light for further consideration, but the law is still in the parliamentary procedure. For our very vague reasons, but obviously there has been some confusion within the Government, and we can say with great certainty, but unfortunately also with concern and disappointment, that we will probably not be able to adopt the law in this mandate in Parliament. This may mean another year of irregularity. Why is this so disturbing? Slovenia is an extremely biodiversity-rich country, as we have declared quite 35% of our territory a Natura 2000 area. This needs to be protected and preserved, with the ecological function of agriculture important. Our characteristic is also a large fragmentation among the land of farms. Therefore, the simultaneous possibility of traditional and organic farming, together with the cultivation of genetically modified plants, is probably not possible at all. Therefore, protection belts are required. The temporary ban on genetically modified plants is an urgent protection of organic, integrated and traditional farming, and we have already written in our national agricultural strategy that we will increase the volume of organic production and land by organic production. Unfortunately, all this remains a dead letter on paper, as our organic farmers all through warn that they are not treated equally within Slovenian agriculture. Unfortunately, we still think and act as if the only way to produce enough food in intensive farming, but at the same time also requires the mass use of plant protection products, which we know about and which negative consequences we have been talking about lately. Therefore, the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture in the Zares Group are once again called upon, so to speak, to immediately submit to Parliament the law on the coexistence of genetically modified plants in agriculture and that the ruling coalition will do its utmost, perhaps by calling for an extraordinary meeting, to adopt it in this mandate. Believe me, it's urgent and urgent. We are obliged to do this for our protection and protection of our ecological farming, our unspoiled nature and environment and the earth, and in the good reputation of our country as the heavens on earth, as President Bush of the United States said when he visited, for all of this has already been lost in his country, when they have completely released the cultivation of genetically modified plants. We, I hope, however, in Slovenia are obliged to leave our descendants a different legacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to Minister Podobnik, the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the position to the proposal for a decision of the working body. Minister Janez Podobnik, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! A respected billmaker! The Government authorised me to brief the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a law prohibiting the production of genetically modified plants submitted to the National Assembly by Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. The Government's proposal for a law in the first place notes that the provisions of the law are very general and that some solutions are therefore inconsistent. This would constitute difficulties in implementing the law, in particular in monitoring and sanctioning under this law. The Government also notes that the proposal for a law on the legal system is flawed and, in some cases, inaccurate, since it does not specify, inter alia, which plants are considered to be genetically modified plants, nor does it lay down infringements, sanctions for infringements of the provisions of the law, nor do the competent authorities. On the other hand, the Government notes that if the law were adopted, it would be contrary to the EU acquis, whose fundamental principle is to ensure the free movement of goods on the Community market. To sum up the thought expressed by the President of the Committee on Agriculture, in accordance with Article 14 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, EU Member States are not allowed to take measures which would prohibit or restrict the free movement of goods in any way or impede the operation of the common market. The legislation in the field of genetically modified organisms applicable in the EU for placing such organisms on the market, if I mention the 2000 Directives of the European Council and the 2003 Regulation, provides that the EU Member State must not prohibit, prevent, prevent or restrict the placing on the market of products which comply with those rules, except in the case of exceptions which these rules also define. As regards the implementation of the law on the coexistence of genetically modified plants with other agricultural plants, the proposer also, in her opening remarks on the decision of the parent working body, has already spoken about this, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has already started preparing a comprehensive regulation of the field of coexistence more than two years ago. This law will enable the implementation of Article 26a of the Directive of the European Council on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms and provides that Member States may take appropriate measures to prevent the unintentional presence of genetically modified organisms in other products. The drafting of the law has been a long time, but effective dialogue with key stakeholders has paid off, as the final draft law has not only the principle support of the competent European institutions, but also the key stakeholders at home in Slovenia. As I am aware, also the support of the Member of Parliament, who has tabled the proposal under consideration today. Over a year's time delay has been brought about by intense negotiations with the European Commission on proposed legal solutions in the specific notification procedure, which has recently been successfully completed. At this point, I can only say that the Government will endeavour to adopt the law in a timely manner so that the 2009 seed year could already be regulated by a new law on the coexistence of genetically modified plants with other crops. With regard to some of the applicant's statements, where it mentions similar prohibitions in other Member States, in these cases, the Government considers the prohibitions under Article 23 of the 2001 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms and the repeal of the Council Directives imposed by Austria, Germany, France, Luxembourg and Hungary. Article 23 of the Directive provides for the possibility for a Member State to temporarily restrict or prohibit the use or sale of an individual genetically modified organism authorised to place on the market of the European Union. However, only subject to the condition that, on the basis of new or additional information affecting the risk assessment or the reassessment of existing information in the light of new or additional scientific knowledge, it is assessed that the product or its use poses a risk to human health or the environment. The draft law under consideration does not comply with the requirements of this Article. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the proposal for a law on the legal system cannot be supported and therefore, in the opinion of the Government, is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u137	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Franz Sušnik will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u138	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Ladies and gentlemen. Our Group of Members, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, having examined the proposal for a law on the temporary prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants, has found that this law is weak, that the provisions of the proposal are very general and inconsistent, especially as regards the fact that control and sanction on the basis of a legal proposal is completely omitted. It seems particularly critical to us that the bill is completely contrary to the acquis of the European Union and that the adoption of this law would violate the fundamental principle of the European Community, which is the free movement of goods and services. We all know that, on the basis of the Treaty establishing the European Community, Member States of the European Union are not allowed to take exactly any measures contrary to this fundamental principle. In our view, too, the proposal for a law on the legal system is flawed, it does not contain a set of plants that would be considered genetically modified or genetically unchanged plants, nor does it specify offenders, as I have already said, nor does it provide for sanctions, but only three articles. However, the provision in Article 2 in practice means that the cultivation of genetically modified plants would be prohibited until all secondary sub-legislative acts are also issued on the basis of a law governing the coexistence of genetically modified plants with other agricultural plants. This is not in any case in line with the stated objectives of the proposal for a law that would allow or prevent the production of genetically modified plants into the environment during the period until the adoption of the law on the coexistence of genetically modified plants with other crops. In our parliamentary group, we are committed to more specificities in this area, and we will support, in our conviction, a transparent and systematic law that is being prepared, which has received support from NGOs as well as from the European Commission. Let me stress that Slovenia has recently obtained the European Commission's agreement that the text of this law is in line with European rules and that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has already forwarded it to inter-sectoral coordination. We will certainly make sure that this law is adopted in a timely manner, and certainly before the next seed campaign. We are confident that this law will regulate the issue in a comprehensive and qualitative manner. In our parliamentary group, we also note that the draft law on the temporary prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants cannot be supported due to the legal system aspect, because the provisions of this bill, if we can even call it that, are too large, too small. All of this could constitute difficulties in implementing, in particular in the part concerning, as I said before, the area of control and criminal sanctions, and in complying with the adopted Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organs of 2005 and the 2001 Directive already cited and the 2003 Regulation. For those reasons, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group supports the decision of the home working body, which states that the proposal for a law on the temporary prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Well welcomed on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. The proposal for a law on the temporary prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants in Slovenia is very meaningful, as we cannot, however, subordinate the operation and organisation of life in Slovenia simply to the principle of free movement of goods as prescribed by the European Union, since this free movement of goods also has a number of exceptions, a number of options, taking into account the specific situation in each country. And if a country has a specific agricultural situation, then surely Slovenia is one that could try to enforce this difference. The fact is that in Slovenia we have limited opportunities for agricultural areas. Many of these areas, especially the best ones, were also recently lost, either by the construction of motorways or by the expansion of settlements. The best agricultural land in Slovenia is very, very deficient and if we devote these lands to genetically modified plants, we can conclude very quickly that in Slovenia we no longer actually have our own plant species, which we want to protect in particular in the European Union. And it is quite unusual that, at the time when the Minister of Environment and Space announces in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia the extension of the Natura 2000 area, this extension declares it completely without the behaviour of both the public and the municipalities, at the same time does not seek to produce an analysis on the basis of which a security reservation for the production of genetically modified plants in Slovenia could be established. The fact is that already more than 33% of the Slovenian area in Natura 2000 is directly under the control of the European Union. This year we do not even know exactly how many additional areas were included in this Natura, but it was an extension so that we can talk about much larger areas. And yet there are no real approaches and steps to allow the Ministry of Environment and Space, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, to be able to do so much of the will and power to try, with the Slovenian profession, to justify a security reservation so that genetically modified plants in Slovenia do not begin to grow. Also, the fact that agricultural areas in Slovenia are extremely dispersed, this is also a specification that is known in Slovenia, we have many small plots, many small agricultural areas, and if you start growing a genetically modified plant on one of these, of course, it will also have an impact on the other surfaces. It is a completely uncontrollable intervention into nature, if we can call it, which, after it happens, can no longer be replaced by natural plants. And at a time when something can no longer be replaced by natural plants, we are dependent on multinationals, that is, capital that actually produces genetically modified plants, and I will also become nutritionally dependent on these multinationals. And not only the dependents of which genetically modified plants will allow us to grow them, that we will not, in our own words, be hungry, but also prescribe which plant protection products we will be able to use to make genetically modified plants work on our soils. And we really become completely dependent on capital then, and then the natural attributes are completely secondary. We therefore believe that it is better, however, that a law on the temporary prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants is adopted at this time, irrespective of the fact that it does not yet contain all the necessary provisions. However, when the Government comes in with its law, it can always write down in this law that the provisions of the proposed Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Processing of Genetically Modified Plants, which we are considering and are supposed to adopt today, cease to apply. For this reason, we will not support the conclusion of the parent working body, because we really want to express our concern about the overly volatile approach to the introduction of genetically modified plants in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by Ambassador Marjetka Uhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u142	The draft law that we have before us in Novi Slovenija will not be supported from the previously mentioned shortcomings. The proposal for a law that we have before us proposes a temporary ban on planting, production of genetically modified plants or crops, pending the implementation of the rules governing the coexistence of genetically modified plants with other genetically modified crops. As the main reason for the adoption of the law, the applicant points out that the legislation adopted in the field of genetically modified organisms in the European area is still insufficiently regulated, as it does not guarantee the prevention of pollution by genetically modified organisms, with the applicant referring to reports from independent organisations and completely lacking expertise. When reviewing the proposal for a law in New Slovenia, we find that the provisions of the bill are very general, inconclusive, which would mean that the proposed law cannot be implemented, since the proposal does not provide for essential, which is control and sanctioning. The law does not lay down any penalties for infringements of the provisions of the law, nor does it provide for the competent authorities to monitor it. On the other hand, we note that if the law were adopted, it would be contrary to the legal order of the European Union. The law is very flawed and inaccurate from a legal point of view because it does not define which plants are considered to be genetically modified plants or genetically modified crops, but only prohibits them altogether. Such a law, if adopted, would also prevent Member States of the European Union from taking appropriate measures to prevent the unintentional presence of genetically modified organisms in products, although its purpose should not be to interfere with the area of authorisation or prohibition of production, processing, placing on the market or use of genetically modified plants. Because of the proposed law in New Slovenia, we cannot support it because the provisions of the bill are, as we say, general and inconclusive. The parties are indeed proposing that the regulation of this area be left to the experts and that, instead of writing the laws themselves, the issue they would like to talk about be opened up in the National Assembly under a number of parliamentary options. However, we want to say that in New Slovenia we want to settle this area with a law that will be free from these shortcomings, which we listed in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Comrade Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u144	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament, nice greeting! The proposal proposes a temporary ban on the operation of genetically modified plants or crops, pending the implementation of the rules governing the coexistence of genetically modified plants with other genetically modified crops. As a reason for the adoption of the law, legislation adopted in the field of genetically modified organisms in the European area is still insufficiently regulated and does not guarantee the prevention of pollution by genetically modified organisms. We agree with this in part, but we believe that the professional field of genetically modified plants is much more extensive and complex than that presented in this law. We support the efforts of the applicants and all others who want to help regulate this area, and we share all the concerns with them, but the provisions of the bill are too general and inconclusive, which would only bring about further difficulties in implementing the law. We also agree with the Government's conclusion that the content of the law is essentially contrary to the legal order of the European Union, whose principle is to ensure the free movement of goods on the Community market. However, in accordance with Article 14 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, Member States must not modify measures which would prohibit or restrict the free movement of goods. This is also recalled by the Legislative and Legal Service when it refers in its opinion to the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities in the case of the Republic of Austria against the Commission of the European Community. The Republic of Austria failed with its intention to derogate from Directive 2001/18. The Commission of the European Community has also repeatedly pointed out that Member States cannot unilaterally adopt measures prohibiting the use of genetically modified organisms. On the Committee on Agriculture, a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food said, inter alia, that the preparation of a government proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms was in full progress for one and a half years, as the support of NGOs and the European Commission had to be obtained. Given that the European Commission has recently given its consent to this proposal for a law and that the bill we are discussing today is flawed and inconsistent, we will vote in the SLS Group against the proposal for a temporary ban on the production of genetically modified plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Member Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Once again, a nice hello to you all. As a bill-maker, I have already warned, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, that it is necessary to ask whether the coexistence of genetically modified plants and organic farming is even possible. We therefore believe that in Slovenia we should adopt, and we hope that, as we hear today, by the next seed season, the law on the coexistence of genetically modified plants in agriculture and under this law will be an extremely restrictive possibility of cultivation, perhaps even so much so that the cultivation of genetically modified plants will not be possible. The fact is that many European countries, as well as many scientists, are extremely skeptical and cautious in introducing genetically modified plants. The scientific consequences of the long-term use of genetically modified plants on human health, environmental impacts, earth, other plants and living organisms are certainly not sufficiently studied. The issue is in the hands of the largest multinationals in the globalised society, who are aiming at controlling global food production, seeds and at the same time plant protection products, and in the face of huge investments in this area, do not choose the means of penetration around the world. Regarding the consequences of the cultivation of genetically modified plants, I would like to point out that scientists are strongly separated. Even in Slovenia. Above all, it is dangerous that independent research is not carried out in this area, but in the vast majority more than 90% of the data, research is carried out under the auspices of these same nationals, who conceal and silence any critical voice in this regard. Therefore, a debate on how to treat genetically modified plants should also be opened in Slovenia. Although it is interesting that our citizens expressed the greatest opposition to genetically modified organisms among all Europeans this spring as part of the Eurostat survey. More than 80% of those polled were against it. This is also the opinion and position of 76 Slovene municipalities which have already declared their areas such without genetically modified plants as part of the Institute for Sustainable Development's action. The opposition was also expressed by more than 22,000 signatories to the petition that we handed over to the President of the Government and ministers, which we launched in the Zares Group, together with non-governmental organisations that encouraged us and later supported our efforts. We are aware of the fact that EU countries cannot prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants, but in our view our government should consider and join those groups of European countries - some have already been numbered by the Minister and should repeat - France, Austria, Switzerland, Poland, Hungary, Romania and so on, which have decided on a precautionary principle in this regard, and start actively by enforcing a security reservation which can also be applied by any country in the European Union on the basis of our own research and studies in accordance with the Directive if, on the basis of new facts, studies on environmental impacts, new research and knowledge, I quote the directive if, on the basis of this suspicion or is convinced of the harmful effects on the environment, animals and people. Finally, all our neighbours have moved along this path, so we cannot understand our passiveness, inactiveness in this area. In doing so, we would like to stress in particular that we do not really oppose research work in this area, especially in the field of medicine, where we expect important innovations for the benefit of humanity. Finally, I must point out that, according to my assessment, the shameful decision of the Committee on Agriculture, which at the time of the consideration of the law to representatives of non-governmental organisations who came to the meeting and wanted to present their views, drew attention to the issue and expressed their concerns by voting, they were prevented from explaining this to us. I think that this is a very shameful act, for it is a disgrace in this House, because it is the committee, including the Committee on Agriculture, where elected representatives of the people should be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We are Messengers and Messengers, listening to those for whom we are here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Yelen, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u148	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! The fact is that genetically modified organisms in the world have been emerging for good for 30 years and the widespread use and production of some genetically modified crops has been seen mainly in the last 13 years. The rapid spread of the use of genetically modified organisms has recently encouraged the global public to discuss the relevance and eligibility of their use. In principle, the majority opinion of the public is generally favoured by the use of genetically modified food, and it is particularly worrying that not even European policy is uniform in this area, as there is a wide variety of views between the European Commission, which is responsible for the authorisation of the introduction and transport of genetically modified plants and the European Parliament, which has already confirmed in several cases each national freezing of the use of certain types of such plants. Even scientists concerned by the field are not united in the safety of genetically modified food. Due to insufficient research into the interaction of genetically modified plants with natural nutrients, it is necessary to proceed with great care and discretion towards the introduction of unnatural organisms into the natural environment so that there will be no severe irreparable consequences as is the case today in the field of the use of a variety of plant protection products which are indeed authorised and their use has unfortunately proved harmful. The area of genetically modified organisms or genetically modified plants in our country is governed only by the Act on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms relating to the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms in a Closed System. Given that no Member State can completely prohibit the use or cultivation of genetically modified plants, since this would be contrary to existing European legislation, it is reasonable that, before the actual possibility of using and growing genetically modified plants outdoors is reached, Member States will regulate those areas which, in accordance with binding legislation, still constitute a legal void and their regulation will also be left to the Member States' domain, and that all those relationships that may prove problematic and harmful to those farmers who will not decide on the cultivation of genetically modified plants will be carefully and accurately. Given that the law is well-intentioned because the applicant tries to keep the cultivation of such plants in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia pending the adoption of legislation that will regulate the relationship between the growers of these and other plants in detail, it would be appropriate to support the idea. The moratorium on the cultivation of genetically modified plants in the outdoors or on the release of such plants into the natural environment is meaningful and necessary until the actual adoption and enforcement of the legal arrangements for outdoor cultivation, which should to the extent possible be adapted to the specifics of our natural protection environment, spatial and social conditions, and should, finally, be taken into account as a consensus of the general public, making it clear that there is still a need for high-quality democratic public debates. It is also necessary to follow all adopted national arrangements, such as the rural development programme, the Action Plan for the Development of Organic Agriculture in Slovenia and other documents and guidelines that call for general sustainable development. Of course, no one has overlooked the key shortcomings, which make it even more clear that the proposed suspension of the production of genetically modified plants due to this legal system-wide weakness of the law will not be supported. I should mention only the regret that the applicant has not addressed this deficiency, although it is true that we also doubt that this would change any other rejection of the government's position. In our view, too, the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about similar laws or themes, we need to look at it globally. I'll start with one piece of information. 129 is a cultural plant in our country in the Republic of Slovenia. Of this, about 85 are those who reproduce through pollination. Of these 85%, 35% of such plants are still used by humans for the food chain or so-called energy. We have adopted a very important law in this mandate. This is the law which, on the one hand, has adopted some restrictions in the context of the sale of plant protection products, but at the same time has pushed them very freely into the market. Without obstacles and without proper control. We're in a very similar situation today. In a situation where we speak, whether to relax in the completeness of the Slovenian market or Slovenian agriculture the cultivation of genetically modified organisms or not. I say that also European directives allowing the sale of genetically modified organisms are not 100 per cent binding on our country, even though we are a member of the European Union. If that were the case, we should have fully adopted other laws long ago and subordinated them to European directives, in the field of social protection, in the field of child protection. In the Lipa Group, we sent a call to Prime Minister Janez Janša, together with other opposition groups, to introduce a security reservation to genetically modified organisms. The fact is that we want and must prevent the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment during the period until the adoption of a suitable law on the coexistence of genetically modified organisms or plants with other crops. The current law on the treatment of genetically modified organisms summarizing the European Directive provides that the placing on the market of products which is in accordance with European Union rules is allowed in Slovenia without prohibition, without obstacles or restrictions. Slovenia may only use a security reservation. However, the President of the Government and the competent ministers were unable to reach or enforce the so-called security reservation. The proposaler's wish - and in this context we join her in the Lipa Group - is to prevent the negative consequences of cultivation of genetically modified organisms or plants and possible contamination of crops and to protect and preserve Slovenia's characteristic biodiversity. The key question that undoubtedly arises in this matter is how the food security of the Republic of Slovenia is or what food security in our country we want, need or want. At a time when someone controls food security, he also controls the nation as a whole, because this means a threat rather than an opportunity for our country. The use of genetically modified organisms raises concerns and fears about reducing food safety, destroying biodiversity, increasing the use of pesticides, developing super weeds that are practically resistant to all living things. In the Lipa Group we also draw attention to the fact that it has already committed itself to Slovenia, namely the fact that by 2025 we want to increase the number of eco-farms even to 25%. This way of producing healthy food, organic nutrition does not allow genetically modified organisms. This decision is therefore contrary to some of the commitments or guidelines to which the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself. There is no doubt that we support the proposal for a law tabled today in the Lipa Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We have also concluded with your presentation by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the proposal for a decision today in the framework of the vote half an hour after the adjournment of the 29th item. This also interrupts this agenda item. We're moving to 29. At the end of the day, this is the first defensively proposed law to prevent the consequences of mining in the mercury mine of Idria under the regular procedure. We have 2 hours and 45 minutes at our disposal for this point. The draft law was tabled by Mr Bevk. With regard to this bill, the group of 14 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Mirano Potræ requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the first floor to the bill's proposer, colleague Sam Bevk, for an additional explanation of the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Act on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Silver Mine Idria was passed in 1987. Its purpose was to protect the environment directly above the mercury mine after the end of centuries of mining and to protect the city of Idrija from the possession and other consequences of mining and to remedy these consequences. The law has regulated the relationship of common importance in relation to the gradual closure of the mine and has provided funds in the long term. On the basis of this law, the Government has adopted a mine closure programme, which is still under way today and is expected to end at the end of 2008. In 2004, the National Assembly, on my proposal, adopted a new law on the Idrija mine. This novel complemented or extended the purpose of the law for the recovery of mining damage and the removal of the consequences of mining on the health condition of former miners. It was also determined that after the mine was closed, it continued to maintain the watery part of the cave, monitor and maintain the museum mine and after 2006 change the mine activity. It was also important to provide that the State may, free of charge, transfer to the municipality the property that the mine will not need in order to maintain the un watered part of the cave and is used as a public good. On the basis of this law, last year the government adopted a programme for the maintenance of the indemnified part of the cave and monitoring after finished works for the period 2008-2012 and this year a new regulation on the transformation of the company. At the time of adoption of this Regulation, the Government's Law Service pointed out that in fact it was not only a change in the company's activity, which was referred to as the reason for the adoption of the regulation, but for more, in addition to extending the activity of the company's new name, the change in funding, the change in jurisdiction and the composition of the bodies, it highlighted the need for the legal regulation of that substance, as it expressed the view that such a way of setting up a company, i.e. a government regulation, was unusual. Notwithstanding this opinion, I have already decided that a new law should be adopted just before the physical closure of the mine, which will provide a legal basis for a whole range of new activities and provide security and ecological recovery in the city in the long term. The most important novelty in the law is that it newly includes compensation for limited use of space, means to remedy the consequences of ionising radiation and health care for residents, and also establishes an information and research centre for mercury. The mine will, after a new maintenance of the watery part of the cave, monitor the condition or monitoring, maintain the museum mine and facilities of technical heritage owned by it, and carry out tourism activities in this regard. It will carry out geodetic and mining services, laboratory services, research activities related to mercury and radiation, and education and public awareness of environmental problems. State budgets for 2008 and 2009 already provide funds for maintenance, monitoring and mining damage amounting to EUR 3 million 174 000. Following the adoption of the closure programme from 2010 to 2012, an additional 4 million €215,000 will be required. After 2009, additional resources will be provided under the new law to measure and ecologically rehabilitate facilities, which identified an increase in radon content of EUR 1 million, for health care of miners and residents per year of EUR 112 000, EUR 2 million and a half per year for additional mining damage not covered by the 1992 census, for the operation of a mercury information research centre of EUR 320 000 per year and EUR 4 million 200 000 per year as a compensation for limited use of space due to the consequences of long-term mining. The transfer of the real estate of the mercury mine to the local community, which has in fact already begun in recent years, will have no direct impact on the state budget. Given that I have only 5 minutes of time spent as a bill-maker, I will present further arguments for the adoption of the law in the discussion below. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the draft opinion. There's a mag with us. Tomaž Jeršič, State Secretary, Ministry of Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. As we have heard, the main purpose of the bill is to ensure and operate and finance the mine after 2008 and to transfer the assets to the municipality of Idrija. Articles 2 to 8 of the proposal set out the scope of the law and the organisation of the economic company Rudnik of mercury Idrija. Let me point out that all of these are already regulated by the Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia amending and supplementing the Regulation on the Conversion of Mercury Mines adopted to implement the law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the mercury mine. The funds to close the mine and to pay for mining damage are already provided in the 2008 and 2009 budget on the budget lines of the Ministry of Economy. Article 9 of the bill refers to the free transfer of property owned by the mine to the municipality of Idrija, which is already provided for in Article 12 of the current law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Mining of Mercury, following the regular liquidation procedure carried out. In view of all the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal because it considers that the proposal for a law is not necessary because the existing solutions in the rules adopted so far are more than appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Comrade Bojan Starman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. That's a nice hello to you all! The main purpose of the proposal for a law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the mercury mine of Idrija, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by Member Samo Bevk, is to ensure the operation and financing of the mine after 2008 and to regulate the possibility of transferring part of the state assets of the mercury mine of Idrija in closure, d.o.o., to the municipality of Idrija. As we have already heard from the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, all the solutions provided for by this law are practically already covered by existing legislation and allow for all of the possibilities provided for by this law, as well as the financing for closure, already provided for in the budget. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we do not see the need to support this law, because virtually all these matters, which are the subject of this law, are already resolved. We will therefore agree that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome once again on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The law on prevention of the consequences of mining in the mercury mine Idrija is certainly one of the laws that are extremely important for the further development of Idria and the place as a whole. For centuries this place has provided this important raw material, but of course the consequences of mining are significant today. The biggest problem, in fact, in closing the mine is that we never know if we have carried out all the procedures to this limit, so that we will not have any problems with the consequences of mining in the future. Even more important is the fact that the site or Idrija itself is located at the site of the mine itself, so that it is also a fateful dependency of the inhabitants and the security of the whole place through the procedures that have been carried out and must be carried out in the future to repair the mercury mine. Here we would also like to point out in particular the fact that it is very important that this mine is closed on the basis of the adopted law and that some of the deadlines after the laws already adopted have actually expired and could talk about the fact that everything should be well arranged today in nature. We note that this is not the case today, so the law on the prevention of the consequences of mining submitted by colleague Sam Bevk is extremely important that we also monitor all developments in the future and actually implement all the remedial measures necessary to avoid accidents or other consequences. Even after the time when, let's say, an exhausted date after the law now in force, or as the government representative has said, under the regulations adopted by the Government, we must be aware that there will still be a great deal of ignorance in front of us, whether or not something else will happen. And here we have to point out that the Mining Act doesn't have a solution right now, anything from the moment the mine is officially closed. And then what happens or what happens when, after the official closure and after the official cessation of the remedial measures, the phenomenon that has still emerged in the future can be addressed. We do not have these legal solutions, and until the mining system law is written in such a way as to foresee solutions even in those cases where the mine is finally repaired, it is imperative to extend the individual validity of the law in the mine concerned. And Idria is one of these cases, because the law already exists and there is also a need for the implementation of the measures to be legally regulated and written down in the future. This will make the place and the population much more peaceful, and they will always have an accomplice with whom they must solve the problem if it occurs. With regard to the transfer of land, which is also governed by this law from the country to the municipality, I believe that it is indeed unacceptable for the State to try to repair mining by selling land to the mine or the company that works for the rehabilitation of the mine in management in such a way as to sell it to the municipality or to a company that wishes to expand its activities within this environment. So the place itself is funding to close the mine. This is an inadequate measure, so we believe that this law really needs to be adopted and that the state land in the mining complex should be transferred to the municipality, which will then be able to use it for its development needs or for the development of the economy, which is otherwise crucial to ensuring that life in this area can be preserved and compensated for the loss of mining-related activities. Thus, the solutions that are very simple, clear and necessary for the future are essential in this law, and we will support this law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija will be presented by colleague Drago Koren. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to Members of Parliament and our guests on the balcony! In the New Slovenia Group, we will not support Idri's proposal for a law on preventing the consequences of mining in the mercury mine. The proposed law aims to ensure the operation and financing of the mine after 2008 and to regulate the possibility of transferring part of the national assets of the mercury mine Idri in closure to the Idri municipality. In the New Slovenia Group, we are of the view that the proposed law is unnecessary, as all the solutions, as put into consideration by Member Samo Bevk, are already duly regulated in the Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the Conversion of the Living Silver Mine Idria. The 500 - year - old mercury mine, one of the world’s largest, which had a significant impact on the city of Idria itself and on the quality of its inhabitants, is gradually closing down. The closing works carried out with the assistance of the Ministry of Economy are expected to be completed last year, but part of the mine has remained open due to specific geomechanical conditions and will need to be further maintained, which requires certain financial resources. In the New Slovenia Group, we reviewed the budget for 2008 and 2009 and found that the financial resources for closing the Idrija mine and also for the payment of mining damage in Idrija have already been provided on the budget lines of Mine Closure Programmes. For these two reasons, we will not support the draft law in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u161	Thank you very much. My colleague, Kristijan Janc, will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Mr Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we cannot support the bill because the content of the law already before us is covered by the relevant regulation adopted by the Government and the necessary financial resources are already provided to close the mine in Idrija, as well as to remedy the damage to mining in the 2008 and 2009 budget. Transfer of part of the state assets of the mercury mine Idri in closure, d.o.o. the municipality of Idrija is, as is already known, already covered by Article 12 of the current law on the prevention of the consequences of mining, the officially purified text, Official Gazette 26/5, and will be carried out following the procedure of its regular liquidation. We believe that everything necessary to successfully remedy the consequences of mining in the Idrija Mercury Mine is adequately covered by the relevant rules adopted, and therefore we cannot support the proposal of a fellow Member's law. Finally, we recommend that the Government examine the possibilities of complementing the measures to complete the rehabilitation by further transferring unpaved buildings within the Idria area, the historic city centre, and categorisation of public roads and public roads to the Idrija municipality, as proposed by the municipality in its comments. We believe that it is necessary to listen to the people and the congregation responsible for maintaining and regulating cultural monuments and the world heritage, to which Idria mine must belong, as well as to maintaining public and local roads. As has already been said, this law will not be supported by the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Yelen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u164	Thanks again for saying that. The proposed law is intended to ensure the operation and financing of the mine, to enable certain activities of the company, to regulate certain bodies of the company and to ensure that part of the assets owned by the mine is transferred to the Idrian municipality. All of this is already standardised in existing regulations, with the same objectives, purpose and substantive solutions. Nothing new, therefore, in substance, will this law bring about in the field of prevention of the consequences of the long-standing extraction of mercury ore in Idrian. Although we do not object to DeSUS's proposal for a law, we ask ourselves whether or not it is necessary to adopt a law that is already covered by the existing rules, whether in part or in a law that is somewhat archaic, but, on the proposal of the same proposer four years ago, has been somewhat supplemented, as well as in government regulations that are the basis for the implementation of the legal solutions adopted in this area, and in all the existing implementing or implementing programmes aimed at the mine closure and disposal process and the prevention of the consequences of mining. Since we do not see in the new law one single reason to justify its adoption in such a way that, in view of the existing regulation, it would bring new news and would mean the upgrading of matter, in the DeSUS Group we assess that the proposal for this law does not need to be considered further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Ambassador Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u166	Thanks again for the word. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the government! I'm surprised by this speed of debate and I think because I'm from places that are just as mining, how nice it is when mines are exploited, when they're exploiting the surfaces and surfaces underground for a hundred, two hundred years - depending on where. And then it's easy to marry within five years all that's necessary to close. And then, if mercifully allowed, another two or three years of extension of the law, and then let it be all right. Let the pit be closed, watered, no more incursions, people will be from now on, specifically in this case where there was mercury, healthy and happy to live on, everything will be fine and the story is over. Well, that's our relationship. Mine miners and mining sites are no different than people living in rural areas, such as farmers, such as people living on the Pohorje, who are not just farmers, or people who deal with livestock. It's all you. Life's hard. And we can't just undo the consequences. The Government's claim and indications that everything - this is very interesting to read - mentioned in the proposal for a law, is already governed by a regulation. The essence of the change you don't want to hear is that, but now take the pyramid: the roofing law is the constitution, for example, for all of us. From the Constitution down are laws of importance. From the law onward, however, there are other submarital acts. You know, colleagues and colleagues, the regulation or the law is like apples and sausages, that's a major difference. Of course, with a letter of intent, there is a lot of promise and also a regulation. But what binding power, what legal power does the regulation have compared to the law? The regulation can be changed; we have changed nothing, but we have already adopted it today - I do not know how much; but we have heard nothing of the promised, and it will be no more to the day after tomorrow. The same story is happening, so I understand, in the Rippers, where they now think mercifully that the mine will work for another two years, and we will regulate it with some regulations and letters of intent and so on. No! No! We too will be stubborn, and we will want this agreement and such views and predictions to be legalised. It is the law that we are talking about in this National Assembly, and it is the law that is binding on everyone later. And that's why I know, I'm sure that colleague Bevk is right and that everything that's written in here is true, even if he took 10% of the reserve. It's true, it's not easy to say: the program by 2008 and then let the mine be closed, the money you've got - that's the easiest thing to do - the money you've got, with this money now do everything, this money "spoil" among people, hire them, pay others the spas to get well and we've solved your problems! That's not how it works. Money doesn't solve problems. There's not even enough money laid down in some law to close a mine. I want to know how you understand the many annexes that happen and the country pays them peacefully, say, in road renovations. The value is, I say, ten units, the state pays for that road 30 units because it's 200 units of annex -- but it pays peacefully! In order for the state to hear that in closing the mine and in all the elements listed here and I will not repeat them, things are complicated as they get complicated in building the road, and that the country would then lay down and allow for some annex that would give substantive and financial injection and help - that is not the case! In such cases where it is a degraded area, where it is a preservation of cultural tradition, where it is a matter of helping people who have become ill, where it is not least a number of holes that are still open and which are dangerous, where it is a monitoring which is determined by law, to observe what is happening: an unexpected, hole, a hundred, 200 meters. It's not free. We can't solve this with a regulation in two years! Fifteen years is foreseen for monitoring. Until the cave is closed, the hole is covered, either with dust or with water or whatever, depending on the structure, the mine is closed! And we can't save him partially with a year or two and with regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what this is all about! It's not that only Bevk would want to be a "freaker" or a local sheriff in his congregation and say, "I've made it happen." No, I don't believe it. This has to be arranged! I'd like to take you to see what degraded surfaces look like when overnight a half-meter or a meter breaks into where you can least imagine where the house ends overnight! But you can't figure that out in two and a half years or five years, not even by a regulation! At least have a little listening to those who are a hundred, two hundred years old - because I'm not talking, it's not some company that's been "infused" in six months or five years! This was a tradition that lasted a long time in Slovenia, which meant a lot in the days of the former Yugoslavia. That mine was rich. The mine was important. And all the consequences that have arisen for decades and decades cannot be saved overnight. That's why the law is necessary, not a regulation. Once again, no regulation, no law! And if it's true that all of this is substantively solved by a regulation, what the hell happens if we say, "instead of a regulation, we're going to call this act law." Nothing changes! The government says it's all agreed that all of this is defined by what's in this law. So let's call this regulation, rename it law. If this is all settled, then that's the way it is, and the matter will be resolved. I don't know why it would be complicated. Why don't we say "law" instead of "law"? Nothing changes. We just accept today that it's called the law, and that's all. Considering they're saying it's all done. So he didn't just write it, Mr. Bevk, he wrote it in his head. This is what those colleagues and colleagues who live in such ends who know the extent of such activity, talk about spatial, talk about human, and also talk about a history that will last and that will be passed on with the museum and unfortunately through the disease of people generationally. We will support this proposal absolutely in the Slovenian National Party. In fact, we will always say now that we support only the proposal to rename the regulation into law. I think that's purely fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u167	The position of the Lipa Group will be presented by Ambassador Barbara Žgajner Tavš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u168	Thank you very much, even this time, for your word. Dear colleagues, how many of you are in the hall right now! In the Lipa Group, we will support the proposal for a law on preventing the consequences of mining in the Idria Mercury Mine. I must say that we have been in a similar position when we discussed partial solutions under this mandate, we have already been and supported the solutions, and as far as Zasavje is concerned, it was the question of Mizica, the Miški valley. And we have already talked about the mercury mine in Idria in this Parliament. And when we get Members and Members, mainly from opposition parties, with similar solutions, partial at the level of the country, yet integrated solutions in the area of a region or a place, then says the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: no! The government will prepare integrated solutions that will include environmental rehabilitation. And I'm asking if that's true. In almost four years of this government's mandate, we have not received a single proposal for such an integrated solution, not a single proposal that would include an integrated environmental recovery, an environment that has suffered negative adverse effects from industry. In a specific case, for mining. A colleague in front of me talked about the situation in Trbovje, Zasavje. I am also home from Trbovlje myself, so I know firsthand how machete is when we are talking about solving or remedying consequences in a long-term environment, decades of parade horses or economic and social development, not only for the Republic of Slovenia, for the whole of Yugoslavia. And the trebwell mine was number one, in the former Yugoslavia, progress. With money from the Trbovlje mine, roads were built all over Slovenia, across Yugoslavia. We even invested in infrastructure in today's Croatia. But people, local people, suffered the consequences. Do you know what the situation is today in the Rippers, in Zasavje? Here are the data that are available and with which neither the Ministry of Health wants to come to the public. Today newborns are born in Trbovje, and on average the size of their heads, which is a sad story, is lower than the average in Slovenia. People in the Trbovje region or the Zasavsko region are more likely to get sick and die of cancer and other pulmonary diseases. Also significantly higher than the Slovenian average is the number of risky pregnancies in the Zasavska region. You could still count! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is speaking on initiatives - we have also taken an initiative in the Lipa Group, but we were not the only ones - on the initiative to adopt systemic solutions in the Sava region that will give people what they deserve. The environment is still highly contaminated with heavy metals, resulting from long-standing mining and heavy industry in these parts or regions of Slovenia. The government says - no, things need to be examined, analysis needs to be done, integrated solutions need to be prepared. The analysis was carried out in 1989; in 1989, integrated analyses were carried out by the Ministry of Health, probably in which the drawer was locked. But the consequences are not limited to the population in health, although health is exactly the category that is, I believe, the most important. Health is a fortune. The consequences are also visible in the social field, and since I come from such a region, I can tell you firsthand that the social picture is sad. That unemployment is also higher, higher than the Slovenian average, and the Ministry of Labour has no response, has no measures, has no plans to help these regions. We even went so far that the Ministry of Economics took over what was local. I ask you how many lands, specifically in Zasavje, in Trbovje, have been copied or copied from the local community to the address of the State, the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Environment and Space? How many companies have moved to this account from the local level to the state level? How many properties is the State of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Economy as manager or owner of the Trbovlje Mine - how many properties has the State of the Republic of Slovenia taken under its auspices and sold them at a price to some individuals who see in this nothing but their own capital interest? Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is a disgrace and this is a disgrace to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. This disgrace goes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on account of the health of the local population, at the expense of the economy of the local population, at the expense of the social local population! A while ago, we also had a debate in Parliament about a law that would provide compensation or the right to treat people who have suffered the consequences of production or working with asbestos. And that's when the government said no. The government will come up with an integrated solution. Again! I wonder when. The comprehensive solutions to be drawn up once by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are moving into an unspecified future. People who have suffered the consequences of some heavy industry, because of mining, must live and survive today, not some uncertain future. And I say it would be fair to talk about such and similar laws to take into account the opinions, needs and wishes of the local population. This law is very specific about the consequences or consequences of the adoption of a law according to the needs of an environment called Idrija or the Idrija environment. An amount of €430,000 for the measurement and ecological rehabilitation of sites where an increased radon content has been found. Funds amounting to EUR 112,243 per year for the health care of the population. And with regard to the health care of the population, the government says - no, it is a shame to give EUR 112,000 to people who have suffered health consequences. At the same time, the same government is 4 million Euros of funding, which have already been provided under the budget to help people who cannot pay supplementary health insurance alone because of social hardship, these financial resources have been taken out of the budget by the Government to me, nothing to you, and allocated them to the item called the referendum on the provinces. Four million euros has been removed from your health care by the government, nothing to me. Today he says no again. In case we have the opportunity to help people with only 112,000 euros, but this is too much for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia because it has other interests. The mining funds provided for under this Act amount to EUR 2 million. Resources for the operation of the mercury information and research centre amounting to EUR 320,000. The required resources for limited use of space due to the consequences of long-term mining of €4 million 200,000. And the transfer of the real estate of the mercury mine to the local community. Yes, well-respected colleagues and colleagues, the local community is the one who is entitled to ownership of real property. I told you earlier what happened in the case of the Sava region, or in particular the Tiberias municipality, when the state took ownership of infrastructure, over real estate, even over social housing, and put them on the market, sold them at a price so that individuals could serve and market well on what was built with the money of the local community. Such laws are urgently needed, respected colleagues and colleagues, so much more because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not listen to people, it only sees its own interests. I believe that this is a very good way to fill the state budget, but very few people have suffered the damage. And what will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia do, what is its next step? It will establish the provinces and place all the burden on the landscapes, and it will get rid of another responsibility. In the Lipa Group, we support the proposal for a law on prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idria Mercury Mine because we say that it is an urgent solution or assistance to the local population that has suffered the negative consequences of long-standing mining.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u169	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. However, we are going through a general debate between Members and Members. The first one, however, has the word of a colleague, Samo Bevk, in the role of proposing the law. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I would like to respond to the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, as a result, to the views of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups: the Slovenian People's Party, the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia, and in part the DeSUS, who then consistently reiterated this position. The government's position is only in a small part true, but it is largely misleading. Indeed, it is not true that all the things that I propose by this law are already recorded in the 2004 amendment of the Law, which was adopted at my initiative in the National Assembly, and that we have arranged for the maintenance of the indefatigable part of the mine, monitoring and maintenance of the tourist mine, and in that basic law of 1987, as well as that it does not claim that in fact, in this law, the things in the government regulation adopted this spring are copied. In fact, when the procedure for the adoption of this Regulation was carried out in the Government, the Government [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u171	Comrade Bevk, allow us, given that the technique allows us to adjust something and time to the sending group, please, if you turn it off, and we will try to arrange, in the next two minutes, the technique to the extent that your time will be deducted from the proposalr, not from the sending group. That's why I'm giving four minutes of rest to clean up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u172	Dear Members and honourable Members! We're continuing the suspension session just now. Mr Bevk will continue his speech on behalf of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u173	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I thank the expert services of the National Assembly for allowing this debate to continue. However, I will argue with the position of the Government and the coalition parliamentary groups, which have stated in their position that the solutions to the law that I propose are already entrenched in the old law and in the government regulation. It simply does not hold, or hold, in part. In fact, this law brings something essential new, and this is a compensation for limited use of space due to movements due to mines located under the city of Idria, due to emissions of mercury, due to radioactive radiation of radon, due to numerous waste disposal sites in the city itself, 60 of such different locations, including kindergartens were built in such locations. Just now it was built with the help of the Norwegian financial mechanism some kind of kindergarten and cured this consequence. The Republic of Slovenia, however, did not want to do so and we had to remedy it with the financial mechanism of the Norwegian Government. This is not in the government regulation. The compensation for limited use of space is not in the government regulation and is not even in law. And you, in your opinion, the distinguished representatives of the government, did not even mention this as if it were not in law. That's what I proposed in the law. That's what Article 1 says. Furthermore, there is no protection in the regulation against ionising radiation and radon. In addition, there are no problems in the regulation and also in the law relating to the health care of residents in the city of Idrija, and in particular to the health care of former miners, which according to my data are around 700. Such a view of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the law does not bring anything new - it does not. The law brings substantial news, so I also proposed it. Otherwise, such things as you have done are not dealt with by a regulation. This was pointed out by the Law Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in its opinion on this Regulation of 26 February 2008. I will quote the Government's Law Service, which gives an opinion on any regulation you are preparing: 'In relation to the proposed material', I quote, 'it is not a matter of overlooking the fact that in fact it is not only a matter of changing the company's activity, which is referred to as the reason for adopting the proposed regulation, but more; in addition to extending the activity also for a new company name, change of financing, changes in the jurisdiction and composition of the authorities, while also amending the provisions on the company's core capital, thus harmonising the general acts of the company, and proposing a change of the entries in the register. Because it can be said that it is essentially about creating a new society, and we believe that today this is an unusual way to establish a society, that is, a government regulation." This is the position of your government law enforcement. Nevertheless, you insisted on this regulation and adopted it. Of course, I welcome it, and this regulation also brings something new and is a positive move. In conclusion, this same government law service states that the material and the law state that after the closures have been completed, the procedure for the regular liquidation of the company, the repeal of the existing regulation, the examination of the existence of the law or the preparation of its comprehensive novelties and the adaptation of the existing state and the new situation in the Idrija Living Silver Mine is to be carried out. And what you have been recommended by the legislature in the government, I did when I proposed this law, which is now in government procedure. Thus, in essence, the position you have conveyed as the government's opinion of this law is misleading. Hereinafter, perhaps some more argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Comrade Bevk. As we say, we are in the general debate of Members and Members. The first one has the word of colleague Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. My performance today can also be seen as mining solidarity with Idria, but not based on it. Unlike my colleague Bevek, I did not expect any different response or position from the Government. That would be a miracle, but I haven't believed in miracles for a while. Even in this House. That's why I object. Despite the fact that this marriage solution dates back to 1987, in a time that, after the inertia of events already taking place in this House, would have to be changed if you were a right-centre government, perhaps for the better, and many times something went wrong. However, in order for evolution to be perfect, Mr Bevik's amended 2004 law should be released today through the first parliamentary seat and the law on preventing the consequences of mining in the mercury mine Idria should be marked as suitable for further consideration. Believe me, I know the feelings of people living in Idria who live above trenches that stretch more than 130 kilometers in their area, and that fear for their future and, of course, concern for their future is also present among people. Therefore, the compensation for the limited use of space is certainly not a novelty to be removed by the left hand. In doing so, I would also like to add that it might make sense in Slovenia to consider all the closures of mines or individual caves in one place, with one law, with the same criteria, the same criteria, and thus to address these shortcomings that we have received today. Let me say that the problems they face in Idrija are not, at least, alien to me. Even in Velenje, the Skala Cave closes and this cave closes without law. I don't know if there is any other cave or mine in Slovenia that closes without law - in Kočev, Mr Weber says, is not an exception. That is why it is even more important to settle this with a single law, and for this part also to allocate funds that could not only be earmarked for closure, this mental framework will have to be exceeded once, but also for development, also because of the limited use of space. Believe me, I know these stories very well. I haven't been a politician myself since the beginning, I've spent eight years in the trenches of Velenje Coal, and not only that, I'm a mining injured man, actually. My family, who had been demolished by her household, had to move out or move because of mining, coal mining in the Valley of Shaleska. So I actually know the feelings of these people, and I want the government to listen to these needs. Nor do I claim that this government is the absolute culprit for the fact that we, for example, do not have a law on the closure of the Skala Cave. We should probably do something before this government's term. This, of course, does not excuse this government that it has done nothing in this area in four years; except that you have once replied to me that we have missed the opportunity and that you cannot do anything in this mandate. And as a mockery of this arrangement, we are amending the mining law that we will be considering Friday at a meeting of the National Assembly. This law provides for an ecological fund; an ecological fund that somehow collects and manages funds to also address the effects of mining in specific areas or mineral extraction in specific areas. This would also be a mockery because now, in accordance with the rules, long-term reservations for rehabilitation and closure work have to be established and this, for example, is done by Coal Velenje. In this case, these funds would have moved elsewhere and the question of where this story would have been and how this story would have ended. Therefore, I suggest that you seriously consider in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this, approach these complex cases in one imaginary, comprehensive way, so that there will be no individual foxes that will not be settled in Slovenia. And that people who, with the objective of development, as was the case in Idria, paid a high price so that they would not remain in planning their future without what, say, Bevk's colleague in his law, which he proposes and which, of course, the government coalition, in order to avoid any miracles in this space, rejects. I will, of course, support it as a suitable basis for further consideration, and I wish that, in fact, we could also complete it by the second reading, change it, even by finding a certain compromise. However, I also believe that this cannot be regulated by a government regulation and that this must be upgraded by law or by changes to the law that are actually in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The following is the word of Member Kristian Janc.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Chairman, once again for your word. In view of the fact that I have already presented the views of the Slovenian People's Party, it is possible that my personal opinion, with all due respect to the fellow Member, who is certainly for his own environment, from where he comes, is very well aware of the situation of the mine there, and that he probably feels a responsibility as a Member to try to do with his law what might further strengthen the role of the Member and the role of the State towards that mine. However, in the regulation, the government regulation is certainly a binding matter, and if the sources in the 2008 and 2009 budget are and will be, then I do not see any additional reason why the law would be an even more solid foundation or support for this mine and this environment and this municipality to ensure that the matter is implemented. I think that the government regulation is strong enough, regardless of the end of the mandate of this government and of this national assembly, 2009 will also be the source of the budget, adopted by this government and this national assembly and implemented these programmes, which are committed to closing this mine. Nevertheless, I only hope and believe that the Government, the competent ministry and the congregation are closely involved in the joint plans they have for this environment, probably in the local congregation, the municipal council, etc. I don't think there's been any special problems here, feeling that anything would be wrong. But I agree, of course, that the people of this environment are waiting for help, and I also agree with those who said that it would be good to have all these mines locked up on the same denominator, that there is now no one closer to someone who would say either to the National Assembly or to the Government, a different status than someone who does not. Also that it applies for, I don't know, from the Rippers, if you want to, to Idria, but there are also some, but if it is, I think it was, and it is being implemented in this sense, that everyone has about some level playing field in closing. However, it is true that this closure has been going on for a number of years, I know some cases, but it still hasn't closed, and there are still some problems, such and different, and it is still quite expected that additional, additional and additional assistance from the State is expected. You know, for once, the story has to end! I'm not talking about Idria, I'm not talking about the Rippers, I'm talking about one other mine, which I think for a number of years, because of perhaps incompetent leadership, incapacitated people in closure, have absorbed quite a lot of resources, and unfortunately, in the environment, they left a very, very minimal mark on the positive story of closure. I'm not talking about these two mines to understand each other, for example. about Idria, which is now being proposed, but once every story has to be over. Some, however, expect that the closure will be financed indefinitely, but it does not, in fact, close and live quite a few lives on the spot, one way or another. So that public finances - I know that everyone, in all environments, is expecting them on all projects in one way or another, but I am sure that 2008 and 2009 will help; but what after 2009, we do not know is likely to end the story. I am confident that the country will follow these trends, that all other cases in Slovenia, which were treated equally as Idrija at this time of closure, will also be treated as other mines in closure. But I see no need, personally, why the law, if the real commitment of the government, the regulation and everything else to finance it. Why is that not enough, and why is there no confidence in the government regulation by the billmaker? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u178	Thank you very much. And once again, a colleague of Sam Bevk is involved in the debate in the role of proposing the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u179	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Janc said that one thing must end, but not the closing of the Idrija mine, but the other. The Idrian mine was supposed to be physically closed, cavework, in 2006. It extended until the end of this year due to unforeseen works. It is the specificity of this mine and also the environment in which this mine is located, in which more than 300 miles [122 km] of trenches that were dug 400 meters [400 m] beneath the city lie Idrija and 6,000 inhabitants. The cave will be flooded to the fourth horizon, and this cave water will have to be pumped to the surface and this is constant maintenance. In addition, it will be necessary to monitor whether the land is moving, whether it is stable and whether the safety of residents in Idrija is ensured in the long term. And at the end of 2008 and at the beginning of next year, the cave will be physically closed; it is said that this process of mine closure will be completed and all the works I have already talked about will be required. In addition, the transformation of the company and the new activity, from the European Union Centre for Live Silver to the development of a tourism activity related to the half-thousand-year history of this mine, into a tourist mine. Now all this rich heritage will be on the UNESCO World Heritage List, which gives an additional dimension to this project, so that we urgently need the legal order of this area. Because it's a new development cycle. I call it the new 500 years, the new half-thousand. This mine has operated continuously for more than half a thousand years and has been one of the most technologically completed mines in the world, the second in size, behind the Spanish Almaden, and has created enormous wealth for all of these countries that have exploited it. They calculated, I think that when the Idrian mine was on the surplus and when the jar of this mercury was worth about $900, that the production costs were about $150, everything else was profits. And this profit is both in the past and when it was still a mine, in various state cash registers. And they also calculated that with this money they could build 6, 7 nuclear power plants, or 33 clinical centres in Ljubljana, or 142 ski centres in Canin, and some such comparisons could be found. In all this time, 13% of the world's mercury production was produced here. And even today, 10% of the stocks of mercury ore are still in this environment. And why did I say that last time? Because we will have an environmental burden constantly because of the nature of the back. In fact, from the Idrian environment, from the palate of this land, leaks into Idrija and Soča and, as a result, into the Gulf of Tržaška, about 1,700 kilograms [1,700 kg] of mercury per year. He's going to the cleaners. We don't know where with that mud loaded with mercury. Following the European Union strategy on mercury adopted in 2005, mercury should no longer be used in thermometers. Thus, the ecological dimension of mercury and radon and all the problems associated with it are very large. That is why this law, this marriage protection, because it is a serious problem and also this law in the sense of giving a new development perspective to this area, which has also been extremely successful in closing the mine, because in this area a great industry has developed, the Idrian and Church industrial pool is considered one of the most developed in Slovenia and in the wider European area. And, of course, we are proud that we have managed to close the mine well or that we will close it well, that there is an industry developing here, that Idrija is not a large budget cost, but that, given what she is putting into the state treasury today, that we will make more contributions than we can get to the city and the congregation alone, and we can say that in an exact way. According to income per capita, we are completely in the Slovenian Summit. According to the funds we receive to finance the local community, there are about 190 cities. This fact alone shows that we are significantly more contributing to the state treasury than we are getting from the state treasury. Of course, we are also grateful that the country has continued to contribute to the closure of the mine and will do so in the future. However, I would like this not only to be the case with this regulation, but that the 2004 law, which was amended on my initiative, would be upgraded today by these solutions that I have proposed in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The word is from Ambassador Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It all shows that today is the day of the Social Democrats in this Chamber. I will not give much thought and debate on the proposal of this law, but I think that we should rethink, as I have already warned in the law on changes in the law on income, that the country in which citizens, and in this case also local communities, depend on what the current government and the current coalition thinks and lays down the conditions of life, work and operation with government regulations or interpretations of individual laws, rather than solving such fundamental rights and also the possibilities of citizens and citizens with laws, I think that such a country is not safe, legal and not a long-term reliable home for us, Slovenia and Slovenia. Why do I say that? As a result of the government regulation [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Mr. Petan, I think you'll have a chance to speak, so call me when you have a chance. I don't think he can handle government regulations. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Looks like he figured out he wasn't gonna win the election. That government regulations cannot solve things that are long-term and that are intended to provide security for a general or even provincial environment. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the consideration of the Law on the Provinces, we have seen one interesting thing: the rehabilitation of mines and the rehabilitation of the consequences of mining in the provinces. In addition, the State did not provide for this and imposed various obligations on different provinces, because many of the provinces of the mines, not the present ones or the former ones, do not have or would not have. It is said that we have actually come up with a situation where the government thinks that they can come up with something new at any moment, something else, and that it will simply cover it with regulations. I do not think that this can be a solution and that the proposal prepared by our colleague, Sam Bevk, is the only rational solution, in that I have to agree with Mr Jance that in this way we should cover virtually all the mines that are in the process of closing or repairing the consequences of mining in their environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word again.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u183	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Why is it so important to close mines professionally? In this case, I will not only talk about the Idrija mine, but also other Slovenian mines are closing and they need to be closed professionally, as well as what other active ones we will be forced to close in the next period. Many in the world have seen this very much with their left hand, very easily. But there were disastrous consequences. I'd say a case, say, in France. The closure of the iron mines in Lorena was done without prior security measures, which basically closed only the doors and repositioned people elsewhere but did not protect the environment. As a result, the entire sections of the cities are demolished, the incursions are in the fields, the highways, railways, and the fast train connecting Europe to England, and this route has been damaged. We have, say, major problems in England, where the gun and impactors appear on the surface, say, they were mines in Wells that were unprofessionally closed. And in France, for example, they were forced to hire an expert group of experts from all over the world to deal with these problems. Mr Bojan Režun also participated in such an expert group, with his associates in the Idrija mine. This particular Idrial positive experience has also helped to make France more professional. Or, say, in the South African Republic, and in Australia, and in Eastern Europe, for example, they also have major problems in Poland, so I can say that closing mines in Slovenia is one of the more positive things, including by law as we have it or by law as we want to improve it. That is why I would like this knowledge to be passed on to others because of our experience. That is why we have also proposed that an information and research centre be established within the Idrija mine, because this great knowledge, which is concentrated in the field of mine closure, in the field of ecology, in the field of environmental protection, could also be shared across the European Union and also by all those dealing with similar problems as we do. I would therefore appeal once again to fellow Members and fellow Members to support this law and not to follow the opinion of the Government which opposes this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u185	Your Honor! This law is not really about whether you support it or not, representatives of the government, the coalition. Three of them were able to join us. Earlier, one of the SDS even left because he did not like the arguments, why this law would be appropriate, left this treatment with some gestures, what all that was wrong. But this law is about whether the government is willing to listen to the resolution of some of the pressing problems in this society. It is a problem, it is a need, it is a matter of things that should be regulated, it is a highly developed country, as Slovenia is increasingly, to know how to deal delicately and also to regulate. Not that on the half side, the government arrogantly refuses that this law is not necessary, but that it is not appropriate. And what irony, three hours ago, we also discussed the Decree on Amendments and Supplements to the Decree on the Annual Plan for the Real Estate of the State, etc. There you could easily give up a few hundred million euros if you sell it or donate it to a variety of people. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and, similarly, a couple of hundred thousand euros, without knowing why you had them. Here, when proposed in Article 9, and gravely rejecting it when it comes to the municipality being able to get places for schools, for cultural activity, for the development of the economy, etc., this is simply not acceptable for you. I believe that you consider this law to be pre-approved and it is also likely, because only Bevk comes from this environment and now has, like all coalition Members and Members, a special sense of the environment from which it comes, but regardless of whether you are prepared to talk about the content. After several centuries, the mine has moved into history, leaving consequences behind, for some even very dramatic, and it is right for the National Assembly to define itself once by law. I would be very happy if Mr Janc, as a representative of the coalition, once came, but said, Kanjiarica, Senovo, Feed and others, and even in his congregation, some other locations that have suffered the consequences of mining in the past, left behind deep wounds, both in humans and in the environment and also in the substance of the economic potential, to simply conclude and say, everywhere where the country where citizens and citizens in the past had such work, so some of the resources needed to survive and also the state or Austro-Horsk, or one or the other Yugoslavia, or the present Slovenia benefit. And it is the duty of the state, whoever the heir is, that all the consequences of the past also be rectified. I do not believe on the basis of this opinion, which is the truth of love for an official for exactly five minutes of work, that you have dedicated yourselves to the law and that in the three paragraphs you have written only "returning, rejecting, rejecting". See if there is anything positive about the things proposed by the opposition Members. I don't know the situation as well as anyone has previously explained that they know what the traumas are in Zasavje and the one from Velenja who are in Idrija and so on because of some consequences. But I do know that when one thing comes before the National Assembly is worth the consideration, it is worth the attention and understanding of government officials, Mr. Sušnik, because you can say it directly if you have something to say. [[...]] But they're calling you, how do you have to respond, but how? It's the excess of this arrogance that's shown by the coalition species. The one and only person on duty here is on the phone. He's probably gathering arguments about how to further reject something positive. Gentlemen of the government, that's all this is about. Can we talk about things, or can we talk about what our common concern is? Yes, of course, if we come to the question of closing the factory in Ormož tomorrow as well, I will certainly support a variety of ideas that will be a sector, in the end it is a sector here, which is now being remedied or consequences. I don't want to go into the details of this marriage. Not because it doesn't make any sense. The Secretary of State and his co-worker will say that everything is in the opinion. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is also clear and does not preclude this being regulated. The coalition does not want to discuss this. Why waste your time and you're justified in this claim when you say, "Don't torture us." We have so many problems with spending money that we still have to spend until the end of this mandate, sell out certain things, instruct individuals for 600,000 and more euros, without knowing who and now you are burdening us with some other things that Mr Sam said 500 years ago, or the next 500 years will be the subject of this debate in these premises, because we will never be able to erase those wounds that have been caused in these environments, as if it were not. I'll do it for you, of course, I won't discuss it again. Only if it is worth this National Assembly, this Slovenian public and our mission, then of course let everyone read this government position and see that they don't even want to discuss things, let alone find out and say, "Why not?" I'm one argument. Three hours ago, you were discussing how you're going to sell out, how you're going to share, how you're going to transfer state property. Here, when you have only one, I'm going to say a more innocent case of property owned by the state, but we could not transfer it to the congregation. But there, when it comes to very suspicious matters, there, in a vehement manner, you are transferring hundreds of millions of euros and you will elevate them within three months, as you say with new added value. I don't believe it. Let's deal with the law if you want. If not, of course I expect only a vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloys Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u187	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam Vice President. Government representatives present. In fact, I have to say first that I didn't actually mean to come over, but when I listen to some of these discussions, but because I have already written and we have time in the parliamentary group, I would also try to add something on my own; of course, not at the expense of criticising the government, what is, of course, for the election needs in this Parliament every day. But there is something I want to remind you that, in fact, you keep repeating and saying with your finger on the government, and you blame it for the wrong fiscal policy, if you spend too much, that it didn't cut costs, and that as a result of such leadership of this country, high inflation, you keep repeating it. On the other hand, as the opposition, you are constantly proposing laws whereby you wish to renew and re-add new obligations to Slovenian taxpayers. Yes, dear fellows, tell me how this goes together. Do you think the Slovenians are so naive that they don't understand? So, on the one hand, I wouldn't say that's not all that's necessary. [[...]] My predecessor listed a whole series of problems in the mining area. Last time we had a series of problems in the asbestos area. I remember what a big hook it was to build TET3 in Trbovje or Hrastnik, because I don't know where. We went to a referendum. People had to say at the referendum that they didn't give, I don't know, a billion more marks then to build a factory that would cause an even bigger problem in the environment today than we have. The whole of Europe is discussing how this policy, environmental, has been wrong in the past, and you were then the biggest advocate and initiator to smoke millions of tons of lignite there, and I do not know how much in the air of CO2 and have caused in this environment, which has already already been overloaded, such and such a disaster, which today would have saved it with millions of euros. They did something similar in agriculture when they regulated all streams, caused us to meet today, otherwise this year, thank God not, but years ago with droughts. Now these same experts for the same money are building irrigation systems backwards - and we say we are investing in agriculture. Think about it! Is it true that this country has an unlimited source of funding for all that you are proposing? But if you don't, then of course, one can easily tell you that you're trying to get voters with these various problems, and that even if they believe you, you won't be able to solve all these problems because you won't have any financial options. A man can always cover himself with a blanket if he owes a debt. But if it's too short, but it has to shrink a little bit, it has to sleep tight. Comrade Anderlich, you're warning others not to jump into your words, and you're always here commenting on something. You'll be able to sign up and you'll get the word. So that the government did not respond, it is necessary to say to the public, of course it replied, that in 2008 - 2009 7,388,000 euros are foreseen for these needs. However, if Mr Bevk wanted more in his environment, I believe that he would want more, and who would not have any more. I would like more, all of us would like more, but to give someone more to someone else, answer me at the same time. It should also be in these laws if I suggest an increase somewhere, that I also have to say where to take it. Just as the budget consists of being in the congregation or in the country. Mr. Bevk would like more. 1.430.000 for ecological rehabilitation of facilities. Why didn't you write, I don't know, three million, why 1,430,000? This number could be different. If the government didn't argue where they were in the law of argument why so much. For medical examinations, you say the municipality receives 4,200,000, more for limited use. I must correct you, Mr Anderlich, the sugar factory in Ormož is already closed, is not closed, is due to decisions made by the European Union, no one has much debated that three thousand farmers have had to stop producing sugar beet. In the European Union, the processing of sugar decreased by five million tonnes because it is simply too much. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Croatia is not yet a member of the European Union, but one who does not yet know it, when a member of the European Union will also have to respect the European acquis as the European Union must do as a regulated community of countries. [[...]] We would also write one law, and I will say that because of the limited use of space, because the factory is on 30 hectares, which were built with certain facilities that are now no longer serving the purpose, we would have two million because of the limited use of space, because we need to maintain those roads there and that infrastructure, and we will write such a law and expect that then you will be if you are in the government in autumn, if I have the opportunity through Members to propose such a law and I hope that you will give it to us. [[...]] Why not if that's the case? And if you really point out the problems of inflation; you are right that in Slovenia inflation is higher than in the European Union; and that, of course, under such conditions, it is necessary to reduce total consumption and also through such policies inflation is lower. Then, dear colleagues, at this point stop proposing such and similar laws and at the same time argue that Slovenia does not allocate funds to these problems. Perhaps not as much as you would like in the local environment, perhaps not so much that it would bring a Member's mandate to one of the fellow Members, but it is reliable in the regulations, the legal provisions of what has been adopted in the budget and it contains seven million 380 000 euros. So I also agree with the government's opinion. And I must say that neither this nor such partial laws proposed by individual colleagues, and are, I would say, strictly locally selfish, I will not support it, nor will I ever support it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, perhaps a replica? Mr Anderlich asked for a replica earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u189	I thank Mr. Sok for his contribution to this debate, because he said, "I know everything anyway, I didn't mean it, but because I have to, but I will tell some truth." But when you talk about the sugar factory, your minister, the minister of agriculture, negotiated to close this factory. I think it was a mistake. But she was negotiating. You wanted to lock her up because she was supported by her ex-wife, so to speak, I don't know which ones from the previous regime. It is very true that you have finally said who is responsible for the drought in your area. I always thought that these were some changed weather conditions and that drought came from God, from nature, I don't know where, but certainly not from the political decisions of the previous governments. And you say, of course, if we've been working wrong in this mine for the past 500 years, or I don't know how many years, I apologize, so that's what the former authorities will be responsible for. All right. Maybe we'll get to the truth one more time. The only thing that bothers me, Mr. Sok, is that you don't talk about things. Here is a question of a problem that goes on for years and years and whether we can find common solutions. You are very inconclusive when you say that it is wrong for the municipality of Idrija to receive from the country the closure and costs of the consequences that have arisen there, the area of the primary school complex where schools are to develop, where the playgrounds should be and so on. No, but at the previous point you said to get someone for free - I'm talking again about the decision on changes in the real estate decision - but you said someone should just get it, because that's right. Why double the criteria? The decree, Mr Sok, I cannot discuss the previous point at this point because you were not here either. I've been discussing him. Here you have the name given, with the amounts defined, how much property you will sell, alienate, transfer and so on. In one day, double criteria three times. It's not fair, Mr. Sok. And here's the important thing, once again, I stress, let's talk about whether there's anything salt on what Mr Bevk is proposing or not. But not with such arrogance to reject any thought that any constructive proposal to regulate the situation in that country could come from anywhere other than Ormož, or possibly from Vranski, or from Slovenian Horsemen, or possibly from [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, the replica? Or as a proponent? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u191	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Since I still have a few minutes to propose, I'm gonna take this time. My colleague Sok asked himself earlier whether he asked me where to get the money for this marriage. We ordered 135 patriots. Each will cost between €2 million and €3 million. A few patriots cover all the financial consequences of this law. I'm sure we don't need that many. Or the recapitalisation of the Ljubljana Bank of 70 million euros, but let's leave it. This could also be political manipulation. I have another suggestion. After payment of the income per capita is the Idrija municipality in the very top, I think there in the fifth, seventh place. After what he gets from the state budget for the financing of local self-government and for the operation of the municipality almost on the rap sheet 210. Let the government's services calculate what this difference is and let that difference be returned to the municipality of Idrija, and the wolf will be full and the goat whole. I've already said what's new about this marriage. What's new with the regulation? The regulation that you so refer to brings about the fact that we will have an information and research centre for mercury. And we're having a big holiday in Idria on Saturday. It will take exactly 500 years, half a thousand years, since the discovery of a rich mercury vein, which meant the development of this mine for the next half of the millennium. And on this occasion, the Minister of the Environment will come to Idrija and discover a memorial record of the establishment of the Information and Research Centre. This is a government regulation. My law, however, provides long-term funding for this information and research centre, which the government regulation does not include. Of course, the Minister of this Government will open this information centre and at the same time the government coalition will reject the law allowing the financing of this same information and research centre, which Minister Podobnik will open in Idrija on Saturday. Consider whether this is correct or not. And to conclude, three new things bring forth the law that is being dealt with today. First: compensation for limited use of space. This is nothing new in Slovenia. But we want it for this area, because of the movements, because of the mercury emissions, because of the radon, because of the radiation. This Regulation was published on 4 March 2008 by the Government, setting the areas and the amount of compensation for the limited use of space in the Uranium Mine, Žirovski vrh. And under this regulation, for limited use of space, what I propose will be the municipality where the Uranium Zirovski Summit will receive EUR 4 million for 2008 317 thousand for limited use of space. For limited use of space in Idrija, which is proven more burdensome than those in the Žirovsko Summit, you will turn on the green light today, and from this story as it seems will be nothing. The new issue is also the removal of the effects of ionizing radiation. I haven't been able to get this through the parliamentary procedure since 2004, because they referred to the Nuclear Safety and Protection Act against Ionising Radiation. They said we'd be saving the nursery in Idria under this law. No, no, no. Not the previous government or this government has not contributed or contributed, I think 10%. 90% of the funds for the rehabilitation of the Idrian kindergarten have been provided through the Norwegian financial mechanism, and on Friday this kindergarten will also be opened with the presence of representatives of the Norwegian government. In Idria we have another kindergarten built on the waste dumps of the Idrija mine and the funds for this rehabilitation would bring this law, and you will obviously reject it today. And, of course, health care. Health care for miners and residents. It has also been shown by research and statistics that the morbidity and early mortality of the people of Idrija and Idrija are much higher than the Slovenian average. Not to mention the really problematic health condition of retired Idrian miners, who are still around 700 alive, as far as I know. And the funds for this health care also bring the novelties of this law. So, otherwise, I have given up on the government and the ruling coalition, but of course you have the opportunity to reconsider, on the basis of the arguments that we have presented to you today in this debate, and after we vote, to support this law. I think you'll make a good move. Thank you very much or good luck, as we say in Idria.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. I think it really should be said out loud again that the work in the mine does not end at a time when the ore is not exploited. The mine lives on and lives with it also the place and with all the consequences that mining has brought to this place. The mine in Idrija is just that nature. We also heard how important it was, not only for Idrija, not just for Slovenia, but also for the wider community or even on a global scale, it was important for the supply of mercury. Let me just point out how the ruling coalition today would discuss if the Church owned this mine. I think that we should only discuss how many millions or billions of euros should be given more in order to satisfy this interest. But if we talk about people who live in a place who want to create, the story is completely different. Once again, even though the Mining Act does not have solved procedures, what happens when a mine is actually officially closed and then damage occurs in the environment. There is no mechanism under which the Government could, as you say, adopt a regulation and solve the problem. We are used to the fact that this government does not actually need Parliament at all; if so, it is only for the ruling coalition to vote as a machine for a solution. Otherwise, the Government is trying to resolve everything by means of regulations, which is contrary to the rule of law and contrary to the interest that we can actually express in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u194	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Here you go, Mr. Just Bevk. All debaters have 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u195	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Members and Members of Parliament! In 1987 this law on the closure of the Idrija mine was passed, which is said to have been 21 years since then, the Law on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Idrija Living Silver Mine. In 2004, he was renovated, as I said before. This novel, which I proposed at the time, brought three new things, namely the maintenance of the watered part of the mine after the physical closure of the cave, then monitoring, this is very important, and no other mine in closing in Slovenia has legally guaranteed post-closure monitoring. I think that this should be done for all the mines in Slovenia that have been closed or have already been closed, at least five years of short-term and 10 years of long-term monitoring of how the mines were closed or were professionally closed or not. And this 2004 novel also brought a legal obligation to maintain a tourist mine. The new regulations also bring something new, and they bring new pieces of this law and legislation even more, as we know that when we adopt a new law, we will also get some of the highest regulatory protection of an area. We know about the regulations, they can change very quickly in the Government, they can be poorly implemented, but if we talk about the law, we can talk about the law in the National Assembly. In view of the implementation of the law, every year it is necessary to report to the competent labour force and to have some control over the implementation of such a law. And there was something else that led me to prepare this law and put it into practice. In fact, we have a whole bunch of terminology from 20 years ago, we have the Executive Council of the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we have the Assembly of SR Slovenia, we have delegates, we have a research community of Slovenia, we have delegates of the social community, we have the means of solidarity to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, so we have also cleaned up this law and adapted it to the current state system of the Republic of Slovenia, and I think it is also good that this law is passed, not only because of what it brings. As it is said, between 2008 and 2009, EUR 3 million 174 000 for maintenance, monitoring and mining damage, an additional EUR 4 million 212 000 for these items by 2012. In the end, I would point out what the municipality of Gorenje Vas, Poljane, receives with regard to limited use of space, because of long-term mining, this is a compensation or a salary for limited use of space, which, if adopted, would amount to EUR 4 million 200 000 per year. As well as the means for the operation of the Live Silver Information and Research Centre, which we will open under the government regulation in Idrija on Saturday. And if this opening goes without this law, then this information and research center will just be a letter on paper. This is not what we want in Idria, but we want development and the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Jerič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u197	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! I will personally uphold the Law on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Silver Mine in Idria. In my opinion, this matter should be regulated by law, not by a government regulation. Why marriages? Because these closing works are transferred to the provincial level on the basis of the proposed law on the jurisdiction of the provinces. I am seriously concerned about how we will carry out closing works in various mines in our Slovenia in the coming years. I do not believe that it will be the will of the provincial councils to provide, through the budgets of the provinces, the funds needed to close the mines in a manner that is appropriate and to remedy the consequences in individual environments. I spoke about this when we discussed this part of the package of provincial legislation, but unfortunately there was no understanding of this area. The objectives proposed by my colleague Bevk, I think they are good and should be accepted, as well as written down in the law. I am not the same as Mr Kontič, so that all mine closures in Slovenia can be regulated by one law. I think that the specifics of the closing parts in individual environments in a single mine are such that it is necessary to adopt a special law for each mine. What bothers me is that mine closure is not done on the basis of a common denominator. Why should the local environment, I say that it is right, in some environments this compensation for limited use is not available in other areas of this money. Why, then, is this money not available to the local communities in Zasavje or other congregations? Why do some municipalities or local communities receive a certain amount of income, even from certain energy facilities and other stories, and not from other local communities? In my opinion, if we are to be fair to this area, then similar conditions should be provided for closures in all local communities. I hope that the government coalition will reconsider before the decision is made and that this law will be put under further consideration, because if we do not, you will see what problems we will have in the years to come. I do not believe that all the consequences in Idria will be resolved in these years provided for in the government regulation, because if that were the case, then some mines would not be closed for so long. You know that the Government has adopted such programmes on the basis of legislation adopted in Parliament that some mines are closed after these laws are no longer in force, and I fear that closing mines is difficult work, both by economic, financial, environmental and, finally, by social components, that if there is no real legal basis and resources provided in the state budget, not in the budgets of the provinces, then these closing works will not be done as they should be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Squeak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u199	I will support the law myself in the first reading for a reason, because somehow I cannot join the Government's opinion that everything is arranged, that we have some money on the items, while a person who knows this issue, which no doubt fellow Member Bevk is, does not believe it, and has therefore prepared an amended law. I must say that the Government is on a relatively long law, on a very well-founded law, on the appropriate adaptation of the bill proposals with European directives, which can be a particularly problematic issue now that we are in the EU, in this regard there are also certain restrictions that the Government has responded to this, if all is well, believe us. Member, familiar with this issue, the host just doesn't know it. I come from a mining place on my own. Fortunately, this mining site is still alive. And, of course, the Velenje mine or coal mine together with the Šostanj Thermoelectric Power Plant produces 30.40% of Slovenian energy. So, of course, this problem isn't so pressing out there. However, there will also be this problem in 10, 20 years and, of course, I support the fact that the law on preventing the consequences of mining in the Idrija Mercury Mine is correct and that we conclude or continue the story, which is in fact the story of ensuring adequate development potentials in this place, and of course prevent further damage, provide health care, repair facilities and, of course, also eliminate damage. I believe that, for a number of reasons, including the reasons related to the Court of Auditors' findings regarding the rehabilitation of the mines in Zasavje, perhaps in the past, we have not had the happiest deadlines for all these projects, especially since it is extremely difficult to reshape and redraft the content of what individuals have done, especially it is very difficult to prejudge, but something has already been done here in the past, but it is now necessary to continue and the law is therefore necessary. The Government's arguments have not convinced me, I am convinced by the arguments of my colleague, Mr Bevek, and everything we have heard today. Now, where would you get it, as the coalition representatives say? I hear we have a surplus in public finances. I hear we're doing very well. Well, that shouldn't be the problem at all. The arguments we're hearing here that you're, in saying, we can't afford everything. You know, two years ago, you gave a vehemently 150 million Euros of tax gifts to a very narrow group. That's where you should take it. And that is why it is not possible to adopt the law because, I don't know, there are no public financial resources for this or because, I don't know, you decided that you would give a tax gift to this or those very narrow groups, not to say, as some others have said, even to individual RDCs and so on, but at the same time we don't tax them, then of course we don't have an appropriate policy. I therefore believe that this law should be adopted in the first reading and I expect the creative cooperation of the proposers and the Government, the executive branch of the government, which should deal with this problem for the preparation of the law or for the supplement, if that is the case, in the second reading. But, comrades from the coalition, that's up to you. If you support the law to go to another reading, then it is possible that this content of the law is also upgraded appropriately and comes into the final text. If you do not do so, then there are very few words about prosperity for everyone in Slovenia. Treasures, at least for people in Idrija and the surrounding area, will not be much and of course the next government team will have to solve this. If, of course, you feel that you will reject them, the likelihood that you will be alone in this next government team is greatly reduced. Thank you very much. I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u201	Thank you very much. But I, my fellow opposition, am answering you with some common sense. So if we didn't "scrap," of course we wouldn't have a surplus. That's one times one. And every time you give someone, you just have to take someone else. That's a fact, too. And Mr. Jerič said it right. If he has a right, for example, I don't know where Mr Bevk lives to get for some limited use of space, but why not everyone else who has an energy facility, that or that. Yeah, let's say. We all need kindergarten, Mr. Bevk. We have a 35-year-old kindergarten, I'm ashamed of what it is, so we're somewhere in 41 places or where we're gonna get that part of the country if, I don't know, when. It would be very nice to cut the string. I would love to do that, but I don't know - the municipality doesn't have money, and the country doesn't. Now, you say, we've been closing for 21 years, interesting. 21 years, why don't we lock him up for 100 years. I mean, if you get it every year, why don't you just keep it going forever? You've been doing this for 21 years. You'd expect every story to end once, once it's over. You didn't file this marriage for the first time. I think you must have filed the same law and on the same subject for the second time in this term. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Well, you've filed it more than once. [[...]] Every once in a while you remember and file this same law and you want to survive something, and on the other hand, your client is always actually struggling with too much spending, too much spending, resulting inflation and so on. Now there's only two more answers. You mentioned patriots. This is what you always drag on again, and we stepped into NATO when there was another government and a referendum we had and you know what the obligation is, what Slovenia has to do, that then, how much of the gross social product we have to use for weapons, for operations, and otherwise as far as I'm concerned, we don't need patriots either. I'm in favour of having none, if that's possible. And I'd like to answer my colleague Anderlich. Minister Lukačičov did not negotiate what you mentioned and shut down the factories. You're living in a big mess. The factory was closed down by owners, Comrade Anderlich. In 1996, when Mr Rop was the owner, I do not know whether President Kado or Soda, who was the first to sell his share to the Netherlands, actually sold both funds, and then also certain cooperatives such as Panonka and so on, then came a factory owned by foreign owners and foreign owners decided and closed the factory. Now I'm gonna tell you. In Hungary, only one of the five sugar factories is left and this one is left [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u202	Mr. Sok, you haven't spoken much about Idria so far. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u203	All of this binds, Mr President, to the problem of different environments in this country, different exposures, different impacts and that these environments would be just as much affected as if you were already warning me and you like to do so, when I discuss them, all of these environments would need some help if they were to make laws like Mr Bevk put it in, as he said the third time in this mandate for Idria. So we could all do this, and I want to explain that this is not the right way to solve it. However, I have already said before, whether you held a meeting or not, that, under the law in force, more than €7 million is earmarked for closure in 2008 and 2009, and it is not true that this government coalition, that there is no hearing in this government for closure in Idrija, what Comrade Bevk is trying to say. And to finish that thought when you interrupted me. Only one sugar factory remained in Hungary and this year will not have enough raw materials. Why not? Because cereal prices have risen so high that Hungarian farmers, like ours would have done, all sow wheat and corn and thus expect higher profits. Thank you very much, too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u204	Thank you very much. [[...]] Mr Aleš Gulič [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u205	That you broke up with me. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u206	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u207	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished president! The problem of mine closure is not just Idria's problem. At this point, we have before us a proposal for a law that is supposed to solve the problem related to this mine and I think that the law needs to be supported. To support, in particular, the fact that we are also aware and legally able to show understanding that closing the mine is not a closure of a meeting or a store. This mine started, I think, at 42 meters below the surface, and then over the last 500 years, the network has spread a lot, and it's also a question of how many moves are under control. And so many of those who think that after the case is closed, it's over. At least what's going on with the mine still needs to be monitored. The mine is still alive. They also know this in other mines, and it might be really good to establish a single policy regarding mine closure, not one law that would apply to everything equally, but that it is a single policy to understand that the consequences remain after closure. In Slovenia we have quite a few mines in which it is not even clear who is to pay the consequences, I do not know, Sitarovec is one of such mines, in Lithuania, or another where the owners disappeared, took profits, shills and hooves. There are some of these that were paid after World War II, especially for coal mines in Slovenia, which are also closing down and where things are even more complicated. Perhaps you will, at least one of the things the coalition has asked you to do now and in the previous opposition, to examine and expertly determine why the closure of the suction mines is so expensive. At that time, the state had to order experts from Germany and they told you that this was still very, very cheap. Of course you don't want to hear about it. You don't want to hear anything that's a little more complicated and takes more than two days. The problem is, of course, that you stick to assigning funds to an interesting principle that someone does not, and then when they do not, cannot boast about it. On the other hand, you have enough money for a variety of children, even so you determine what people should eat. I am mainly in favour of the law proposed by my colleague Sam Bevk. I want - now you have a celebration on the Holy Achaca Day, with the Venice boys and Orleka, so to speak, with the indigenous and industrial side connected, a good celebration. But I also want the likeness to be whistled. After all, he has nothing to look for there, given that he represents the government at this moment who does not really want to understand anything more than joy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich. Proposal procedure?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u209	That's right. Mr President, I propose that, given that there was a first hearing and that there were quite a few questions and the Government did not take the time, the government representative did not apply for an additional debate to answer some questions, he must have missed, as he did, by applying to give him an opportunity to answer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Through the Rules of Procedure, we have the opportunity to give him the floor to answer the questions raised in the debate. At least it would have to be answered why it is not possible, why the Government does not accept the definition in Article 9, where it is intended to transfer certain land and facilities to, say, an area of the primary school complex from the mine owned by the State to the Idrija area and so on to a municipality that could manage better with what is there. Today, too, we have considered, as we have said, a decree that decrees that the government or that individual ministries will alienate even a kind of property, sell it, transfer it, and so forth. How is that not possible in this case? I believe that's why. It would be extremely cynical for the state to manage something there, no longer intending to continue the mine activity, no longer wishes to close it by law, to remedy the consequences, and to have the properties defined in Article 9 in the area of Mejce - the Cadastral municipality of Idrija, in the area of Brusovša - the cadastral municipality of Idrija, in the area of the elementary school complex - the cadastral municipality of Idrija and in the area of the cave of Delo - the cadastral municipality of Idrija. I would suggest that, indeed, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if, clearly, the coalition does not object, the representatives of the Government would explain at least this issue. Or perhaps we could have answered some of the debates that have been. But I understand the order that they don't bother, because most of them will support this rejection anyway. But it is the first hearing, it is the exchange of views, it is the views that the representatives of the Government, Members of the various parliamentary groups, and it would benefit from a decision that is likely to be very soon, including this position of the Government, specifically on the issues that I have been talking about and other Members and Members of Parliament. The Serbs asked me to ask Mr Sok another question, but I will ask him after the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Because you've been explaining the Rules of Procedure to me, I'm going to tell you what it's like to be in the Rules of Procedure. The debate was under way. All those who have been reported to the debate have been given the floor. Finally, we asked the government representatives if they wanted a word. They didn't want words. When we proposed to continue the debate with time Do you allow me to say it to the end, Mr. Anderlich? [[...]] I don't know who's running the session now, you or me. Then hold her up if you want. I would say that even after the time we had at our disposal, we divided the time, you all applied, the government representative did not show a desire to discuss. However, to put your hand down, no matter how the coalition decides, I will give the government's representative a chance to give his opinion if he wishes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Initially, I have listed the facts that are in favour of the Government's position, regrettably all the Members present were not present in the Chamber. But the answer to a specific question is the answer concerning the free transfer of property owned by the mine, which is currently governed by Article 12 of the existing, valid law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u212	Thank you very much. The government representative got his word and said what he had to say. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour or at 4:30 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed in half an hour or at 4:30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u213	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the operation of their voting devices. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law amending the law on changes and additions to the law on investment funds and management companies, urgent procedure. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There were 60 votes in favour and 54 against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - consideration of the draft law on profit tax from the removal of derivatives, urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 14 of the three different groups of Members: the Zares Group, the LDS Group of Ambassadors and the Lip Group of Ambassadors. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Check-in is on. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mag. Squeakle, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u214	The Group of Social Democrats will support the amendment because we consider it to be a substantive correction of the proposal of the Association of Securities Members, which has been summarised by the three groups of Members, and we also support it substantively. By deleting the third paragraph in Article 14, it would impose equality for all secession of securities. Or simplified, it is the sale of securities and, in contrast to the purchase and sale price, the capital profit tax is paid. This has been the case since you decided to take part in the coalition in Slovenia in 20 %. However, with the wording of the third paragraph of Article 14, this tax should be 40%. That is why it is not a law on profit tax from the acquisition of derivatives, but a law on 40% tax on derivatives and a law that kills the developing Slovenian stock exchange. The negative effects of adopting such a law if the amendment is not adopted, unless we introduce only 20% of the taxation, are that investors from the stock market will withdraw even more and the collapse of the stock exchange caused by the US financial crisis will continue. We suggest that, in order to prevent this, we accept the amendment, which deletes the third paragraph and retains 20% of the cedular taxation. However, if you want to make progress, if you want those who have more to contribute more, then you need to introduce a different threshold: if the profit from these or those transactions is higher than EUR 15,000, EUR 50,000, a higher rate is introduced. In the way that this is done now, investors will simply withdraw from the Slovenian stock exchange and further declines will continue and people will have increasing losses. Either those who bought the NKBM, or those who bought the Savo-Re now, or the other investors, and this, of course, is bad for Slovenian citizens and citizens. I suggest you don't make another mistake that's been botched by some so-called anti-Tacuna philosophy in recent months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, Madam President. In the Lipa Group, we will support our amendment, or the other two, because it is exactly the same amendments. Although I am not sure that the Government and the Members of the Government know exactly what this article is talking about and what the amendments are talking about. This is not about 40% of the taxation of anyone who deals with shares in our country, it is about capital gains with derivatives. And the first question for all of you: What are the derivatives and who deals with them? In most cases it is optional transactions, real business going on interest, foreign currency, and this is not done by a simple layman, and when we tax 40% on capital gains when it comes to derivative financial instruments, we are essentially creating a negative climate in the economy in the Republic of Slovenia. While the remaining capital gains coming from securities will remain the same tax. And this is not appropriate to me, because the derivatives, not least, more people when dealing with them, more income is also in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, on a 20% tax basis. By making 40% of the capital returns tax, people will simply withdraw from it. But I see, given your attention, that you all know what derivative financial instruments are, how to deal with them, and that it is right for you to tax them 40%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u217	We are voting on the amendments to Article 14. 71 Members and Members voted for 26 to 40. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the amendments to Article 14 are not accepted. We are moving on to the amendment to the 27th Article of the LDS Group. We're voting. 71 Members and Members voted for 26, against 42. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Mag. Squeakle, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u218	Thank you very much. We regret that the amendment to the third paragraph of Article 14 has not been adopted, but we will not oppose the proposal of the law. The reason is that derivative financial instruments are the instrument under which they are traded and therefore the capital gains are determined. When the Government adopted this cedular tax in 2005, it did not include this, and it is correct that at least 20% of the taxation of derivatives for all transactions over one year is introduced, which is the content of the law. You yourself will be responsible for taxing these capital gains at a rate of 40% for business up to one year. The reasons why we opposed this 40% rate and supported the previous amendment are great, it makes no sense to repeat them. However, the following will happen: by the end of the government's mandate, transactions of derivatives will cease to trade in Slovenia, Slovenian banks will therefore be at greater risk because no one will want to pay 40% of the capital gains tax on these instruments. Because no amendment had been adopted to enforce all of this by 1. 1. 2009, there will also be a lot of complications when a particular matter is taxed or not, but you will have to bear the responsibility for it yourself. However, because we assess that it is correct that the derivatives are taxed when they are at least 20% over a year, we cannot oppose the proposal of the law, so we will not oppose it and each Member will decide either a quorum or a quorum or against it. In short, the responsibility, the coalition colleagues, is yours. The confusion you will make, however, will undoubtedly have an impact on the results of those who, at the beginning of your mandate, with these or those reform measures, think that Slovenia will really relax in the capital market. Slovenia has become a very tight country on the capital market with your key to becoming a very tight country and capital will withdraw. This is the characteristic of capital, which does not need to listen to politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u219	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice in your own name? I can only see one hand. Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u220	I was too slow or missed a vote on behalf of the Group of Members, and I will say in my own name what my colleagues will do. Unlike social democracy, we cannot consent to the adoption or approval of this law because we believe that this rejection of both amendments is worse or that it has far greater consequences than the adoption of law. And for this reason, accepting this rotten compromise, because one part of it is being saved by legislation, it is not worthwhile. We have warned in the debate that this is one of the government's actions in pre-election time with the so-called cover of the fight against the tycoon, the way in which it actually becomes more credible than credible. If I wanted to do this, I'd have done it a lot sooner, I'd have done it by putting in effect one. 1. 2008 is not in the middle of the year 2009, when no information system, although Mr Šircelj may not know what he is providing, is unable to move on to this transmission of data. Let me just say that the tax administration is now disturbing its contracting authorities with certain data requirements, but they simply cannot mediate them because the information system is not ready; it is even worse prepared, which is why this is not good. Secondly, I think that this is how the government destroys the capital market. It will either enable or accelerate the incorporation of certain capital investments into foreign markets, into foreign banks and the Slovenian capital market, which is already too weak due to such taxed speculative purposes, which is actually affected by those who have invested in these papers for good purposes, i.e. in derivatives. That is why the LDS will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Zagorac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. Given that the amendments under points 1, 2 and 3 have not been adopted to delete the third paragraph, in the Lipa Group we cannot support such a legal solution, which in fact contradicts what the Government has been predicting for three years, the real competitiveness of the Slovenian market, so we are talking about the financial market, the market of derivative financial instruments. And if we want to be competitive with anyone in Europe, we must not play with a 40% tax rate on optional transactions that only deals with a certain percentage of speculators in both Europe and Slovenia. With these transactions, when it comes to executed financial instruments, it's not about someone with shares getting rich. You probably don't get it. It's not about shares, I stress once again, it's not about capital returns when someone with "insider" information about a certain security that he knows will be irritable in two months, pays today and sells in two months. We don't burden him with anything at all. And everyone who thinks that way thinks you're wrong. This destroys the Slovenian financial market and the possibility of foreign influence in the Slovenian financial market through the derivatives that exist. Once again, it's optional transactions, not stock. So, please, before you vote on anything, think about what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u223	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. There are 70 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 14. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act is not suitable for further consideration. Anyone want a word on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr. Squeakle? Yes or no? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u224	We estimate that, of course, you are not exactly the one, but especially the Government, which says that marriage is not necessary. We estimate that, of course, it is good to adopt the law that is proposed, especially because it will clearly determine how these unfortunate decisions are. So, watch out, you're leaving something behind again, in narration, in your own interpretation, but do you know, when the minister says something, then even though the law is proposed and if the arguments are still so strong, the coalition obviously follows this will of the minister, even though this minister obviously didn't know what it was about. I think there will be a lot going on in this year's history of income and income decisions. People with these income decisions pay in particular this year because the government has decided to give a large tax gift. And by taxing agricultural subsidies that were not even paid, introducing flat-rate payments, bills, of course, that is not correct. The proposal for a law with these additions to the Income Law would, of course, solve this. The proposal of the parent working body that this law is not appropriate, however, opens up a lot of room for interpretation and will also happen this year, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u225	Thank you very much. We can move on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 27. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on transparency of financial relations and the separate recording of various activities, following a reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 33rd item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the Annual Plan for the Real Estate of the State, worth more than 300,000 euros per annum for the public administration and for the judicial authorities for 2008. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - this is the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the General Administrative Procedure Act, following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Court Register, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. In doing so, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 63 against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 12th item of the agenda - secondly, the draft law on the temporary prohibition of the production of genetically modified plants, the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a temporary ban on the production of genetically modified plants is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted for 38 to 22. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the draft law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idri mercury mine. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idri mercury mine, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Samo Bevk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u226	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In its opinion, the government did not support this law. The main argument of the Government and, consequently, of the representatives of the ruling coalition following this opinion was that the existing law and regulation adopted in the spring contain all these legal standards, which are written in the draft law that we discussed this afternoon and which I sent to the government about a month ago. It just doesn't hold. The government's opinion is not real and it's misleading. Indeed, the Regulation provides for the establishment of an information and research centre for mercury, but without the means to operate it. The most important novelty in the law, which the Government has not even talked about in its opinion, is that it includes compensation for limited use of space, due to movements, due to emissions of mercury into the environment, due to radioactive radiation, due to landfills of mining manure, which is burdened with radon. And on the basis of this standard of compensation for limited use of space, this law would provide 4 million 200 000 euros a year. For example, as the Government has determined by regulation the amount of compensation for the limited use of space in the Uranium Mine, Žirovski vrh for the municipality of Gorenje Vas Poljane, amounting to EUR 4 million for 2008. Of course, one congregation is allowed to do so, the other is not. The government rejects the law, which would also allow the municipality of Idrija, although it is environmentally more burdensome than the Urana Žirovski vrh area. Moreover, this law also provides the means to remedy the effects of ionizing radiation and the health care of residents or former miners still living around 700. I propose, my fellow Members and colleagues, that despite the negative opinion of the Government, which is misleading and falsely supported by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-18-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u227	Thank you. Can we move on to a decision? We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 38. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm also adjourning the 40th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Goodbye.
