ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the first extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Mr Alexander Ravnikar, Mr Janez Janša, Mr Franz Pukšič and Mr France Cukjati. As you can see, the new secretary-general, Mrs Mojca Prelešnik, is with us. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Banking Act, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u2	President-in-Office, Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and all the others who are participating in today's meeting of the National Assembly! The proposed amendment to the Banking Act was approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 14 October 2008 and forwarded to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. Allow me to present the main solutions set out in this bill below. The proposal for a law constitutes a preventive response to the current unpredictability of financial markets and follows the decisions adopted at the Ecofin of the European Union’s Ministers of Finance in Luxembourg 7. Ten. 2008 when a detailed discussion was held on the short-term responses to the crisis in the financial markets and it was agreed that Member States would increase the range of guarantees for depositors to a minimum of EUR 50,000 or more for a period of at least one year, if necessary. The developments have clearly demonstrated that, in terms of the stability of our banking system, action must be taken immediately. In the last days of September, the Irish Government introduced a time-limited 100% guarantee for deposits in domestic banks in its territory. Corrections were followed, among which it is most important that such a guarantee be extended to all banking institutions in their territory. On Sunday, 5 October 2008, the German government announced the same approach. At the meetings of the finance ministers of the Eurogroup and Ecofin on 6 and 7 October, the above-mentioned conclusions were adopted in Luxembourg. On October 7th, the German government confirmed its already announced position. The following day, October 8th, the Austrian government adopted a decision in the morning, which was also legal in the following days, namely 100% guarantee of all bank deposits in its territory. On that day, at 20:00 hours, Mr Banka Slovenije and I announced the same measure in Slovenia after a detailed and direct consultation with the President of the Government. The data clearly show that the potential changes in the deposit structure have not occurred to us and that the forecast itself has been extremely effective. In the coming days, the government has adopted a bill that is now under your consideration. The aim of the bill is to strengthen the level of protection of savers and to ensure appropriate competitive conditions for the operation of banks established in the Republic of Slovenia. The main purpose of the adoption of the law is to avoid a fall in the confidence of savers in the Slovenian banking system. The bill also follows the measures taken by neighbouring countries, including with a view to equalising or improving the competitive operating conditions of banks established in the Republic of Slovenia against the branches of banks of EU Member States. The draft law was discussed yesterday by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, which adopted certain amendments. Although the obligation of banks to guarantee payment of individual guaranteed deposits up to a net amount of up to EUR 22 000 is maintained so far, the proposal provides that the Republic of Slovenia guarantees even if banks established in the Republic of Slovenia are unable to provide sufficient funds for the payment of guaranteed deposits, with the Bank of Slovenia establishing such a situation as to guarantee the Republic of Slovenia in this case. However, the introduction of an unlimited guarantee for net bank deposits to beneficiaries under Article 310 of the Banking Act is an essential part of the proposal. The draft law provides that the remaining guaranteed deposit with the bank on which the bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated, in so far as the net position of the beneficiary referred to in Article 310 of this Act exceeds EUR 22,000, guaranteed by the Republic of Slovenia. It is also expressly stipulated that the amended method of guarantee for bank deposits applies up to 31. 12. 2010 However, the Ministry of Finance undertakes to examine the financial market situation in 2009 and 2010 in cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia. On the basis of the situations identified, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia may then propose amending the law accordingly amending the amount of the guarantee or the period of validity of that guarantee. The financial market situation and any action taken will be reported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly, at least once every three months. We believe that the law is a good basis for a comparable level of protection of savers and will also help to maintain and strengthen confidence in the Slovenian banking system. I therefore propose that the National Assembly adopt a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I'm giving the president a word. To Anton Rope for presentation of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u4	Dear Members. In the context of the 1st meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, 10th meeting is necessary. 11. 2008 examined the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banking Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The main objective of the bill is to ensure that, despite the tight global financial situation, we provide a sufficient level of protection for savers while ensuring appropriate competitive conditions for banks established in the Republic of Slovenia and thereby strengthening the confidence of savers in the Slovenian banking system. This proposal introduces the basic principle of ensuring unlimited, unlimited protection for banking deposits, ensuring competitive operating conditions for banks and savings banks established in the Republic of Slovenia, maintaining and strengthening confidence in the Slovenian banking system. They shall take into account the Ecofin Decision and the amendments tabled. The amended proposal of the law before you provides for the validity of an unlimited guarantee at least until 31. 12. 2010 The Ministry of Finance will examine the financial market situation in cooperation with the Bank of Slovenia, following a proposal for a law in 2009 and 2010, and will propose appropriate changes to the law, if necessary and reasonably, on the basis of the situations identified. Although the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, at least once every three months after the application of this proposal, on the situation in the financial market and on any action taken. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the text submitted from the point of view of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical point of view. In the context of the general comments of the PSC, in addition to mentioning the necessary correction of the title, the lack of clarity or the substantive uncertainty of the solutions and the solutions proposed. On this basis, the committee, at the initiative of the SD, Res, LDS and DeSUS coalition groups, addressed, and adopted, proposals for amendments to the Committee to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the legislative proposal. There shall be 10 qualified candidates. 11. The SDS MP Group tabled an amendment to Article 2 of the legislative proposal and the amendment was adopted by the Committee. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which the amendments adopted are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is, however, an integral part of this report. Dear Members. I appreciate that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banking Act before us is an appropriate and timely systemic response to the challenges and problems facing Slovenian banks during this time. The answer is clear to Slovenian savers, Slovenian citizens and citizens. It reports that their roles are safe and guaranteed to an unlimited extent by the State. Slovenia therefore joins most of the members of the European Union, who responded promptly and appropriately to the global crisis of the financial system. I suggest we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr. Matej Lahovnik has the word on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Dear Members, honourable Mr President! In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal of this law. We believe that the situation is such, especially in international financial markets, that it is necessary for the Slovenian State to send a clear message that bank deposits in Slovenian banks are completely safe. We therefore support the proposal for a law that introduces the State's full guarantee of bank deposits, and we also positively assess the position or decision of the Committee which commissioned the Ministry of Finance to examine the situation and, if necessary, take action in 2009 and 2010 with the Bank of Slovenia, as the law is currently in force until the end of 2010. Some other countries, neighbouring countries, have also adopted a similar law, and if we want the banking role not to flow abroad and that the population has confidence in the Slovenian banking system, then such a guarantee is necessary and I believe it will contribute to even greater stability of the Slovenian financial system and that is why we will also support the proposal of the Act in the Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everyone. Let me also convey the brief position of the DeSUS Group, which supports the Government's intention to take action as soon as possible through an urgent procedure that will facilitate the current situation and ensure what is the basic objective. The main purpose is to ensure that these applications are as secure as possible and at the same time to ensure investor confidence in the banking system and the future system and to enable adequate competitiveness for banks based in our country. In doing so, it must be said or recalled that what is envisaged is, in fact, preventive action, following some other measures, as has already been said in our neighbourhood, in order to prevent the possible deepening of the crisis, in order to prevent the possible establishment of mistrust and also to ensure greater security and competitiveness of our environment, as has been said several times today. The average situation as we know it today is that we have little confidence in the system we are talking about. That we did not have a defection, that there was no spill and that because it was in principle a feeling of our investors, a relative security and confidence in the system we have. It is necessary to make sure that we do not have any wrong measures to cause us to be hectic, hot-tempered by our investors and to make them think about whether they have done the right thing so far when they have believed in our system and when they have not exceeded their resources. We will certainly support this bill in the parliamentary group, even after it has been complemented by some proposals on the home working body, especially for the sake of ensuring this unlimited guarantee, from nothing to infinity, because in the meantime it is only a requirement that from 22,000 euros continue to decide on this on the basis of the Bank of Slovenia proposal. So, we estimate that our system is appropriate, that the roles are guaranteed and secure, that the behaviour of our savers in these facts will not change and that we will therefore preserve the security of our role and the competitiveness of our environment. The DeSUS Group therefore supports this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today there are two important laws before us, the first is the Proposal for a Law amending the Banking Act and the second on public finances. We're all going to be together more or less; well, probably not with the other. In this law, which we are now talking about, namely the amendment of the Banking Act, the story is quite clear. According to homework, "People who accompany us or read the report on the work of the National Assembly, the country is working preventively for the first time." Let it be clear, there is no crisis yet and we are acting preventively. And it's just that we're preemptive in time. Secondly, the law we are talking about, which I am sure of - I am talking about the Banking Act - that we will all support it, in particular protect you, all savers and savers in this country, in two ways. For the first time, this law requires the banks you trust - we know that Slovenians have an average of 8,000 euros per person saved money on banks - that this money is safe, safe and will be. And secondly, although I was a little surprised at my mother's working body that the bank representative wasn't exactly thrilled. And this law is important for it not to happen if there happens to be a collapse of any bank, that "Yes, and now no one is to blame, what we will do now, how people will get the money back." No, no, no. It is quite clear that, whenever anything happens, I believe that this law will not be required by the State, and this is clearly stated in this law, and so it will be. However, in anticipation - I speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party - that banks will of course not take advantage of this, because I am sure that the roles will be safe, remain as safe as they are so far, that people still trust our banks to deal with your money economically. Whatever happens, the state guarantees. Of course, to the banks another call, as I said yesterday on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I hope and wish that they do not take advantage of it. The Slovenian National Party will clearly support the proposal for a law amending the Banking Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav, on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Members of the Slovenian People's Party supported the candidate for a mandate on Friday for the reason that the Government is formed and facing a global financial crisis or, rather, an economic crisis already in effect in Slovenia. In the context of solving the problems of this crisis, we are also adopting this law, which is now before us and which has already been drawn up by the government in its departure. The bill responds to the current unpredictability of financial markets and follows the decisions adopted at Ecofin, the European Union's financial ministers' meeting, a good month ago. The bill is important for several reasons. In this uncertain financial situation, it preserves and strengthens confidence in the Slovenian banking system, which in fact lives on two sources and one of the key are bank deposits of Slovenk and Slovenes. If this law did not introduce an unlimited guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the net deposits of the population, there would be a great risk that deposits from our banking system would begin to flow into systems that provide better guarantees than Slovenia has. They would not have run very far, given that Austria and Germany have already adopted the same principle of unlimited guarantee. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the solution to protect the interest of Slovenian savers and Slovenian banks and we will unanimously support this temporary raise of guarantees for the population's banking roles. The message must therefore be today: The roles of Slovenk and Slovenes in Slovenian banks are safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Katarina Kresal has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u14	Thank you so much for your words, Mr President! Colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendments to the Banking Act, as it follows our assessment of the changes that are necessary to ensure stability and maintain confidence in our financial system, especially in our banks. The Council is facing a major economic crisis, a major financial crisis that is moving very quickly into the real sector. And it's right that people trust that their savings in our banks are safe. Trust is one of the most important elements of the smooth functioning of financial markets and financial institutions. Today, the whole world is solving financial problems with coordinated measures that guarantee both liquidity and maintain confidence in the financial system. Not least have other European countries joined such measures, including those which are important business partners of Slovenia. The proposed resolution of the Banking Act on unlimited guarantee for all applications is necessary. Following the adoption of the amendments, banks will be able to continue normally lending to the population, and it is particularly important that the economy is also credited. In order to prevent the economic crisis, it is crucial that we create such confidence in the economy as a whole. Such confidence will again enable businesses to obtain credits for their business continuity. In this crisis, companies faced reduced demand for their production. Additional pressure on businesses, by not having liquid assets to operate, would put them in even greater difficulty. This would be reflected in the fall in their business activities and consequently in the increase in unemployment in Slovenia. However, it is of paramount importance that these measures are also implemented quickly and effectively in practice. This applies in particular to those parts of the provisions that will be adopted in the amendment of the Public Finance Act, since the Banka Slovenije, the Insurance and Reinsurance Agency and the Pension Funds of the Securities Market Agency are involved in any action that may be taken. The coordination of all these institutions is very important, especially for the Ministry of Finance, because these institutions are well aware of the work of these entities. We also stress that it is extremely important that the measures are operationalised as soon as possible. In such a way that the possible use of some, in particular guarantees for a source of banks abroad, could thus expire. This will not be enough, this is the first step, and in a period of deepening the crisis ahead of us, more needs to be done for the system than that. Economic growth must be encouraged, both the population and the economy must continue to be taxed and structural measures must be put in place to increase the competitiveness of the economy, these are the real results that lie ahead of this government. Since it believes that the proposed measures in the Banking Act are necessary to maintain confidence in our banking system, the Liberal Democracy Club will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u15	Thank you very much. He has the text on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Dr. Franz the Crusader. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u16	The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a bill amending and supplementing the Banking Act. I would use this introduction to tell you the context in which this law is being passed, partly because this discussion will continue under the next law, the Public Finance Act. This is a typical occurrence of systemic risk in the modern world, a risk arising from the interconnection of economic operators around the world. And this interconnection takes place partly through capital connections, through credits and plasmas. In part, by directly affecting expectations and then in this hyper-automatic world, the impact of expectations back on the activity of economic operators who may not have any direct interaction at all. Thus, the financial crises of the modern world are practically widening and deepening, without an appropriate economic policy action, as well as coordinated economic policy actions can lead to a very long and deep economic stalemate. We saw the first case of such a crisis in 1929. Modern crises, which we have already had, say in 1987, then in 1998, are even more dangerous in nature, but the response of economic policy to them has been more combined, stronger and has therefore addressed them more quickly. We can ask ourselves why we did not eliminate this crisis, looking at the world as quickly as we did in 1987 or 1998. The reason was in the specific nature of the economic cycle, we can say medium-term. From 2001 to 2008, an extremely rapid economic growth took place, in which part of the economic operators became over-indebted. There have been inflationary pressures in the field of food and oil. This resulted in a central bank response by raising interest rates and following the collapse of the mortgage market, when certain people were unable to settle higher interest rates, followed the first wave of the financial crisis. While the countries responded quickly enough to this crisis, they did not respond quickly enough to prevent bank failures that were affected, but not quickly enough to prevent banks from getting married. This phenomenon is called 'credit crunch', and the banks responded to the increased risk by increasing their reservations, by reducing their credit activity and then by January, February of this year, it had an impact on the decline in the value of shares in global markets, then on the fall of wealth and is now being transferred to the real sector in the third wave, to the downsizing of orders, as Mrs Katarina Kresal previously said. It is said that a few recognises the reaction or the lack of response at the right time has caused an extension of the crisis. In the last wave, however, this crisis is prolonging, according to this autumn, there has been further deepening because economic policy has not responded correctly to the break of one of Lemans Brothers banks. These banks started to fall because they misplaced their capital. And because she hasn't responded to Lemans' brother's fracture, there's been a new wave of financial crisis that we've just witnessed. The response of Slovenian economic policy to the financial crisis is only one of the economic policy responses. Only coordinated action in the world and the European Union will prevent its consequences. And this is the first law that we have drafted together - the outgoing government and the candidates or Pahor's team for a new government. I think the supplements of the marriage are good. The predecessors have already said what they serve - serve the security of our banking system, the security of deposits, prevent any panic in this area, and thereby hold back as much of the normal functioning of our capital market as possible, at least on the part based on bank placements and further on the placement of these savings into the economy. Other measures will also be needed, and another law is inevitable, so I expect you to support another law. In the meantime, we have made some amendments, so in the second part of the discussion, I will discuss the amendments in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u18	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Everyone else is present. The earthquakes in the global and European financial markets, which we witnessed a good month ago, also seriously threatened the Slovenian financial or banking system. At least as far as the latter is concerned, the most important response and prevention of panic is in such situations. The Government or President Janez Janša and the Finance Minister, Mr Andrej Bajuk, responded quickly and responsibly - with the public assurance given at the beginning of October about the unlimited guarantee of bank savings and not only EUR 22,000, as provided by the law in force. A minimum of confidence was created that prevented uncontrolled and panicky reactions of savers that we have seen in some other countries. Therefore, it may sound paradoxical, but you will agree with me that it is true - the effects of the law that we are adopting today are already being consumed to the greatest extent, even though it has not yet been adopted. Of course, to prevent or neutralize the consequences of the global financial crisis, which is increasingly being passed on to the real sector, only a change to this law will not suffice. Today, we still have in the legislative procedure an amendment to the Public Finance Act, and the government of Janez Janša has adopted and has already tabled in the legislative procedure amendments to the Law on Income and amending the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. Both laws aim at taxing the population and businesses and entrepreneurs, with the aim of supporting investment in technological development and modernising production, thereby neutralising the consequences of the economic crisis, which is reflected in smaller orders and reduced consumption. All these changes, however, represent only the most basic measures to be taken as soon as possible. In these circumstances, respectable ones are not expected to tell us that those who have been entrusted with the responsibility to lead the country have more questions than the answers to them. They are expected to provide very clear answers and very concrete measures as soon as possible to prevent the negative effects of the global crisis on our economy and thus on the situation of our citizens and citizens. The government of Janez Janša operates with limited powers, we all know that. It is also not right for a government that has only a mandate until the composition of the new government to propose measures that will have an impact on the implementation of policies in many areas in the new mandate. This is a matter for those who were given the confidence of voters in the 21st September elections to exercise responsibility for running the country. For this reason, it is also not a good time to amend the laws extending the privileges of certain groups in this country. Such a law is the Law amending the Law on Members, which we have today on the table, which is proposed by the new coalition's parliamentary groups with the Social Democrats in charge. It is time to make laws that will prevent or maximize the impact of the global economic crisis on us. Slovenia has several advantages compared to the many countries affected by the crisis. The financial crisis does not leave such consequences in the banking area as in other countries, we have a relatively low public debt per capita compared to other countries, stable public finances and a second year of government surplus. Extremely high economic growth in recent years, a substantial increase in the number of employees and the low unemployment rate are the foundations on which the new government can build an effective policy of action that will maximise the impact of the global situation in our area. However, such measures are necessary as we are part of the European and global economic and financial system. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, it is high time to assume responsibility. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the amendment of the Banking Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the basis of a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Public Finance Act, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Bajuk, Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! You have before you the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Public Finance, which represents a response to the current unpredictability of financial markets and follows the conclusions adopted by the former ministers of finance of the Member States of the European Union, Ecofin, Luxembourg 7. 10. and a statement on a coordinated plan of action to address the financial crisis adopted at the summit of the European Monetary Union 12. 10. in Paris, also endorsed by the conclusions of the European Council in Brussels on 15 and 16. Ten. 2008 Let me also explain that this proposal is a result of cooperation and work on the basis of a meeting convened by Mr Janša, Prime Minister Janez Janša, when he invited the most likely candidate at that time, today the mandate-holder, Mr Borut Pahor, and his colleagues to a meeting where they explained all these conclusions and developments, as the Government has understood and understood. On the basis of all these meetings and European-level breakfasts, we also prepared this proposal, which was discussed yesterday at the extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Finance. The exceptional situation in the financial markets requires the implementation of exceptional measures coordinated at the level of the Member States of the European Union. The measures, however, cover the possibility of increasing the country's capital investments, lending to banks and other financial institutions and issuing state guarantees. The guarantee will be received under this law exclusively by credit institutions, in accordance with the provisions of the Banking Act, established in the Republic of Slovenia. The beneficiaries of loans and capital investments will, in addition to these credit institutions, also be insurance, reinsurance and pension companies established in the Republic of Slovenia, if this proves necessary. The beneficiaries of this law are expected to have access to liquidity and to help establish an interbank market. In view of the overall volatility of the financial markets and to avoid unnecessary, unjustified doubts about stability, the effectiveness of the Slovenian financial system, it is also necessary to provide in the Republic of Slovenia an opportunity to use measures that, if necessary, could ensure the stability of the Slovenian financial system. The assumption that these measures will be effective is also an opportunity to be implemented quickly. In order to implement such measures, it is necessary to provide a legal basis for additional dedicated debt and guarantees on the level envisaged so far, established by the Public Finance Act and the State Budget Implementation Act, without prior adoption of the balance. The measures will be based on an irreplaceable and mandatory assessment of the appropriateness and necessity of these measures by supervisory institutions. The signatory to the guarantees will, on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, be the Minister responsible for the finance. Debts will be issued for the purpose of borrowing in a financial or interbank market where all liabilities to other financial companies are considered, except liabilities under structured financial instruments, subordinated liabilities of the credit institution and liabilities to the parent. The guarantees will be issued for obligations ranging from three months to five years. The guarantees will be charged on the basis of the recommendations of the European Central Bank, the Ministry of Finance will be obliged to amend the price list every six months. Where the Ministry of Finance determines, on the basis of the documentation referred to in the preceding paragraph and on the basis of an assessment by the supervisory institution, that the credit institution fulfils the conditions for obtaining the guarantee, it may propose to the Government that it may decide by decision on the issue of the guarantee. The Government may, depending on the type of measure, the extent of the aid and the reasons for the action, adopt restrictions on the remuneration of the company’s leading persons, including the options for company shares, restrictions on the payment of dividends and restrictions on other shareholders’ rights and other operating restrictions established under this Act by regulations. The limits shall be extended until the capital investment has been resold or the credit repayments referred to in Article 1 at the latest. Reporting to the National Assembly will be the same as in the Banking Act that has just been dealt with. On the basis of communications with the European Central Bank and the European Commission, the provisions will have an effect until 31 December 2010. The law before you is the result, as I mentioned, of the participation of the parties involved, its actions will mitigate the financial crisis and help to increase the level of financing for the economy and, consequently, economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The law was regarded by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give my word to the president, mag. To Anton Rope, to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 1st urgent session. 11. 2008 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Finance, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration, with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of the law submitted under the urgent procedure. The Committee received an opinion from the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law submitted from the point of view of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. In the context of the general comments annexed to the Act, the Service drew attention to that part of the law relating to the implementation of the Constitution. The service shall specify this indication in more detail, in the context of specific comments, the provisions of Articles 2, 3, 4 and 5. The service assesses that, from a systemic point of view, it would be more appropriate to deal with material which is clearly of an intervention nature in its entirety, perhaps as a specific section of the current law or as a specific law. The proposed law was tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party and the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party within the time limit of business. The Committee has also been asked to consider and propose proposals from the parliamentary groups of the Social Democrats, Res, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, to the provisions of Articles 2, 3, 4 and 6 of the draft law. Dear Members and honourable Members! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act is of paramount importance. If the amendment of the Banking Act provides for the necessary security and stability of bank deposits in Slovenia, then the amendments to the Public Finance Act provide for an urgent set of measures by the Slovenian State to ensure that Slovenian banks have access to the international banking market, their competitiveness and the security of their business. It is important, as has already been said today, that the law before us is the result of prior coordination between representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the present, future governments and also the Bank of Slovenia. It is important that we have before us a compromise, consensus and that we are united on the key measures to be taken in these times. In particular, at the meeting of the Committee, the representative of the Bank of Slovenia drew attention to the importance of the proposed solutions and the urgency of their adoption as soon as possible. Due to bank borrowing abroad, the consequences of developments in international financial markets, accompanied by recession and uncertainty, also affected Slovenia's financial system. Without the measures envisaged, banks would be increasingly difficult to lend to the economy, so these sources need to be replaced immediately. However, the measures envisaged will only be effective if they are complementary, consistent and, if possible, implemented immediately, as assessed by the Bank of Slovenia. In the debate on individual proposed solutions, the Committee members focused on Articles 2 and 3 and on the proposed amendments to these Articles. In particular, a great deal of debate was held in the context of Article 3 of the draft law when individual debaters pointed out the correctness and importance of the constitutionality of the proposed solution, with regard to the implementation of solutions by the Government or the Ministry of Finance, to which the Legislative and Legal Service refers in its opinion. On these issues, the Committee, on the one hand, expressed the conviction of some discussers that the State guarantee under the Constitution could only be obtained on the basis of a decision of the National Assembly. On the other hand, among the proponents of the solution that the guarantee can be implemented by the Government or the Ministry of Finance, the need for intervention of the proposed measures, which, due to the seriousness or exceptionalness of the situation in which we are, dictates the need for more operational temporary solutions. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Dear Members and Members! The Banking Act means security. The Public Finance Act, however, means the necessary instruments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which need to be adopted, implemented and which can, of course, ensure the stability and security of the Slovenian financial system. I hope that some amendments will be adopted, which will also actually allow us to adopt this law in the form that is necessary and that it can actually be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u24	Thank you very much again. If we have found in the previous law that the savers have responded calmly to the difficult situation, then we can now say that the economy does not have so much time to wait for the signal it will receive from the National Assembly. For we adopt this law in special circumstances - special circumstances, in fact a euphemistic term, some prefer to use the term crisis or problems, and they certainly do, perhaps more in the world or certainly more in the world than in us. And we already have a flash of what happened somewhere else. It may not be too much to recall some of the thoughts that may have sounded dramatic and that we could read and talked about and wondered whether it might be a flood of the west or Chicago pattern. It may not be too much to imagine with some who remind us that a period is coming after America. Or it would be hard to say that a mistake was made about 30 years ago or that it was not the wrong assessment that states could not help solve problems or that countries were the cause of problems. Today, such thoughts no longer appear. Not in Slovenia either. And in this sense, our government has put in place measures to deny this too much faith in neoliberal models. So, the State of Action proposes to take action and does not wait for the invisible deadline to settle everything. And we in the Desus Group support these measures, which are proposed, too. It is fair to say that we have had doubts about the proposal, as well as amendments by both the SDS and the four parliamentary groups, which have somehow tried to circumvent the Constitution or suspend its individual standards, but in the home labour body it has come to the point that this flaw, which has also been pointed out by the Law and Law Service, has been rectified. I believe that the amendments that have just come to the table, which we have not yet been able to read well, are also aimed in this direction to help. However, we estimate that it is right for the Government to propose measures that will allow for greater lending, greater collateral, more capital investments in order to cool down this investment cycle, the financial cycle, the financial cycle and the real-economy and employment economies, however, so that this negative spiral does not go too far. If these measures are appropriate or not, they will confirm the future when they are implemented, and we in the Desus Group believe that the Government's proposals are correct and that we will support them for this reason, in order to give a clear signal to the economy and in order to stop these negative trends that we are witnessing to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. But it's not as simple as we've heard before. This law concerns three issues, three essential elements. The first measure is the granting of State guarantees to domestic banks when new loans are being leased abroad. Four billion euros, according to the latest data, our banks have obligations abroad. Why? Because Mrs. Managers can list them to you, Mercator, Istrabenz, went, rented loans to banks, bought equity shares and now sell them at three times the price, but these measures, and this first measure is that we, taxpayers, we, the country, will save the tycoons who bought, lease credits, and buy equity loans. This is the truth, this is what is said at home, everything that is so beautifully written in this law, and we are convinced of this in the Slovenian National Party. In other words, these measures save banks that have shared favourable credits to some of the gentlemen I have already mentioned that I will not mention them with names and surnames. 8 billion euros provides for the first measure, 8 billion euros, which means 20% of Slovenia's gross social product and we heard yesterday's finances about how America did this a little bit ahead of us and now, of course, we're turning to America because it's not true, America did the same thing, but only 10% of their gross social product is burdened by such a measure and our 20, by the way. Thirdly, with all these three measures envisaged, the story is quite simple: Take the burden on taxpayers, if you do not, there will be a financial crisis, there will be a collapse, or you will be killed anyway. If you will, then give us the money, no, give us the credit, pay us now all that the gentlemen "cassed" put in equity shares, owned and now sold at three times the price. Now, by this law, we will, by this law. Please, where else have you seen this? But if you don't, we're going to fail and what's left of us, of course, to say yes, we have to give. But we will not give, in fact, on condition that we are lending now after all three measures of this law, that we, who will now give, eight billion and so on all the guarantees of three measures to give this as a loan to return and how to return - both colleagues and colleagues, as it says, or will write to you in the amendment that we tabled yesterday, has been reviewed on the committee, and as it says today in the amendment that you will or have already received on the table, the amendment of the Slovenian National Party to Article 2. The amendment clearly says, yes, if we adopt this law, of course this is just a loan that you will repay to us and we will become co-owners of the stake. All of us. All of us. That's the point of this marriage. Unless this amendment is adopted, the Slovenian National Party will be strictly against this law, and there will be a lot more to say clearly than at this moment. We will use this law to pay credits to all gentlemen, who, once again, I stress, are deliberately and in principle hired to purchase the equity shares they are selling today at three, four times the price. When it comes to "puf", they will have no money, and the state will give it, not the state, the taxpayer, every worker who works. But if you don't, it says in this law between the lines, the worker, but if you don't, you're going to fail. And do we make laws like that? Yesterday, once again, our amendment, which requires that this money be returned, that the state owns it, that it be put into some fund, wherever it is, and that all of us who have given it will also receive it in profit from that money. Let's get it back to everyone who gets it, not just give it back, lose it, get it in the air. And once again, 20% means what is written in this law, the gross social product of the State of Slovenia. America, which in fact caused this crisis, a big, beautiful country, gave only 10% of its money, and it needs to be imagined. The Slovenian national party will adopt this law if you adopt its amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav, on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Once again, dear fellows and colleagues! As has already been said, the Slovenian banking system lives on two key sources. The first is the population deposits, which we have actually talked about and decided on in the preliminary proposal of the law and the second interbank loans. In the current situation, the interbank market is not functioning, it is in collapse. The banks don't know which bank is in trouble, so no one trusts anyone and nothing is actually moving in this area. To overcome this situation, which is essential for the functioning of our banking system, it is necessary to allow the State to provide a guarantee for these transactions in the international banking market. Loans or guarantees are crucial, and the law also allows for an increase in the country's capital investment, if necessary. The effects of the financial crisis are principles of confidence of depositors, investors, businesses in the ability of the financial system to continue to play its important role. The purpose of this law is, therefore, to preserve the economy, access to finance, business and, above all, investment, which is crucial. The measures provided for in this Act therefore constitute a response to the current unpredictability of financial markets and, together with the previous law, provide an appropriate basis for resolving any crisis situations in the Republic of Slovenia. We will also support this bill in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Finally, let me say that we can be extremely happy that the key Slovenian banks are still in Slovenian ownership, which is always supported by the Slovenian People's Party. Now we see how good some other foreign banks are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Sajovic, Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Also a nice greeting to the Minister with his co-worker. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, when a good master is in front of the door of winter, he prepares himself for it as is necessary and the measures taken by the outgoing and incoming government are in place, appropriate, essential for life and, above all, expected. This, of course, is not the time to spread alarming stories that do not last and to gain political points. What's this all about? It is a moment when it is necessary for the state to say that it is behind the economy, behind the banks and behind our system. And in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are convinced that we have a stable system. To make things better and easier, however, it is necessary for the state to be behind it with guarantees. The measures proposed to limit the impact of the financial crisis are primarily necessary to provide additional funding to banks. This must also be reflected in the positive effect further, of course, on loans, savings banks, the economy and, last but not least, on any of our citizens and citizens who will need help. The law also allows the provision of funds through State loans and through capital investments to the State in the form of external recapitalisation. That's important, too. This will give banks sufficient liquidity to manage their activities. However, if we want the system to be understood by each of our citizens and citizens, we can illustrate it by a practical example of a family that would have to be in charge of an emergency, for example, the first housing case, with one of our banks, for example, some 7.8 percent interest rate. And if, of course, this interest rate was flexible and if the bank could not service it itself, it would be forced to borrow on the external banking interstate market, then the interest rate could be twice or three times higher there. However, if the guarantee costs, the guarantee of the State of Slovenia, behind our banks, we will, of course, allow such a family to be credited under normal conditions that enable all to survive. And that's what this is all about. These solutions, for which all of us in Slovenia have found consensus on an agreed, acceptable, normal way by all five Members and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, will be supported because they are good for this country because they are good for these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franc Križanič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u32	Your Honor! The Socialists' Group will support the amended bill on amendments and amendments to the Public Finance Act with the amendments we have received on the table. Otherwise, we must decide which one, but at least two will be supported with certainty. I'd say so much, it's not a rescue law, it's not a law that allows someone who's invested in the wrong, to get through the economic crisis and to survive. It is a law that enables healthy work, a competitive part of the economy, to survive the financial crisis, to survive the sudden disruption of capital flows. It is clear that expectations and experiences from the past teach us that these capital flows will be restored after the crisis. This may take a few months, may last longer if some economic policy errors occur, in particular those from the largest countries. And once again, this is not about saving someone who has an inadequate product, an inadequate service that does not find a market for their services and products, this is about ensuring the normal functioning of the financial system during its major crisis, which comes from the world market situation, but I have already outlined them in the introduction to the proposed amendments to the Banks Act. It's two measures. The first measure allows the State to react directly to capital deposits. This allows us a relatively small indebtedness of Slovenia, we believe that it is possible to transfer one part of the funding through the country's debt to that part of the financial system, the eligible credit institutions are listed, that is, those controlled by the Bank of Slovenia, insurance companies and pension companies, so that their serious liquidity problems do not arise. We're saving liquidity, not solvency. It is expected that this first measure under Article 81a will be applied in particular to smaller institutions that are more difficult to perform on the capital market, even if they have a State guarantee. The larger, more established national institutions will apply Article 2, which is the amendment of Article 86a or Article 3 of this amendment. Here, too, the Group of Social Democrats has tabled an amendment to this amendment, which we will discuss later, which would simplify the procedure a little bit, and yet very precisely specify it, it is said that this procedure would be more precisely defined in this law. I would like to discuss this more after we discuss the proposal. We will support this complementary proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u34	Dear Members, Members, Honourable President, Honourable Minister with Fellow Members! We will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. The financial sector as a whole, the financial industry is in a frenzy. From everywhere I get information that it is virtually impossible to rent credits for good projects, including good companies with the best ratings, because of this collapse of the financial sector is a serious problem. Without normal business, we know that the logic of business is very dependent on debt capital, both short-term and long-term, short-term assets, for some short-term needs, long-term for emergency development projects. And if we look and wait silently, then this spasm will leave worse and deeper consequences in the economy, in the real sector, and we must not afford it. Therefore, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, the government has taken these measures and proposed them to Parliament, in cooperation with the coalition groups now. It is a pity, however, that these measures are lonely, that they do not upgrade these measures with the new and new measures required by the Slovenian economic and financial system to match the challenges of the crisis, which you do not want to move to us because of the openness of the Slovenian economy. I must also say and express some kind of concern and dissatisfaction that even when we read the upcoming new coalitions and governments, let us not see any concrete proposals on how to develop from this crisis and how to enable the Slovenian economy to develop. If there is anything and where it is necessary to be concrete in the coalition treaty, it would be considered very specific in this area. I therefore suggest that you seriously face the coming ones, who bear all the responsibility for the future, even with this. We will come with proposals because we think this is also our mission, but I think it is primarily yours. This is certainly one of the welcome messages to the Slovenian financial sector, that the back is shielded, that the country will jump with various measures, instruments, if the financial sector needs it within its tasks, that is, servicing the Slovenian economy. But this measure is just a positive message, which is not enough. If Slovenian bankers, as so far as they have, do not lend it to the Slovenian economy under appropriate conditions, if the purpose of the law does not reach the real sector and the Slovenian economy or the Slovenian economy, then we have unfortunately done too little. Let this law also tell Slovenian banks that they are open to Slovenian economic operators to lend money according to established methods. Remember six months ago, there was money on the Slovenian financial market as much as you wanted. The economy had it at its disposal, and today the same economic operator with the same balance sheet, with the same credit ratings, has closed doors. And that's not right. And the purpose of this law is to cut these things off. Just one more thing. There was a lot of talk on the Committee on Finance about whether to empower the Government to approve these guarantees. We've actually stumbled upon a constitutional restriction here. The Constitution says that the guarantee can only be granted by law, i.e. in this House, but I think that with some expediency of the government, regulators and policy, to do so extremely quickly, even in one day. Thank you very much. We will support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dr. Matej Lahovnik has the word on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Dear Members. In the Group of Members, we will, of course, support the proposal for this law, because we believe that it responds adequately to the current situation in the international financial markets. The fact is that Slovenian banks are also heavily indebted in international financial markets and that access to these resources is conditional on whether the State guarantees the guarantee or not. We therefore believe that this law, as it is, is necessary to provide banks with adequate resources. Of course, we also expect banks to be more involved in lending the real sector, because the current problem is that money does not actually circulate in the interbank credit market and that, as a result, banks do not provide new resources, resources for new investments to businesses. However, if there is no new investment, we know that this has a negative impact on economic growth and all the other indicators involved. Thus we will support this law and believe that it will to a large extent help to improve liquidity in the Slovenian real sector as well. This is in some ways also a message to banks that they have received adequate guarantees for resources. Of course, they must now be more actively involved in the crisis situation in the real sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have ended by presenting the views of the groups of Members and moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendments of the Group of Members with the first-signed Matey Lahovnik, then the amendment to Article 2 as well as the first-signed France Križanič and the amendments of the Group of the Slovenian National Party. I'm opening a debate. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] [[...]] Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u38	Honorable President, Your Honored Government, Your Honor's House. When I listened to the reasons for these two laws today, I remembered that in the folk tale, the intervention law could also mean putting out the fire. So it's a firefight. And that's what this is all about. Therefore, it is also essential that we vote on both laws, because otherwise we will be subjected to such or other pressures and would be responsible for the possible consequences of the financial crisis. But here's the thing. This financial crisis did not arise on its own. The financial crisis is a result of a certain model of development and from these consequences, which started in the United States and then passed through and crossed a lot of grass, we also need to learn something. The unlimited guarantee we offer to financial institutions is, in fact, psychological intervention, we said, preventive, which certainly creates a favourable environment for the continuation of financial flows without trauma and without unnecessary turbulence. However, I also agree with those concerns that are thinking in the direction of greater engagement and greater control of public frameworks, including countries, in these financial operations. I agree with those amendments, which very clearly define how, if there is not only a psychological effect, but if there are actual interventions intended to remedy these claims or debts, the status of public intervention and the public money used for this should also be defined. After all, it is the clear responsibilities of a poor financial model. When I hear what the members of the G-20 will say in Washington on 20 December and 15 December, I am even a little worried. For it is a search for solutions that potentiate the role of the global monetary fund, that is, the role of the one that is actually part of the problem, and that is an important part of the problem. I would rather hear words about the fundamental reform of such global financial institutions. But for now, it looks like we're defining ourselves to put out the fire. I will vote in favour of both laws, and I will also vote in favour of those amendments explaining the law or offering a clear framework for the State's participation and responsibility in the relationship between the State and private and other financial institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u40	Thank you very much. President and distinguished colleagues, colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, the Public Finance Act and the Banking Act are necessary because of a number of decisions made by other countries within the European Union. And if we had not made similar decisions, there would have been a relative instability in our system, as the Minister had already presented at the outset. In this debate, I am surprised that, like human nature, we are jumping from one extreme to another. Yesterday or before yesterday, or a few months ago, the financial market was as dynamic as it was, extremely dynamic, extremely complex but functioningly, an excellent instrument for creating economic growth and the end of wealth. Today, this is a great evil and we should be in one total and complete reorganisation. I think wisdom is somewhere in the middle. Even when I hear attacks and criticisms that the measure envisaged by the Public Finance Act is also due to excessive indebtedness to the Slovenian market and the servicing of only certain borrowers, it seems to me that this is cheap populism. With this law, we will not rescue some borrowers, by means of this law we will ensure certain interbank liquidity, which will primarily enable smaller and micro-enterprises in the Slovenian area to function normally, to carry out their investments and to grow further. So to say that this law is bad because it would serve only certain borrowers, larger borrowers, is, in my opinion, cheap populism. It is about enabling our small and medium-sized enterprises to breathe further, to live. They can live with loans. These are reverse short-term assets for real estate investments, investments in equipment. And this is possible only with good and, of course, relatively cheap loans. That is why such a law is good because it will make it possible. And also all these reflections and invitations to the full reorganisation of the financial system I would reject with the knowledge that the financial system has worked so far, the only thing that has been problematic here, is that the regulators, that is, those who should have regulated the financial system, were too tolerant and did not play their roles. We must allow the financial system to continue to develop, but we must be aware that it is not always right and that the regulator must also play a role. In order to carry out one complete revolution now in the style of some socialist reorganisation, however, I find it pointless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! We have now received several amendments to Article 2. I have no problem with that editorial submitted by the Members with the first-signed France Križanič. On the contrary, I have with the other two, more to say where they're going. First of all, an amendment that mentions that the instruments also include the purchase of claims from credit institutions established in the Republic of Slovenia. In principle, I have no problem with these claims between credit institutions. However, if these are claims of credit institutions to the real sector, then the question arises to me, because then it becomes a creditor instead of a bank, to a particular company of the state. This is, in fact, purely typical state aid to companies. Because the state can help with state aid, and that's kind of a pass. This is said to be the amendment of the law and this provision is to pass the existing procedures and methods of granting State aid to the economy and businesses. In order to help firms in difficulty, an undertaking may normally be in a position to take part in an aid scheme, so it must have a restructuring programme, then one Commission shall assess whether it is okay or not and then determine the extent and the amount of State aid to that undertaking. If I understand correctly, however, this amendment has brought this around, past this procedure, if the bank loaned money to the firm and this company cannot repay it now, otherwise it makes no sense to buy the claim, buy back the claim when the claim is a problem, it is said that it is not coming back, instead of the company not returning the money to the bank, it will not return it to the State. I ask whether this is the objective and intention of this proposal, because it seems to me, for the first time, that this is a bypass of the state aid system, which, by the way, is extremely detailed in the European Union. This is more a question before we finally decide whether and how to support it. The second is the amendment of the Slovenian National Party, the purpose of which is, in fact, very good and true. This is why, with some instruments, we would give silence, support these, say, NBOs, who were borrowing loans from those shares of the target company that we didn't actually own. But what does this amendment mean? This means, for example, that if a bank in the majority state owned by X lent X money for the purchase of X shares, this means that the state will now become a shareholder of X and will give the bank shares for that. It seems to me that even with this purpose we support this. The state will give out of stock - for example, we can also talk about concrete banks, but better not - so the state will let go of ownership of a financial institution and in return for this financial institution will get shares of that economic entity that has actually taken over or otherwise pledged these own shares for lending to that financial institution. I think the purpose of what I've heard is good, but I don't know if it's being followed through this concrete amendment that's connected here. That is why perhaps - I don't know, President, how this is procedurally possible, because we are in the debates on the amendment, so that the proponents can explain to us in detail how they imagined this on the basis of this dictatorship, which is defined here.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u43	Thank you. Of course, the debate is under way and I will allow it to continue. Before that, I would like to point out in particular to new Members and Members that they will apply to the debate by pressing one of the three keys, "for", "against" or "quorum". I'm opening applications for discussion. Please. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The country must act in a fair and responsible manner. And I don't think that the law we have ahead of us is in the game or the other. And I ask you kindly, to all those who said it was good, just one thing: in the 1990s we also helped with loans, both banks helped, in majority state ownership, companies that had liquidity problems. But at the time, it helped a well-known owner, and in fact, it knew who he was helping. We have another case today. Today we are actually helping managers who have a private ownership structure, and again we would be giving some guarantees that would only help those who have once and for all benefited from large sums of money at the expense of taxpayers, i.e. citizens and citizens. I think it's mostly about repeating an unfair game. And if we look at the ownership structure of these companies, whose Pivovarna Laško was, I will be speaking as Istrabenz, because it is gone today and so on, and who these gentlemen are, then we can see what this is all about. It is a matter of helping debtors who may have already helped someone and who have missed something. If there is any honesty in you and citizens and citizens in these times of economic uncertainty and financial crisis, this is certainly what they expect of you, then you will accept our amendment today. Our amendment, however, speaks of the fact that if we give something or some guarantee to someone, that it is in the form of a loan, as Mr Barovic has already said before me, that the state is also in some way protected here and that there is a guarantee that what we are giving will be returned. I call on you to support the amendment to Article 2. And if this is done the other way around, you have a spare option, which we are also signatories to the amendment, and the party really proposed it, in this version it is essentially a so-called half-way out of this. But in the first place, I lay on your heart to be principled, principled and honest. You will find this in Article 2 of our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The Social Democrats will support the amendment tabled by the Members with the first-signed Mate Lahovnik. This is also a proposal for direct entry into a credit relationship with an economic company. We agree, however, that such entry will need to be precisely defined and then implemented in a profitable manner. I do not think that such a measure should have negative public financial implications. In this case, it is not State aid but rather the form of maintaining the liquidity of the financial institution. And this is one of the possible measures, and in this sense it is legitimate. So this is about taking on very high-quality claims and not 100% value, but 50%, which will then be defined by the sub-legislative regime, is the right regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is wanted by Dr. Andrey Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As far as these two amendments are concerned. First of all, I would like to refer to this amendment, where Mr Matthew Lahovnik is the first to be signed, and this is the inclusion in Article 2 of a new indent, which would also include the purchase of claims from credit institutions established in the Republic of Slovenia, so that in addition to loans and possible recapitalisation of any banking institution, the possibility that these assets that this law would now allow would also be used for the redemption of claims, such as a bank established in the Republic of Slovenia. Personally, I don't think it has much added value. What can actually happen? One bank has either good or bad claims. Let's make another difference first. Since October last year, when Mr Banka Slovenije's Governor publicly stated that, according to Banka Slovenije, our banking institutions do not have so-called toxic investments or, as is said today, 'toxic Assets', that there is no such thing in Slovenia because our banks did not buy these documents because we know that these bad claims, such as if they exist, are really insignificant, there are between one and half percent of all their investments. These are the data of the Bank of Slovenia. So we don't have a problem like that of banks of other EU Member States, for example in Germany, where they had to solve these things precisely because banks have invested in certain documents, and these instruments have proved to be almost worthless. That's their main problem. Therefore, all their decisions on how to get rid of this state also include the possibility of buying it and the state will take responsibility and will in some way renew these worthless papers over one generation or God knows when. We don't have a problem with that. The concept of claims is this. What would that accomplish? Certainly the applicants do not have such claims in mind that there are no such claims. They are therefore talking about credits given by banks to certain borrowers in Slovenia. These are Slovenian companies, one or the other, that is, good or bad. If it's a good investment, a good claim, it's not a bank to sell it. Why would she sell if she did her own damage in her own balance sheet if she was selling good claims? It's their business. Why would she sell good claims? Why would the state buy bad claims? This is where we come up with another question. However, this matter must be resolved in a different way. We cannot use, at least that is my opinion, this legislation and this approach to address the consequences of the global financial crisis, so that we can also resolve individual or certain specific undertakings. If this is important, it will have to be resolved in a different way, not through this legislation and all the systemic problems of bank financing and systemic issues, but with the issues of poor investment that our banks certainly have, so that they give credits that are not as good as they looked or as they wish. And now it turns out they're not as good loans as they were. I don't think it's most appropriate for this to get mixed up. Claims, if the applicants have in mind the claims so-called "toxic assists" that are practically absent in Slovenia, then it is unnecessary. But if we're saying we're going to buy bad claims, it's not the right instrument. If the National Assembly considers it necessary, or considers it necessary for the Government to make certain specific instruments available to address the problems of complete companies, then it should do so through another law rather than through public finance legislation. This is my opinion and this is also our proposal. On behalf of the outgoing government, I would not support it, and I also recommend that you not accept it. As for the amendment of the Slovenian National Party, with the first-signed Mr Barovic, there is something that is difficult to understand why this country would ever do so. If I understand correctly what this amendment wants, it is that if some recapitalisation of the banking institution occurs, for example, then the state becomes the owner of the shares. So we have given no one anything and become owners of this capital or this share of capital that we have helped to create with these funds. The proposal is to turn this share into shares in companies that have set up their own shares as a guarantee that they have received loans. That's what we're saying, and now we're talking about managers' buyouts, so we can talk openly about what's actually going on here. And we can open a debate on Slovenian tycoons and anything else if it is the will of the National Assembly. However, I see no reason why the State would advocate that the share, the capital share that it will acquire in the recapitalisation on the basis of these funds, would actually turn into a capital share in companies that have acquired their ownership through these loans and guaranteed by their own shares. As Finance Minister of this proposal, I would not support it. This issue needs to be addressed in a different way. This is a question of the rule of law, but if it is legitimate, legislation must be pursued and it must be prevented in the future. We have just prevented this from happening in the National Assembly in its previous composition, and in January 2008, when we changed the terms of the Banking Act and demanded that all those who ask for credit and want to guarantee such shares have much more to offer than before. This virtually prevented any further lending with such a guarantee in the Republic of Slovenia. This has, of course, also achieved a systemic solution for the future, but it has to be reviewed in return. But we cannot solve all the problems and mix up the problems, our systemic problems of the banking system in this global crisis with these open issues of our society, which require - and I expect that we will also get your attention and that you will be able to solve, perhaps in a better way than we have been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u50	Thank you very much. In explanation of our amendment, I would also like to respond to the honourable Minister. Look, the state will somehow help cover up some loss. And let's take the example of a company that I named before, because it's a Mercator or Istrabenz or whatever. The story will be over, the loss will be covered, who will cash in the profits when the deal goes forward? The state certainly doesn't. The state will help with these loans, and the profits will continue to be cashed by them. Otherwise, I'll tell you what our amendment says. Under this law, the state guarantees the refinancing of bad loans from domestic banks. I hope we agree with that. These loans, which were bad loans from domestic banks, were even approved by the State. Therefore, as such, we have the right to require banks to convert to capital shares. And if you want, in other words, I'll say an expression you don't like to hear: we're going back to nationalization. Yeah. To nationalize what was the country's fault, that it was bad. If we don't do it, it means we gave something again, but we got nothing. That's all this is about. And this is clearly stated in this amendment to Article 4. One more time. If we help solve something, give something to one bank, we, the country - we are all a country, and we have it back. Not only give, the matter solves and when business runs, people, X, Y, Z, at the head of the company Pivovarna Laško, Mercator, Istrabenz and so on will cash in profits again. How much will the state profit from helping solve the problem?Oh, my God! That's what I'm interested in. Nothing! Nothing! We will help solve the problem, solve with the money that every Slovenian gives, every Slovenian! In fact, we are going to solve the problem that we have caused, because this country is not only in this state, even in its previous mandate, it has been lending bad loans to some banks and allowing these bad loans. And now we're going to get rid of it, save everyone else, then others will continue to do business and cash in profits. And we won't have any of this. We - I'm telling you, I'm not just talking about the state, the National Assembly and the government. This money will go out of all the depositors from all the banks. And, in fact, from all the savers, the taxpayers. How are we gonna get anything back? Just a way to accept this amendment. That's the point of our problem. If we help solve the problem, we also have the right to get some of it back when we solve the problem. Or in other words, a bank that gives me credit doesn't require me to just pay it back, but requires me to pay it high interest. He's been giving it to me for a long time, and I have to pay for it. Same story. It's simple.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u51	Dr. Andrey Bajuk has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry. In my introductory words, this is also the problem of the Rules of Procedure that the applicant has 5 minutes of time, I have not yet been able to extend to certain things that are so important that we can focus on why this debate is and why this proposal is the law. We must not mix the situation and situation in other Member States with what is in Slovenia. Today we know on the basis of data - the Ministry of Finance does not have it, with Banka Slovenije - a supervisor who knows exactly what is going on in these banking institutions. We know that they have not invested, as I mentioned earlier, in such financial instruments that have proved to be worthless. That's not a problem. Then what's the problem with Slovenian banks? Deposits have and we have also secured them in the sense that people believed from October 8th onwards that in fact this promise we made, I, on behalf of the Government as Minister of Finance and Bank of Slovenia, when we said Slovenia: We will assure you that your investments in Slovenian banks are 100% guaranteed. And we noticed when we followed the matter that there were no movements or major movements concerning deposits in Slovenian banks. And we will also now ensure and conclude that the Banking Act is adopted. Then what's the problem? The problem is other additional resources that Slovenian banks have in the last five years or six years, I would say they have almost ten years. From what? How do they lend Slovenian banks? They are also indebted, in the medium term, to the so-called interbank market. What are these? These are loans rented by, say, a Maribor bank or a new Ljubljana bank, all banks have certain loans that are included as a basis for lending. And that means 30% of the financial sum of the banks. 30% of this depends on loans coming from the interbank market. And this interbank market is currently frozen, it's not working. Why? As we have heard many times today, some of you have already learned this and have expressed it today because the banks do not trust each other. They don't know who the sinner is or who didn't, who bought or didn't buy. And actually, the thing is frozen. Now, in some way, this system must be made possible to live. What are the banks gonna do? It's not like they're going to owe each other extra money! In order to be able to renew and, if necessary, to increase their lending abroad. So they can rebuild. Because that's a certain maturity. How do you think we've come up with a provision on how much money we need? Because on the basis of the data that the Ministry of Finance does not have, there is also no Government, the only one with the data is Banka Slovenije. And neither can she go specifically, because these are bank secrets that the government does not have. Not now, and the future won't have it. What do we know? We know that by the end of 31 December 2009, there are over €7 billion there. If our banks are unable to restore these loans because they are going to go west or if necessary to increase them slightly, then they will not be able to borrow. And if they can't borrow, our economy is in trouble. That is why this decision was adopted on the basis of the Council of Ministers of Finance of the European Union as a whole, in order to guarantee the lending of banks on the interbank market through State guarantees. Temporarily. As long as the situation is what it is. That banks will not lend to neighbouring banks, which do not trust them, but lend them to a country that still has credibility in financial markets. This is the core of this proposal. And this is also a key problem in our financial banking system, how to ensure that we reopen the door to our banks in the interbank market. That's the key problem. But it can also happen to us, and this is based on the experience of other financial ministries of the European countries, that there will be problems where there will be a capital need to support an institution, which is why this second indent in Article 2 should also be given the means to recapitalise, if necessary. However, there is now a third proposal or one third indent addition that, in addition to the loan guarantee funds and in addition to the recapitalisation funds, they should also be used to buy claims. And here I'm not going to repeat what I said before, I think it's unnecessary that this has to be solved in a different way. Let us focus on what is the key problem of our banking system, and this is: through the state guarantee, allow the door of the interbank market to be reopened so that our banks can continue to operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Barovich has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Look, Mr. Minister, I actually know that you probably know a lot more from experience, but you've been talking about bailing all along. Yes, it is, but this law has three measures. The first measure refers to the act of guarantees. However, we have two other measures, the second measure, which speaks of lending to credit institutions and insurance companies, and the third measure, which refers to the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia in credit institutions. That's something to look at. One is the refinancing guarantee, but three measures are, lending, capital investments. And that's not what we've heard today. Let's let people know what that means: let's give something, let's get nothing. That's it. That's why we have this amendment, which is why we want to protect it. It's not just a guarantee of the content of this law. The three measures are: guarantee, secondly, I stress, lending to credit institutions and insurance companies, reinsurance and pension companies, and thirdly, capital investments in that country. All three of them are in this law, and we are going to accept and guarantee today that we are going to give, I'm talking about points 2 and 3, measure two and three, we're going to give a loan, we're going to make a capital investment, and we're going to have a fig.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor when you wish within the time you have at your disposal. However, I would ask that other debaters too. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u56	I understand. Thank you very much. I just want to explain something. Not that we don't get anything. I think it should be clear in front of your eyes, too. If there is any capital investment, then the state owns the shares. That's clear. If it gives a certain guarantee, it is a pricelist and also a certain burden comes into this account and there are also some additional means of doing so. But if the bank can't pay back, it's also foreseen, and we'll become stockholders again. So it's not like we're getting a lady and not getting anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Matthew Lachovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The amendment, where I am first-signed, essentially provides or additionally contains the redemption of claims of credit institutions established in the Republic of Slovenia. In essence, the law introduces only an additional instrument to address the financial crisis, which also allows for the redemption of claims in order to increase the liquidity of credit institutions. Indeed, it is now possible to discuss whether State aid or State aid is unlawful here. But what are we doing here all day? We are talking about state aid to financial institutions. And now here to oppose what Germany has already done, which are some other countries, the question is whether then everyone else in the European Union is also in some way violating the State aid rules. I'm saying it's possible to discuss it. But what we are doing here today is also nothing more than helping financial institutions in some way. There's something else I'd like to say specifically. This does not mean that the state will do this on a serial basis or that it will do it at all. This is an opportunity that can be used in situations where things get worse. We don't know what's gonna happen. A few weeks ago, everyone ensured that the banks did not need any measures, no assistance, in short, the situation was stable. Today we see that the situation is quite different. The amounts we are talking about are also quite relative. A few days ago, I had information that the question was whether the banks would be interested in this, especially when we said that these guarantees would be charged. Today, we see that the situation is quite different. That's why I'm saying, the situation is unstable, unpredictable, uncertain and therefore it's just an additional instrument, an additional option. Doesn't mean anyone's gonna do it serially right now. And it is clear that Members and Members of Parliament have leverage to prevent the Minister from going too far or to assess that there is some abuse of the purpose of a law. And I have no doubt that that lever will be used if that happens. But I see no reason why we should not increase the flexibility of this law here, why we should not allow the Minister of State, the Government, to have an additional leverage, because the situation is actually very unpredictable. I agree, however, that we can now discuss whether this is allowed or not State aid. But in the light of today's debate, we are going my way to thin ice, because what we are doing here today is definitely state aid to the financial, indirectly, hopefully, even the real sector. So I will support the amendment itself, although it is not necessary to take advantage of the opportunity that we are introducing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u60	Just for a little while, 'cause I don't have much time. This new instrument is tantamount to another level for which this law is not envisaged. Once again, as the Minister has said, this law is intended to relax the functioning of the financial market for interbank loans. This measure, however, is tantamount to a level lower, that is to say, when the bank in some way has a bad claim, when it is obviously only about buying off bad claims, not good ones, and this bad claim instead of the bank will now serve after the new state. This is direct State aid and this measure is not targeted by this law. Then I would also like to know how the state will service these guarantees, these claims actually taken over. Will she have a special budget line for this? If a firm pays a regular payment to a bank, it's a good claim and then it's not a problem. Then the bank will be happy to have it. But if he doesn't pay it back, it's a negative. And if I understand correctly, instead of the bank, this minus will now be covered by the state if it buys back this claim. This must be state aid. Now, whether it is authorised or not, it is certainly not allowed if it is a large company, if this has not been previously notified. And that's not the purpose of this marriage. I agree that if we come up with these problems, we will probably have to face new legal solutions that will service such problems. However, once again, it is again a state interventionism to an individual economic operator, without criteria, I do not know who will do it otherwise, whether the state will do it again, or whether the minister will just buy back the claim of one bank to one company. I don't think this procedure has been worked out, and I don't think it's acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u61	Anybody else want to talk about Article 2? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Slovenian national party has tabled its amendments here and if the amendments are not adopted, we will vote against the law. As such, without this amendment, the law is weak and foolish, except for those gentlemen who have brought their companies under water and now want to sail out, if possible, to collect the money again, to sink them again, the state, which means taxpayers, would pay off debts and gentlemen on the Cayman Islands would hunt swordsmen on yachts. I think it's high time we stopped. It is true that the State must help financial institutions. All right, everything's nice and well, but in some way. Not in a way that's easy to give money to someone. That is why we have proposed an amendment to add a new seventh paragraph, which, in short and simply put, would, if the bank gave credit to some company and because we would secure this credit on a banking line, actually through the Government, taxpayers with their own money would require that the Government, that is to say, all people become in a certain proportion owners of this company. It's not like it's supposed to be easy money and then it'll be forgotten. But when the money is given, the Slovenian Export and Development Bank, led by a friend of Mr Baiuk, Mr Sibil Svilan, if I am not mistaken, will, of course, charge something else for the execution of one thread: the provision of services, compensations, entitlements for the provision of services and reporting and so on. Are we a stupid country or have we decided to "stress" Slovenian people for another 16 years or what are we going to do here?Oh, my God! However, we are a Parliament. He says. And this Parliament is supposed to be the one who is supposed to care for the well-being of the people who elected us. And now we're gonna go out here and have a little bit of a fight, who's smarter, who's not smarter. A whole series of blue words about what the key problem of our banking system is, about all this and all this kind of curved. In fact, the key problem is our banking system, for the first time, that it's bad, that it has bad staff, that we have bad financial ministers. Three points. Then it can be broken down to see what our financial system is like. If this were the case in Italy, a gentleman or a lady from the finance ministry would answer a special Italian unit to a question about where something went, where the money went, why he went there, why he didn't go elsewhere, and why he was sent to an address in the first place. And what's in it? Nothing! Nothing happens in this adulterer of ours. Nobody gets hurt! The matter is moving forward, the state is sinking into ever greater debt, and here we are discussing whether any gentleman who now wants to sell, say, shares twice as high as he bought, in a crisis situation, will sell to the state for endless money, will become even richer than he has become, and no one. Not a word about a worker. Not a word about students. The fact that health care doesn't have money for that, not a word. What are we doing here?Oh, my God! There were elections, now please do something. Let's do something together. I'm always up for doing this together. But that means listening and needing when the law is good, it needs to be accepted, but when it is a kilo, it needs to be finished with those points so that we can throw that shit out. Or will we continue to "further" one of the gentlemen who will then every once in a while point to some political party some money to silence those who have raised their hand in Parliament for some kind of law? I think it's time to stop playing with the Slovenian people. It is true that the Slovenian people are unfortunately not the smartest. That's what the elections show. But please! Let's do something, let's at least let them fix some things now, not just translate from one end to the other. I don't know. They're all some terrible experts, all of them. We don't know how many experts. [[...]] Experts are our students who have been awarded a prize because they have discovered the vaccine now. They got a prize in America. They're experts. But for these experts, of course, our country has no money. And that's not because we "further" and save all sorts of uplifting new rich people instead of putting money where it's supposed to be. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Anton Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to stress in particular that the amendment tabled by the Group of Members with the first-signed Mr Matthew Lahovnik is an amendment that complements what has been defined in the remaining parts of the proposal for amendments to the Public Finance Act. As I have already pointed out in the introduction, this law can be effective, it can only work and if some amendments are adopted. One of these amendments is undoubtedly also this amendment to Article 2, which also introduces the possibility of buying back claims from credit institutions established in the Republic of Slovenia. We have already heard the introductory call, the wish, the demand for the Slovenian government to act as soon as possible, to take action, to act and to do everything possible to ensure that the Slovenian financial system works. But of course, the Slovenian financial system must function and everything must be done to make the real sector work, in order to maintain jobs at the end of the day, so that Slovenia, its economy and all of us go together through these times in which the world economy is located. We don't have to detect hot water. This measure is only one of those measures, which the rest of Slovenia introduces, introduces and implements within the European Union. Not only in Germany, even in Belgium, but also in France, they have similar and similar measures and I do not know why we should say that the Slovenian government, which requires efficiency, should not use all those instruments used by modern Western European countries. There was a talk here earlier about state aid. Of course, any State aid to the financial sector is also State aid to the real sector. And the whole European Union is working within intervention legislation on state aid. I see this measure as one of those additional measures that the Government will take if it is to introduce and prepare them when it finds that in some cases it is necessary to help the real sector, jobs need to be maintained. And then she'll have to answer to the National Assembly. We had previously adopted an amendment that said that the Government should report every three months to the National Assembly on each guarantee, every measure, including such a claim. So this is where she's gonna put the bills for what she's gonna do. And I'm sure the future Minister of Finance and Government won't go into such trouble that they'll end up here answering or even ending badly. And one more thing, it doesn't have to be just bad claims. There are two possibilities of redemption of claims, good and bad claims. It was about bad claims before the speech. In fact, in the case of poor claims, the problem closes at two ends: in the financial sector, in the bank and in the real sector at the same time. At the same time, banks are burdened with bad claims and can solve the problem of the real sector temporarily and in a different way. Before that, it was said who would serve it, whether the state or not. If we look at the exact law, then we see that the law already stipulates that certain transactions, certain things that are more professional and more difficult to implement, are transferred to other institutions. One such is the Slovenian Investment Company, which can be called if the Government decides to do so. The question was also under what criteria. If we take a closer look at the law, it says that the Government must prepare a specific regulation for each measure taken, adopt it and specify the specific measures in it. Well, that's no big deal either. However, what is an additional possibility is that, at the second stage, the state could buy claims from banks instead of repairing individual banks by lending them by making a bid, for example, a good claim. And those banks would get a loan, a loan or a recapitalisation that would make better claims if they wanted a loan from the country. And in this way we could best protect the interests of Slovenian taxpayers. So, first of all, I want to say that this measure can be useful, it can be good, it has many options and it will also be transparent. I therefore call on everyone to support and give the Slovenian government every opportunity to meet the challenges ahead of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u66	Thank you very much. First sentence: there are no elections and now there are no political "fights", but let's be honest with people for once. Look what we're listening to today. The first step, let us now be decisively precise, is the first measure: it is the granting of State guarantees to state banks for the hire of new loans abroad, with which they could refinance leased loans abroad. But let's get to the point. Who got those credits? One of the speakers said that we should take this as a comparison, I don't know, as a residential or really? [[...]] Have these loans been received by possible young families for housing? Not that I know of! Is it possible that these loans were obtained by investors in student homes? Not that I know of! Are these loans possible for investors to build new hospitals? Not that I know of! Shall we proceed now, who has received these loans? Do you want to know who? Look at the state's debt over the past two years and look at the way it's done. Who got them? Managers and consumers who, in the last year or two, have leased favourable loans to domestic banks of this mass and will no longer be able to repay them, banks will be in trouble, and we will solve them. That's the truth. But if you prove to me that this law saves banks that have given credit, I repeat, young families, students, the Institute of Joseph Stefan, I don't know who else, then I will raise my hand first and walk the flag further. That's not true! With this we pay the managers and pay them, they will finely cash everything in their pocket, and we will - I am eight years in the Finance Committee and eight years in this Parliament. I haven't accepted any guarantees. Always under the pretext that the country is helping the real sector to further develop our country of the Republic of Slovenia. And what amount are we on today with these guarantees? That's how it is, you know, at home. Try and see how it goes. I already did, and I learned. Credit to pay off with credit and then take credit to pay for credit. It's not working. That's what we do. I'm saying it again. If we could do this for the students, for all the credits we've given up for those purposes, yes. Not for the managers who hired credits to buy something for ten units, they're selling it for 100 units to the same country today. We're saving them because the bank has failed because it's given them too much credit and it's impossible to pay this loan that it rented at a foreign bank. That's the truth! And now we're going to pay this gentleman, the manager who screwed up a bank that doesn't have enough money to pay off this loan abroad! No, no, no, no, no!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 3? Check-in is on. Article 2, I'm sorry. Amendments to Article 2. Mr. Jelinčič has a noble word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have a strong feeling that some have set themselves the task of ending the anti-Tykun fight today and with this law, with one that is invested and, if one is adopted as it is, then it will indeed be over. Gentlemen will be able to celebrate a great celebration today at Martin's, to enjoy additional flows of money, and Slovenian taxpayers will not understand what this is all about anyway. Some Members will be happy and happy, maybe I'll fall a little bit off a rich table, some of us will be angry and angry, but the world will go on. And Slovenia will again be poorer and some even richer, given that money is being drawn abroad, it will also be richer abroad and Slovenia will be not only a population, but also a country that is poorer. It was said that bad bank claims would be redeemed. Who says that the bank deliberately does not invest any financial capital in a bad investment in order to share a financial injection with certain gentlemen and to improve their financial situation very well after a while? Look, for example, there was talk of NLB, the New Ljubljana Bank. Even today, we do not have a list of those who have received credits for suspicious and strange investments that are breaking and collapsing today. And it's hidden under some cover of secrecy! We're going to pay our loans, gentlemen are going to be grumpy, and they're sure they're saying to me, "Now we've won, now we're going to be able to work on what we're going to do," and they're laughing. I can tell the one who is interested, even in which association it was, and that is what the gentlemen and some ladies said at the moment they were already having a drink. It hurt me, but it seems that some people don't hurt, some people do, and it seems that we are going to get even more into the economic crisis in Slovenia. We could get away with it with intelligence, knowledge we have enough, only with us is characteristic that whoever has knowledge and desire to do something good, it has to be trampled, destroyed, cut and all and removed, because the disrupting element is a disruptive element to those who are willing to serve and benefit from it all together. I don't know, because the Slovenian people will forget this, the historical memory in Slovenia is three days, until the next elections will be forgotten, they will believe that they can "carry" pensions overnight for 1,000 euros for everyone, maybe someone will promise again, as they have already promised, 100,000 new jobs, and people will forget about it, and maybe they will say that every Slovenian worker will have 5,000 euros in wages, and they will believe again, and it will go on and on again. Once again: I do not think that the law is good, partly, to some extent at least, it can be corrected by the amendment of the Slovenian National Party and by the joint amendment of the group of Members, where it is as the first-signed Mr Matej Lahovnik, but if he does not accept it, we will thank him for this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendments to Article 3? I don't think so. That's why we're moving on. [[..]] [[ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? [[..]] Yes, Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to inform you that before we go to the debate on the amendment to Article 3, we will table an amendment to Article 3 on a proposal tabled by Members with the first-signed Mr Križanič: in the fourth paragraph, the second sentence is inserted after the first sentence, as proposed by the amendment. Thus, the text of the first sentence remains and the text proposed shall be taken into account from the second sentence forward or continue after the first sentence. Do we understand? If I read how the amendment would then be read in the fourth paragraph: 'The marriage shall be issued on the basis of law', then the text shall go as proposed by the Members with Mr Križanič, the first-signed. The guarantee contract, this is the technique, "The guarantee contract shall be signed on behalf of and for the account of the Republic of Slovenia by the Minister responsible for the finance. Guarantees may be issued for liabilities in the financial or interbank market" and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u71	Although we did not get this amendment on the bench, but Mr Tanko read it, I would like to start by discussing the amendment to Article 3. However, if you want him to read it again, please, but we would start by discussing the amendment to Article 3. Including what Mr Tanko has proposed. He realizes that yes, Mr. Tanko, you want a word? [[...]] I'm sorry. I'm gonna open the application. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Now that he's not a colleague of Visionary, I'll try to explain myself briefly. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 149: Credits to the State and guarantees to the State for credits are permitted only on the basis of law. With this amendment to the amendment in the parliamentary group, we propose that this constitutional provision be maintained in this text of the law. The first sentence essentially solves the way a guarantee law is issued, which in no way deviates from practice. However, the amendment tabled by Members with Mr Križanič, the first-signed, is processing the processing and implementation of the guarantee law. And I think that this distinction needs to be maintained, otherwise, if this first sentence is withdrawn, then it can also be understood a little bit wrong - so that some guarantee law can be created somewhere in an institution or government or any other institution, and it is in some strange way also implemented. If anything needs to be done in this area in terms of the protection of interest, we can also adopt such a law at a closed meeting of the National Assembly, even after a quick, short or other procedure. With regard to technology and procedures, approaches to solving these problems, I do not see any problems because the National Assembly has a prescribed practice in this area. As for the implementation of the constitutional provision, however, I believe that the solution I have proposed needs to be maintained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Križanič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u74	Thank you very much. So, Your Honor, this is a law that defines guarantees, as defined in Article 81a of the loan, and they both come under Article 149 of the Constitution. Thus, on the basis of Article 149 of the Constitution, we have defined the possibility for the State to react as a depositor, as someone lending financial institutions to prevent a financial crisis. On the other hand, the larger institutions, as mentioned in the introduction, are given the opportunity to hire the loans themselves, namely, to reach these loans in the present very complex time. The debate on the precise definition of this guarantee for marriage gave birth to this amendment, together with the extension to the second one next year. This number 12 is also important. And it's not about 8 anymore, it's about 12 billion because it's a two-year package, namely, the Bank of Slovenia has made an assessment of how much of this debt, how many loans are due, and on this basis this number is defined. The Ministry of Finance wrote this paragraph "The Guarantee Treaty shall be signed on behalf of and on behalf of Slovenia by the Minister responsible for finance and the guarantee may be issued under these different conditions." It defines who, how, how, who, at what cost, and at what time. The Department of Finance has claimed that this is a similar approach to that taken by you when you're giving guarantees to Dars. Thus, you do not confirm certain specific transactions with specific banks, but define precisely enough. And we estimate that this paragraph is a sufficiently precise definition so that larger credit institutions can rent loans abroad and thus burden the country. However, repayment is also required here, it is said that at the same price as such loans are acquired or guaranteed by the Republic of Slovenia or other credit institutions charge for the guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, we will support this amendment, but not the amendment, because then there is an additional complication in these difficult times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u76	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, we don't have a problem with what you're increasing from 8 to 12. That thing is operational or necessary because it has only extended by one financial year or for one calendar year the scope of these measures. However, the question arises to us how this will be done. The fact is that the solution you are advocating can indicate that these measures, which result from the 1.5 state budget in these two fiscal years as a guarantee, will be taken without a legal basis. We know and know the extent of this. We know that there are not many beneficiaries of this, that is to say, whether you will accept it by law or otherwise. However, the Constitution is explicit in this area. The Constitution is explicit in this area: it makes it very clear how this can be done. And I propose that these measures or these things be done solely on the basis of the Constitution. Otherwise, the issue of trust in constitutional and legal order may also arise. I do not think that the coalition that has been given the mandate can take the country and its actions in any way in its own and possession, as you have always said. That's exactly what you're doing with this amendment. That's what you're saying. You're moving away from where this is supposed to happen to some institutions. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Dr. Crusader, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u78	I'd add. Once again, the same applies to Article 81a. Whether the whole law is too specific or is now sufficiently specific to define these guarantees on this basis. Thus, the purpose is known, it is known to whom it is given, at what price, and at what time. I would say that Article 81a, where direct credit is given, is slightly less specific than it is now, which was complemented by the debate initiated by Mr Trofenik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u79	Thank you very much. More mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to say that I support this amendment, which was tabled by the first-signed France Križanič. I support him in the form he is. Only in such a form does the amendment allow for the effective implementation of the Public Finance Act. Only in such a form does he in fact give to the Government those instruments that he urgently needs - and immediately, immediately, that is what the representatives of Banka Slovenije told us yesterday. I would also ask the representatives of the Government here today to tell us what their position is with regard to this amendment, as, after all, their professional services have prepared this amendment, as well as this amendment to the amendment. What is unusual is that yesterday, in fact, the first amendment of the SDS Group was like this and with less criteria. And I must say that yesterday I supported this amendment of yours, you have changed your position in the meantime, which is not unusual on the basis of the discussion that it was, I am fully especting it, especially in view of the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service, which has clearly told us that criteria need to be further defined and told under what conditions these guarantees will be issued. On the basis of this, the discussion we have had, as well as the proposal of the Ministry of Finance's professional services, has been further determined by this amendment precisely to meet the conditions set out in the Constitution. And that's what I'm gonna say. The Republic of Slovenia has issued relatively large guarantees, not only in the case of Darsa. As you know, in the last four years, Dars has additionally committed almost two billion euros, and we have not set for every single section, in each individual case, how much, but we have determined in the quota. We did not set out for each individual house in the event of an earthquake with the law, for everyone with a last name and a name, how much credit he would get or maybe guarantees. Even in the case of other natural disasters, we could not do this because it is practically impossible, we cannot determine in each case how and in what way, depending on the nature of the event that took place in these cases. We could have done this, but it will go to efficiency, it will go to bank solvency, and it will actually have a negative impact on business, according to my assessment, the bank and the financial system. So, I estimate that, just as the amendment is now ready, it is good, it is appropriate, enough also to require the legislative and legal services, but I would ask, Mr President, if it is possible procedurally to obtain the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the amendment proposed by the signatories, as well as with regard to the amendment proposed by the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Lavrich. Please. Before that, it's procedural. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. I have no problem with this amendment if it is in accordance with the Slovenian legal order and the Constitution. I would therefore ask that before we decide on this specific amendment on the issue of guarantees, the Legislative and Legal Service of Parliament should be defined.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u83	Thank you very much. I am sure that this will be defined by the Legislative and Legal Service, but I would also like to say that if you can deliver this amendment to us, we will also reproduce it and then that all Members on the table will also have it during the voting period. Mr. Magg has the word. Lavrich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! We believe that this amendment to Article 3 is sufficient under Article 149 of the Constitution, which requires law. In short, it is now this law, which here accurately defines to whom, how, the conditions, for what and how, as has been pointed out, and that is, in fact, sufficient for that condition in Article 149. I would also like to point out that this amendment was prepared together with cooperation with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Radovan Žerjav has the word, sorry, it happens. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Chairman. In short. I just want to respond, given that, I think, Dars and Dars were mentioned twice. As you well know, Dars comes to this house every year to agree on an annual road map. And there each item is very precisely defined. That means there's some basis that's not quite so long and short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u87	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u88	May I add? However, not every single business is defined there, nor will it be defined here. Since it is a requirement of the Bank of Slovenia not to define individual transactions. A single bank for an individual sum, but that's a "one pea." It's the same with Darce. The Ministry of Finance has done an analogy here. Yeah, yeah. You don't, you just get that much and that. Here to solve the financial crisis, so much and so.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u89	Thank you very much. That was more of a replica. I conclude the debate on the amendments to Article 3. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 4. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. Dr. Krizanic has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u90	So here we have set up a somewhat more explicit requirement that at least once every three months be reported and that Parliament can then decide on how these measures are going, whether any additional legal restrictions or any additional extensions are needed - depending on the breakdown of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 7th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the Government's amendment, after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Mr Bojan Kontic. I give the floor to Mr Bojan Kontic, the representative of the law's proponents. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In addition to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this law is not a fundamental matter. We are assessing that the current composition of the government is appropriate and that the new government will be able to successfully implement the government programme within the existing composition. However, we have prepared an amendment based on the need to supplement the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, since the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians was adopted in April 2006 and the Law on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders, and this Act contains what we now place in the Supplement to the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, we have also prepared an amendment. The amendment was tabled and also adopted at the meeting of the home working body, making it an integral part of the amended Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So we introduce a minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians around the world. So, we add, but we are not interfering with the existing state or number of ministries that have been in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia so far in a way that we can change anything, but we are simply adding a minister without a department for the area that I have mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice met today at an emergency meeting at 9 a.m. He considered the draft law supplementing the Government Act, which was submitted by a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Kontic to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly has already decided at its 2nd meeting on 6.11.2008 that the law will be dealt with in a simplified manner. Members and members of the Committee have received all the necessary documents, such as the draft law, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, as well as the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for State Regulations, and of course the amendment of the Group of Members. Mr Kontič, the proposer's representative, made it clear in the supplementary explanation that this is not an important step in the law, as the drafters of the law estimate that the current composition of the Government in the previous term is appropriate, while the proposed solution concerns essentially only the area of the Minister without a portfolio in charge of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and with the Slovenian people worldwide. It is necessary to supplement this law, which provides in Article 14, that the Slovenian Government Office for Slovenians, in place and worldwide, shall be run by a Minister without a licence. In the proposed amendment, however, Members took into account the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said or found that the explanation that the provisions of the Law on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders should give rise to the obligation of the Government to form a ministry without a licence. It also explained that the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians, in place and worldwide, acts as a government service which, in accordance with Article 14 of that Act, may be led by either a minister or a secretary of state or a director. Here I can conclude that we have considered the amendment to Article 1 and have found that this amendment summarises the findings of the Legislative and Legal Service. We also took note or listened to the opinion of the representative of the Council of State, Mr Vnučec, who reported that the State Council had supported the bill. The Committee unanimously adopted the amendment of the Group of Members to Article 1 as well as unanimously adopted the text of the law in both articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law supplementing the Government Act is somehow necessary if we are to summarise the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia establishes the composition and functioning of the government and that so far it has not been an alternative, if I may say so, to be covered specifically by the Ministry. And the Minister without a ticket is in this area as a matter of urgency, given that we remember the Slovenians and Slovenes as a rule only when the elections are held. I would like Slovenians living outside our borders to have at least the same rights as minorities with us, both in Italy, Austria or elsewhere in the world. However, if we take a quick look at the situation and rights that are minimal in the battle of Slovenians around the world, this matter can be problematic. Governments have not yet addressed this issue in an open manner, as we know that Austria, for example, does not respect Article 7 of the Treaty and that there is also a battle in Italy to ensure that the minority law is respected, even though it has been adopted - we know that Italy does not respect it. Not to speak of other Slovenians living around the world, beyond locusts. And they are more likely to be disappointed with the mother of Slovenia, for, as we say, we remember them only when they need to be sent ballots. If we look at the competence of this minister, who will not cause a hole in the financial or budgetary area, we can say that, if, of course, he works better than the Secretary of State so far in charge, he will be able to have full time to do so. I wish him the best possible work in his work, and I want him to start solving the problem from a major problem to a smaller one. I hope that we will also see each other in place, at the end of me, and I expect the problem of neighbouring Slovenians to be solved first. And I would like to see this picture that my neighbors will have, I can call them neighbors, because I live very close to the border, in Italy, at least the same rights as the Italians in Slovenia. This, of course, is what I would like to see from this minister at the end of this term, which is his result, and something else. The Law of the Slovenian National Party supports.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Act on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside the borders, adopted in April 2006, provides that the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians is the central authority of the State Administration for Relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian Nationality Community in neighbouring countries and with Slovenians around the world. It is also decided that this central authority is headed by a minister without a resource. And in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we propose a decision and support the decision, and we hope that later the consideration of the various problems of Slovenian national communities living outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia will be even higher. As we know, there are few problems in this area. We have recently witnessed renewed pressure in Italy, and there is a constant disregard for the rights of our minority in Austria's Koroška, and in the end, we have some sort of mistaken opinion for Slovenians living around the world. We should be aware that anywhere in the world the Slovenians have settled and for whatever reason, they are still Slovenians, part of our nation, which spreads our language around the world, our culture. Machete treatment of emigrants and foreigners will soon prove to be bad. We're a small nation and we're only made smaller by various exclusions. We hope that the future government will indeed strive to preserve Slovenia's identity, language, culture, cultural heritage and cultural growth among Slovenians outside national borders. In the current coalition contract, only a few sentences are intended for Slovenians around the world. However, we hope that activities in this area will be much more. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that economic cooperation or integration of Slovenians in substitution and in the world into a unified Slovenian intellectual, cultural and economic space is essential. One of the welcome solutions would be to allow the neighbouring organisations to participate equally in the relevant calls in the Republic of Slovenia. In the spirit of all the above, and worrying demographic indicators, we should also advocate the return of Slovenian emigrants and natives or the immigration of their descendants. Finally, let me just stress that it seems important that the Republic of Slovenia also financially encourages the basic functioning of key structures of Slovenian minorities, in place of political, cultural, economic, educational, sports, scientific and media fields. In the hope that the Government will actually establish a mutual partnership with Slovenians after substitution and throughout the world, we will support the proposed law in the parliamentary group, but we want the Ministry's staff completion to be carried out rationally, with the staff that have been working in this area so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Sajovic, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. It's a nice hello to all of us once again. "When the storms roar across the woods, then the trees are rooted and conscious." And this is what this story is about, so in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the proposal for a position to complement the Government Law with joy and pride. The proposed novel is, of course, a result of the decision of the National Assembly of April 2006, which adopted the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders. With this law, the National Assembly in its previous composition stipulated that the Slovenian Government Office for Slovenians in place and around the world is run by a minister without a licence. The Office, as the central authority of the State Administration, takes care of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian national community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. The Act on relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders, as well as this addition to the Government Act, represents an important implementation of the decision of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 5 provides that the State, our Republic of Slovenia, shall take care of indigenous Slovenian national minorities in neighbouring countries, of Slovenian expatriates and residents, and shall facilitate their contacts with the country. We are in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and will swear to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, so we will also support the amendment of the law, and we are convinced that this may be one of the first steps we must take in the care of Slovenians outside the homeland. We could say right now that we have a good foundation or a good framework; let us all work together and this story, how important for Slovenia and all Slovenians, let us add the right, positive content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potč, you have the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Members and Members of the Social Democrats agree that the Government Act is complemented by the fact that the Government also has a minister without a department for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. Such a solution has already been enacted by the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders, adopted by the National Assembly of the previous reference. We therefore agree to stress the importance of our cooperation with Slovenians around the world also by the fact that the competent government office, as the central authority of the state administration for relations with Slovenians around the world, leads a person in the rank of minister, not the State Secretary or Director of the Office, as has been the case so far. When we assessed how to implement such solutions, we received different expert opinions on how to deal with this issue: from the fact that there is no need for special regulation in the Government Act, since the new minister already provides for that law; from the fact that the regulation of this Ministry in the Government Act is necessary, since it will not be clear whether this minister is covered by the quota of two ministers without a portfolio or as a third minister; from the opinion that the Law on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians outside its borders only requires that the relevant office should be run by a minister without a licence, but that it does not need to be solely responsible for this area and therefore has no other tasks. In these different opinions and in the belief that cooperation with Slovenians throughout the world and respect for the solutions already adopted, we agree that the appointment of a minister without a department for Slovenians in substitution and worldwide will also be provided for in the Government Act, so that there could be no different interpretations on this issue. By stressing this, we also explain our attitude towards that opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, so that, with regard to the appointment of a new minister, the regulation in the current special law may be sufficient. However, we follow the view of the ZPS that the reference to the law should be clarified with the reference to the Official Journal and the date of the publication of the law, as well as the article of the law to which we refer. In addition, it is also right to correct the wrong statement, which is incompatible in two laws, that it is a minister without a source, not a minister without a licence, which states a specific law. Members of the Social Democrats will be supported by the proposed amendment and the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak has the word on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President! Dear Members and Members! The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group notes that the amendment of the Government Act follows the provisions of the Slovenian Relations Act with Slovenians beyond its borders, which was adopted already in April 2006. The Act provides in its Article 13 that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians in place and in the world as the central authority of the State Administration for relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. The law also stipulates that the office is headed by a minister. However, Article 99 provides that this provision shall enter into force with the following term of office: this is the mandate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we find that similar solutions have many countries in the world. We believe that we have always given due attention to the party alone, especially because we believe or have estimated that the Slovenians outside our borders have also contributed significantly to some of the events in our past history, in particular I am thinking about the international recognition of our country. That is why, not least in the past period, we have drawn up a comprehensive law in this area, which, according to our assessment, is only now possible to live by introducing a minister to cover this area. Therefore, the amendment and the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party fully supports it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. The Director, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u106	Dear Mr. Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues! Our parliamentary groups will be united in their support for the proposed law supplementing the Government Act. The purpose of this Act is to implement the Act on Relations of the Republic of Slovenia with Slovenians beyond its borders in 2006, which predicts the Minister for this area. I must say that it is for us to hope that more will be done from the ministerial position than has been done so far, even though every government so far has tried to do more for our foreign Slovenians and those around the world in other continents across Europe. And in this sense, I must say that, as a member of the Commission for Slovenians around the world, for example, the situation that the Commission came to visit our cousins, and we urgently needed an interpreter for the English language so that we could talk to our cousins, the Slovenians. This is proof that something more needs to be done than has been done so far, and that this is actually the result of once unworked work, when it was possible and necessary for small children to have the basic opportunities to learn Slovenian, regardless of whether Slovenians, for example in Australia, are terribly dispersed, and that some also have 200 and more kilometres to the school, which is organized by all classes in one class and is there, say, 10, 15 children. In short, we think that it may be that the fact that a government office has been running a matter as part of its efforts to cooperate, help and responsiblely promote the people's identity in our neighbourhoods is not enough. And now, from the ministerial level, this can be achieved to a greater extent, and in a way that is to be achieved over time, it is understood to bring greater results. However, I must say that it is right and necessary that even in the National Assembly, within the framework of the Commission working in this area, certain things should be changed, because it is not possible to accept the fact that the Commission for Slovenians around the world, for example, Slovenians around the world, in Australia, visits only once in a mandate and then only with a few members or Members, in a way that some parliamentary groups of the year can wait for two, three mandates to see our Slovenians live on the one hand, and that, on the other hand, Slovenians do not see the parliamentary composition of all parties who can have different views, as well as various proposals to solve this problem. I therefore do not think that these commissions should fall within the framework of all other travels, which may be too expensive, too frequent and do not have the necessary effects. Just like that, by the way. Finally, this law and this amendment must also be supported in order for our President of the Government to be able to select an appropriate meeting with the responsible minister for this Ministry without a portfolio within the time limit he has drawn up. And then we all expect the thing to go down together. Our parliamentary group would, of course, have this change of law because of this and perhaps not yet said, but it would have been necessary, decisively and gladly supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the day-to-day basis, this is the consideration of the draft law on the amendment of the law on business in the form of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with Mr Bojan Kontic, the first-signed. I give the floor to the representative of the bill-maker. Mr. Bojan Kontic, you have the floor to further explain the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello again! Four years ago, we completed this Law on Members by extending the right of peace from ministers, Members and President and Vice-President of the Government to state secretaries. At that time, it was actually a fundamental step in the content of this law and in the radical expansion of those who could actually benefit from this right of rest. Therefore, all Members appointed to the Government, the Ministry and the Government for State Secretaries, taking into account the content of the law, which was then amended, could exercise the right to stand still and, in the cases cited by the law, could return to the House of Representatives. 15 were ministries and additional secretaries of state. So, at the time, it was indeed an intervention that spread a set of those who were entitled to this right. Today, another potential beneficiary, the Secretary-General of the Government, is added to our intervention to the Secretary-General. We believe that it must be aligned with the status of Secretary of State. Therefore, if a Member is appointed to the post of Secretary-General of the Government, the term of office of Member shall rest and may also be returned to the post of Member during the term of office. It's the only change that brings our marriage to completion. When we talk about the right that a potential candidate can take advantage of, of course, we are talking about the right that this Member acquired on the date of the election to this National Assembly, not when he left the post of Member, he went on an important mission to the Government and perhaps then returned. This is the right granted to him by the electorate and the electorate when he was elected to the National Assembly. Of course, the question is then an alternate Member who benefits from certain rights which are in accordance with the rights of Members. And why didn't we write this solution down four years ago when this radical intervention took place in the Law on Members? I cannot help but conclude that this is not recorded because there was no specific case at the time. If a Member appointed to the post of Secretary-General of the Government, then of the kind of coalition at that time, the coalition would certainly have written this in law, as it had done for all State secretaries, because at that time it did not know who would go to the post of Secretary of State and it was necessary to ensure that the Member's term of office was still. And this right has also been exercised in the previous term. Today, I see that those who proposed actively supported and eventually voted in favour of the extension to State secretaries propose that this be deleted from the law. To remove them from the law, in addition to the Vice-President of the Government, as we propose, also state secretaries - those who have been introduced into the law. What's interesting about this is that it took exactly four years. For four years, when they formed a government coalition, these needs were not perceived, and now that the government has slipped out of their hands, this interest is shown by the amendment that has been tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Mandate-Volution Commission as a parent working body. I ask President Dusan Kumr to present the report of the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. At today's urgent meeting, the mandate-holder committee addressed a proposal for a law amending which was sent to the President of the National Assembly for consideration and adoption by a group of Members with a first-signed Bojan Kontic following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. In terms of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legal and technical aspects of the proposed law, the legislative and regulatory framework gave its opinion, which suggests that the proposed solution should be amended accordingly, relating to the retirement of the post of Member appointed as Minister, as the Minister is appointed and not elected in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal of the Legislative and Legal Service is also to define in the word "to the position" the management powers and responsibilities to which so-called officials are appointed, among whom the Secretary-General of the Government does not belong. The government has not delivered an opinion on the draft law. The opinion was also put forward by the Commission for the National Regulation of the State Council, which supports the proposal for a law. Three amendments to Article 1 were tabled to the draft law within the time limit of business, by the SLS Group of Ambassadors, the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the first-signed Mirano Porč. In the discussion, the amendments proposed by the amendments further explained that the applicants followed, in particular, the role and powers of the State Secretary and the Secretary-General of the Government in the decision and found that the latter had at least the same powers as the Secretary of State. However, in the ensuing debate, different opinions were expressed regarding the proposed amendment of the law, but the amendment of the first-signed Mirano Porč group of Members was finally adopted, and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members was rejected and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members became irrelevant when the amendment of the group of Members with the first-signed Mirano Potrče was adopted. In the end, the Commission also voted on and adopted both amending articles. A proposal for a law amending the Law on Members has also been adopted. In the light of the amendments adopted, a further proposal for a second reading at today's meeting of the National Assembly is thus prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Mr. Jakob Presect, please, even though I have no change recorded.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry, we obviously made a mistake to give the wrong name, and I apologize to my colleague Guid. But I am a member of the Mandate-Election Commission and therefore I intend to give this opinion. So, let me begin by agreeing with the representative of the proposed amendment to this law, that it was also four years ago to take a major step into the law and that, of course, a comparison of the State secretaries with the Secretary-General of the Government is necessary and possible. Not only that, but also in today's debate at the Mandate-Election Commission, it has been shown that if this is the case, then at least what should be introduced or added is the Secretary-General or Secretary-General of the General Assembly, because we also believe that these are functions that are comparable between us. So, four years ago, we were not proposing these changes, but we supported these changes at the beginning of the mandate. However, it was demonstrated during the term of office that there were not enough reasons to justify it, and above all it showed that there was no good experience in previous mandates, that these were not some good practice experiences, but rather vice versa. This morning, he was operating on 20 numbers and only one extra. Yes, it is true, now in this proposal there is only one additional function, then it was theoretically 15 plus a few more state secretaries possible in the cabinet of the President of the Government, that is to say, we said 20. I agree with that, too. This is precisely why we have proposed to go back to the arrangement that was good, which was good in all mandates by 2004, and the change, as it is said, has proved bad and the experience of this mandate has been poor. This is why we have proposed this change. I'm surprised, I'd say that the explanation for this law, the reasons for preparing these amendments to this law are virtually exactly the same as those of four years ago, but this time for the law, and then against the law. And if you read, I will not quote all these statements made by the opposition back then, by the opposition members of that time, I propose that we read the statements made by the opposition members of that time. If we had taken these statements into account today, we would not have prepared such changes to the law and there would be no discussion in the National Assembly today. So, given that there were no valid reasons, I think, in our opinion, in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group back then, in 2004, and that practice had shown that this was a bad solution, which is why we are proposing, not because we are extending the law to one more person, despite the fact that it was also operating on a specific name and surname, then strongly opposed the changes of this law - but let us leave it. So, we propose to return with our amendment back to 2004. So, for the mandate periods until 2004, in which this solution was good. It means that it was only the ministers and the President of the Government who touched this law. That is why we will support the amendment we have drafted in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, which was supported and signed by the SDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Sajovic, on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Chairman. Once again, a nice hello to you all. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we support the amendment of the Law on Members. We agree with the amendment of the Law on Members, on the basis of which the right of the Secretary-General of the Government is aligned with that of the Secretary of State. For the Law on Members regulates the right of a Member elected as Prime Minister of the Government or appointed as Vice-President of the Government or as Minister or as Secretary of State to remain in his place at the time of his office. Under the Law on Members, this right also belongs to a Member or a Member appointed as Secretary of State. Taking into account the situation, rights and responsibility of the Secretary of State and the Secretary-General of the Government, the proposed amendment is certainly justified in this way, and we are therefore convinced in the LDS that the opposition has not made any valid arguments or reasons why this would not be the case, of course if we did so years ago, as was the case with the original sin, then of course there is certainly no valid argument that this does not change in this position of Secretary-General of the Government. It is more obvious, however, that we have here at the table another, more political, than substantive reasons and arguments. However, because in the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we swear primarily on the strength of the arguments, we are convinced that in this case there are valid reasons for this change and we will support the amendment of the Law on Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Potč on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Members and Members of the Social Democrats agree to adopt amendments and additions to the Law on Members, which, in addition to the President of the Government, the Ministers and the Secretary-General, allow the appointment of a Member or a Member-General of the Government and that, in the event of the termination of this duty, he may be reinstated as a Member or a Member. We believe that it is a minor complement to the solutions contained in the law in force. More important changes were made in this law four years ago when the then ruling coalition considered it right to extend this option to State secretaries, apart from the Prime Minister and Ministers. This extended this option by about 20 potential changes. We're only adding one thing this time. With regard to the comparability of functions, we firmly believe that the comparability of the tasks conferred by the Secretary-General of the Government compared to the Secretary of State is in his favour. The State secretaries shall carry out their duties only within the limits of the mandate of the Minister, and the Secretary-General shall, at the instructions of the President of the Government, take care of the preparation of meetings, the enforcement of decisions, shall be chaired by the General Secretariat of the Government, which shall normally be operated by government services, which may also be headed by state secretaries. The General Secretariat of the Government, chaired by the Secretary-General, has a split internal organisation with 12 sectors of important professional, analytical, human resources, financial and administrative tasks that are not the work of the Secretaries of State. Finally, the Secretary-General of the Government has a different position as Secretary of State until his work in the National Assembly. Not only does the Secretary-General of the Government have a specific sector to cooperate with the National Assembly and with European and international cooperation. Members and Members may also, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, raise oral and written questions to the Secretary-General. There is no doubt, therefore, that these two functions are incomparable, but that the tasks which the Secretary-General of the Government has are much more extensive and therefore justify the reason that the Secretary-General of the Government may also be appointed from the ranks of Members and Members, in order to maintain his office if he returns to this function. We therefore propose that this proposal be supported by the law. Nor did the Legislative and Legal Service, from a systemic perspective, have any comments on the proposed amendments and additions. However, the comments she had in law and technology have been incorporated into the law by the amendment at the meeting of the mother's labour body. However, we do not support the amendment prepared by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian Democrats, because if they accepted it, they would agree that we decide that a solution applies only as long as they are in power and in government, and later the Prime Minister should not have the same options as they have elected. Thus, even in this case, the Latin proverb "anod of the grace of Jovi, a non-hypothet bovi", says what Jupiter can do, must not be oxen, it is said, for them this right is guaranteed, and others must not have it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u118	Thank you very much. This proverb also applies to the Group of Social Democrats. In the previous term, you have in fact supported the proposal with the same arguments as you are now in favour of, and you have opposed the proposal of the previous coalition. And it has turned out that you want this proposal, which we have identified on the Mandate-Election Commission, more or less of all parliamentary groups, that it is not good, you continue to support it. First of all, perhaps a word about the report of the Mandate-Volution Commission that we received on the table. I doubt that there were only three debaters on this committee: Mr Potrč, the representative of the Council of State and the Rule of Law. I think that the report is incorrect because it does not summarize any discussions on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Otherwise, today is a very interesting day. On the one hand, we are considering measures by the Government to prevent the consequences of the economic crisis, says the outgoing governments and, on the other hand, the coalition MPs are coming with a proposal to amend the Law on Members, which extends the rights of Members after the discharge of the official function or the functions of the executive. We'd expect the opposite. The proposal of the Law on Members, adopted in the previous term, allows Members who have accepted the role of Secretary of State to return to the post of Member after the suspension of this post. We have found that this proposal, this solution is not good and that is why we do not support it in this mandate. The experience of other parliamentary groups is similar and, instead of the new coalition complementing or deleting this proposal, extended the beneficiaries to the Secretary-General of the Government with its proposal. In my opinion, the proposal of the coalition Members is also discriminatory to the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, that is to say to the secretary who is in this house, who is completely excluded or completely forgotten. But it's a completely comparable function. The coalition has also shown by this proposal that it is completely servile to the interest of the person in its circle who takes an official position in the cabinet of the President of the Government and simply submits to that interest and has actually passed exactly four years since you also challenged it, and now that you have the opportunity, this solution could also be rectified. Here we are again faced with situations that we have been alerting for a long time — the difference between words and actions. We have already experienced a decision on the subject of professionalism in the National Assembly, we have received or experienced a problem regarding women's quotas in the National Assembly, and this problem will then continue in the Government. And we are now also experiencing this conflict between the statements made by the President or the candidate for a term of office or now by the mandate of Mr Pahor and the decision of the Group of Members. Mr Pahor said at the Odessa in early October: "I said that I would tie some unpopular measures to the confidential. And since the Members will decide - if the President of the Republic decides not to trust my mandate - on my election, the first proposal that will be unpopular to such a nature for political elites will be my proposal to get policy what we must collectively bear the burden of this crisis in a way that we will come out as winners. This means that I will propose that the time when Members receive compensation after the expiry of their term of office should therefore be reduced to six months." There's no such proposal. Instead of this proposal, which would actually implement this public call by the mandate holder, we get a proposal when it even extends rights. Unless the amendment of the People's Party and the Slovenian Democratic Party is adopted, the legitimate expectations of other individuals and other groups will also be triggered, and this is not good for the time ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. The Director, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u120	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Slovenian legislation provides for the incompatibilities of functions in the legislative and executive branches of government. Thus, a Member who has been elected President of the Government or has been appointed Minister or Secretary of State as long as he performs this function shall be left in peace and shall not be able to perform it. But he can return to it if his function ceases. We believe that it is also appropriate for the Secretary-General of the Government, appointed by the Member States, to lay down by law the same conditions and the same rights as those already laid down for example for ministers, state secretaries from the Member States. For the latter, the function of a Member is at peace, meaning in particular that the ousted may be returned to the parliamentary bench and continue the function for which he received his term of office in the elections. The reason for the same solution for the Secretary-General of DeSUS is found mainly in his function, since, in addition to carrying out coordination and professional tasks for the Government, he also provides for participation in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, for cooperation with the President of the Republic of Slovenia, with other authorities and organisations in the country and other countries and international organisations. Following the legislation currently in force to the elected Member appointed to this function, his rights did not stand still and, in the event of his resignation, he was not given the opportunity to perform the functions to which he was elected by the electorate. With the proposed law, these rights are granted to him, and Members of the DeSUS cannot oppose this. In view of what the Secretary-General of the Government is really doing and is supposed to be doing, we believe that the proposed amendment to the Law on Members is justified. Otherwise, rights elsewhere in the world are similarly regulated, with the exception of Italy. Members of the DeSUS view the bill as appropriate because we believe there is no reason not to align the functions of the Secretary-General with others, such as State Secretaries, Members or Ministers. I must say that we will support this only amendment of the Law on Members, but at the same time we believe that the Law on Members would need to be addressed in a broader manner and to be more widely processed and amended and amended, because it is sad that the Law on Members has reduced the level of MPs to a public servant, without the rights of public servants, of course exposed to a mandate for four years, without permanent employment and so on. There is much more to be done and we too will always be in this direction for things that are not well solved to be arranged at other points, not only in the one that is before us today. In short, this change is supported by DeSUS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Today we have talked about the proposal for a law on the amendment of the Law on Members, but we are not talking about Members, we are talking about some people who have not become Members who would like to be Members and who are counting on how they will come here and go to another job, come back and be Members again. In short, there are some strange things that are being said to throw at everything, and especially at these proponents of today's law, a very strange light. I have already said today that Slovenian historical memory lasts three days, but let us refresh it a little bit, and let us turn on 10 November 2004 to the continuation of the 1st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, when a group of Members tabled also the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Members. At that time, someone said, "The law in the proposed text is unacceptable and unnecessary. The law introduces new human resources privileges for potential secretaries of state. The law gives new powers to the Prime Minister of the Government. The law therefore increases the role of the executive authority vis-à-vis the National Assembly. The law strengthens the government's political role." And so on. "All this is suggested by the ruling coalition, which brought against privileges yesterday, against clientism and against recruitment according to political criteria. So the coalition couldn't keep up the good promise for 24 hours, it immediately showed its true face, it wants to have an unlimited influence on political recruitment and privileges. This law is unnecessary and shameful in our belief." That's what my colleague, Mr. Miran Potch, said. Mrs Majda Shirca said this: "In short, it is neither ethical nor moral nor reasonable that, because of the so-called single case, we adopt legislation in a quick manner without reflection, justification or comparison." Thank you, Mrs. Shirca. Mr Matthew Lahovnik said: "Of course we can say many things, but the fact is that this law increases the costs of state administration, increases public spending. We've all advocated that the state apparatus act more rationally. The rights of officials are being extended." Mr Future Minister for the Economy, I hope that he will also consider this proposal, which he now supports within the framework of the coalition. The main person of this story, because of this person's marriage was written in the first place, said: "I will not support this law! I will not support it either, because something was said yesterday, of course, which is not respected today." That's what Mr. Squeakle said. In this case, I think it's a serious duplicity. That it's something we're allowed to do and that some people aren't. Now it shows exactly who is who "considers himself to be gods" and who we are, who "considers us to be oxen". I think Latin is one wonderful thing that can tell only those who understand this matter in a short time. We won't support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled, namely the amendment tabled to Article 1 of the SLS, SDS. Anybody want to talk? The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I've already justified why we're making this amendment. I said earlier that there are no unjustified reasons and that the bad experience of the previous term is. Maybe all you have to do is determine why bad experiences are. Because of the fact that other officials, not ministers and the President of the Government, are appointed by the Minister and President of the Government, he is, of course, appointed by the National Assembly, while the other officials are appointed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And the Government of the Republic of Slovenia can appoint and dispose of both the Secretary of State and the Secretary-General and someone else in theory on the current tape. In theory, even every week. And what this would mean for Members of the National Assembly - that is, simply mixing here and there, bringing, if I may make an ugly statement, new alternate Members during the term of office of Member, as Secretary of State or as Secretary-General of the Government, and would be one general confusion. Because of this poor experience in recent years, we have proposed an amendment to bring legislation back to the period until 2004. More than once, we say that there is a need to learn from experience, but we have learned from this bad experience and we have therefore proposed this amendment and I suggest that others support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u126	Dear Vice-President, distinguished colleagues, distinguished colleagues! I'll back up the bill myself. However, I will support it on the basis of my ten-year experience in the work of the state administration. Actually, I'd like to talk a little bit more about this role as Prime Minister General. Several of our colleagues earlier said how important the Secretary-General is to carry out his duties. This amendment puts it in an equal position with state secretaries and with ministers in the state administration, i.e. with other officials in the state administration. Let's see. Under all the government laws so far, the Secretary-General had approximately the same status as the Minister and the Secretary of State on several rights and obligations provided by the Government Act. For example, when leaving office, with salaries and other benefits, with allowances and with social insurance. The only difference with other officials was that the Member appointed as Secretary of State - in this case, in recent cases, this was not the case, but the possibility that if someone elected as Member-General became Secretary-General of the Government, there was no possibility of returning to the House of Representatives. That's why I think we need to give him this opportunity. Not because, you know, some suggest that this is a matter for which colleague or colleague of ours, I think that what we are doing on both sides of the Social Democrats and perhaps the Slovenian Democrats is pointless, this passing of balls. I myself have not been a Member of Parliament in the previous term, but I will tell you that if I were, I would support you in proposing that this is also the right of state secretaries. Why? Because the secretaries of state were experts in previous mandates. These were the professionals who ran today's Directorates. Today they are Directors-General of Directorates. The Secretary of State is today Deputy Minister, with all responsibilities. Well, I suppose he must have the same options as the minister. That's part of the argument. I would also like to draw attention to the second part, because some of today's debaters have alluded to the financial crisis in which we are in and what this could all mean. For those of you who don't know what this would really mean, let me say: Secretary-General, Secretary-Generals have a much better salary than we do, Members. So if someone returns to the parliamentary bench, the state budget is burdensome, not burdensome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u127	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Here's what I'm gonna do. I don't feel good when I have to warn my colleagues on the other side, and it would be good for someone to read today more than an hour and a half of a magnetogram of other debaters, especially from the current coalition. In fact, this is also where colleagues who discussed for 15 minutes at the time and the main and basic argument for amending the Law on Members were that, on 10 November 2004, the political role of the Secretary of State had fundamentally changed since the previous period, that we were reducing the number of State secretaries from 48, 52, 56 to 15 plus those in the cabinet of the President of the Government and that the Secretary of State was an extremely political function replacing the Minister in his absence. And in this place there are people who have a lot of professional, political and so forth experience, and it can happen that many Members or those who have been trusted by people in elections will sit in government offices instead of state secretaries. Look at the magnetogram and this was a basic and fundamental argument then for a change. Today's proposal is merely correcting, I will say by Styrian, "slamparia" or the superficiality of letting go of the most important secretary of state, which is the Secretary-General of the Government. And so this morning I felt that there was some sort of confusion in the present opposition species. And let me tell you what "what" is in this mess: four years ago you proposed what I just said and argued. Four days ago, you tabled an amendment to the current amendment to the law, which does not oppose the amendment of the law, but complements it to make it clearer. And today, after the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, you and the SLS tabled an amendment that completely destroys what you accepted four years ago, and what you tabled four years ago with the amendment. This is said to be another of your innovations, which we have been accustomed to over the past four years, especially in these personnel matters. And when you talk about privileges, let me just list four, five privileges that you as a government have done in the last two months or given to some high-level government officials. A number of State secretaries have become directors of directorates or agencies. Due to the human resources deficit, you have generously strengthened individual ministries during the public tenders last month before leaving. Four months ago, you didn't find out about this shortage. After completing the Presidency of the European Union, you have done a great deal of wrong to some ten people who have also worked and worked during the Presidency and have hired these people in important senior official or lower official posts in the Government and public administration on the basis of party political criteria. And last but not least, even some of those who were on the job in the cabinets of ministers, for example, you hired the pioneers for an indefinite period of time and that in better jobs, with higher wages and so on. So, colleagues and colleagues, when you talk about privileges, look at the list of privileges of the last two months that you have done and will have consequences for the future. Take a look at the meetings of the Government, the Human Resources Point: twenty, thirty points are tied to human resources matters in the last two and a half months. I took the time, and since there are websites, you've seen these things, so I don't mean to.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u129	Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u130	Good-bye to all of you. A particularly nice greeting to all forty opposition statisticians in recording the latest government or coalition tragedy comedy "Delivering the Red Soldier of Brickle" if I paraphrase that address of the famous success. In fact, it is more than obvious that something is happening that in law should not be happening in principle. For here it is not possible to say that it is five functions, five cities, but it is exactly one city. Exactly one. And for this one city alone, the new government coalition's mandate has already been announced in advance, and he has even said twice that he wants to see Mr Cwickl on this spot. This is said to be crystal clear that in this case it was a matter of writing the law in one instance, and even worse - in a case where it is already known in advance who it is. So, for writing the law 'ad personi', which all legal theory teaches is that it really shouldn't be happening in principle. So much for this, which, of course, means that, in all these big and bombastic words, by the well-respected new coalition, all these big words mean that this proposal is also legally unprofessional. And it really is. It is just a political purpose that solves one particular problem of one specific ambition. How big they are to reach for lies, even after the mud of Slovenia, our homelands abroad, we were able to see for ourselves in the National Assembly and why, in fact, such excessive ambitions must be met in such a way, I don't know. But you already know who you are. However, I am asking you not to mix things up, such as state secretaries in ministries, which, in the role of the government, when they are replacing the minister, they also participate, they also vote, and the role of the secretary-general, of course I am not demeaning, he is the head of the service, but he is a government official. And in no case does he participate directly in these things and therefore this is clearly an additional argument for the inadequacy of your proposed solution. Well, I have one last thing to say to you that when I'm on my own as a statistician in filming your tragedy comedy "Delivering the Red Soldier of Brick," I miss the performances of those first of your attackers from last term. Do you know, from the heart, I would like to hear, for example, how Mr Potrč today would argue with Mr Potrče in 2004 and how he would kill one after the other and declare them a demagogy. If nothing else were to smile a little bit, it would be so sweet. And that's what's missing in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u131	The word has Mr. Mag yes, please. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Grimes, I admit it would be fun. It would be quite as much fun, however, if Mr Grims had listened to the discussions he had four years ago and today would have spoken differently with the same arguments as he had spoken four years ago. The situation has changed. We stand for each other's differences. You're no better than we are, so don't play nice.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u133	Mr. Mag. You have the right to remain silent.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u134	Thank you very much. What an ideal point for my performance! [[Laugh.]] But people didn't vote for you because we're better, but because they think you're better. And because you've wasted a whole bunch of promises on them. Among other things, these were promises of self-restraint, of the withdrawal of privileges, of the waning of political elite rights and so on. Four years ago, we were all more modest or less rich in four years of experience, including you. But now I see that in these four years you have strengthened your conviction that we were right at the time, and in fact we have somehow realized that you were right. And here's the problem. I am sure that the current mandate-holder, or Mr Borut Pahor, has also said in many performances that one of the important messages to the voters and voters is that, under some tight economic, financial conditions, it begins to self-restraint and begins to cut the wings of political elite. Moreover, he predicted some new and new measures that would reduce the scope of rights or some ratings - or whatever we call it - of political elites. Now we have a proposal on the table that goes the other way. I agree with you that it is not essential in the public financial sense that it tantrums really only one person, it is almost a small problem, but it is a specific message: when you are in the interest of one, you like politics, you should therefore change the law, the law on Members; but when it comes to a whole set of, say, others, we will have to understand the problem created by the tight economic and financial situation. I also understand the softening and, as I would say, the swindling of that proposal that went in the sense of correction when we talk about pensioners - when the hands and deadlines of these coordinations began to be questioned or paid off. So, Your Honor, the only problem I have is that you've been supported by people because they think you're better. You're telling us we were the same. People didn't support you to be the same, but to be better. And it would be nice to reflect actions through the proposals you support, but not to adapt them to some immediate needs; and worse, the needs of individual people who have such and different ambitions within the executive branch.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u135	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. Not to be mistaken, some people, I see they have a problem with that because they don't know what they're talking about. The law, the applicable law on Members, adopted in 2005, regulates in its 14th Article the right of a Member elected as President of the Government or appointed as Vice-President of the Government or Minister or Secretary of State. So much for secretary of state - you've spent quite a few minutes. Of course, it does not regulate special rights for the Secretary of the Government, who is a Member, but this Member is not because he is still a Reserve for some time. Now we're gonna call the ministers and then we're gonna call the reservists. This is essentially how we change the law for a reservist who will only come as a Member. Yes, we are prepared to take responsibility for the future. That's a really nice password, it sounds good, but with that password you won't prove what you said during the elections, your respectable colleagues and your colleagues on the left. Also to avoid principles, principles and truth: on the same subject you voted Mr. Milan M. Squeakl then v, Kotič v, Lahovnik v, Lovtišar Bebler v, Breda Pečan v., Vote v., Run v. Remember, comrades, the leaf? Are the needs really such that you send this law into an emergency and will this law be the first, the one to solve all Slovenian problems? No! No! I say that, in fact, we will only go a little deeper into our pockets and that this will not solve the not-coming economic crisis, but I think that such a law should be on the agenda today, as well as some law on what would solve the upcoming financial crisis. You are also invited by trade unions, respected Social Democrats, to pursue what is hot and, of course, open; this is labour legislation, or the upcoming wave of unemployment, which will soon hit Slovenia, or it is already known that some companies are thinking about mass forgiveness. With such fast-changing laws you will not increase your reputation, we can say that we in the Slovenian National Party will not wait 90 days because time does not allow us to do so. We will not give you this opportunity, and we will warn you that you have forgotten too soon what you promised. In short, do we really need such a law or is it such a need to burn, that after a reduced procedure we must accept it, or is it only possible that this is the request of Mr. Quikl, who said to Mr. Pahor, "Yes, I am going for the secretary, if you will allow me to fall from the chair by accident, to go back to where I came from." I think that this is the second most important thing that will last and apply. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not participate in this mess. You will not get our support for this amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u137	The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, if I don't have to replicate later, a respected party member with no hair on his tongue, you might as well read about yourself, as you voted at the time, you didn't oppose the law, and on the quorum you pressed. That's it. Now let's get to the point. In a television confrontation before the elections, one of the members of the largest opposition party lamented the lack of privileges for members of parliament and how his colleagues in other services have significantly higher salaries and better privileges. Well, I had a slightly different view from him at the time, but this party member will certainly remember his words because I have all too often felt that the biggest opposition party has major problems with the exact name of the matter. They say that the bad experiences of the past four years have shown that the proposal for a law was a mistake. I have tried very hard to remember which secretaries of state, who were former Members, were replaced and returned. Now, if I recall correctly, if you are already operating on names, I will say that I only remember my colleague Puksic and Member Lucio, who then went to the ambassadorial post in Belgrade. I don't remember any of the others. Now, you take them to mind what these bad experiences have been like. I've listened to how you only accept good laws, how you do good work and you run for good ministers in the paper, we've chosen and had to tell you what the qualities of good ministers are, you've failed yourself, and now all of a sudden we hear that you have bad experiences. Who'd have thought-- quick change! We could have been asked, four years ago we said that the thing you're proposing is bad! But now to what I want to say. The Law on Members would now need to be amended, whether this is a change that you are paying so much attention to, or not, because the issue with ministers has changed, they are no longer loved, they are called in the Government, and they are also the forgotten Vice-President of the Government who has remained. But now to the point. The head of the SDS Group was swinging between the label of the official or the official when he spoke about the Secretary-General of the Government, and somehow he was unable to make a decision. But the thing is not so innocent, because when we talk about officials, it's according to a report from the Ministry of Public Administration, government officials, civilian officials, on the 31st day. 12. 2007: The civilian part of the government's administration is 17,640, followed by the police and the Slovenian Army, so that they are all somewhat in forty-four thousand. But when we talk about officials, in the same report of the same ministry the number is slightly different, i.e. the officials together are one hundred fifteen, but those of whom there are now talks are a total of thirty. And look at him, he's also the general secretary of the government. So no problem, you then adopted, four years ago, the law that applied to State Secretaries, which was at the end of December was thirty-three, but you left out from all this selection of one single person, the secretary-general who had, by the way, a long time still many other functions with which he served well, but this is another story. And now it's a sign of duplicity. What we have often warned about over the past four years, and what we have learned is that you are masters in telling the truth: something is, something is not. But when you changed the law, we objected to what it means to be number thirty-three, and you carelessly released one, who is also a similar official. Now, of course, you want to turn this thing around so that it's just one thing that you've already gone very, very close to your heart, and you've made every effort to prove it on every occasion. So, I must say, I consider this law to be a correction of something that was adopted four years ago, and it was adopted superficially. It's just a fix now. Now, when it comes to other secretaries of state, you're going to make a difference. And you and Pukšič do it for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u139	Dr. Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I have to say that during the course of yesterday, I told one of the TV houses to sign 80% of Mr. Pahor's statements. What's problematic is what's around it. And I've been saying that in the election campaign, when people were asking me, what do you have against Mr. Pahor's statements? Nothing! As far as the employment of 40 people is concerned, this is, of course, a terrible story. The Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia was attended by people who did not have a permanent job but were employed for a certain period of time, more than 100 people than we know. The government has hired 40 people under no party criteria, under any criteria, as you speak of, but only the best among them, because it would be a real shame for this state administration to forgive the people who have gained a lot of experience in the EU Presidency, no one else has, except these people. As far as employment by ministries is concerned at the end of this, one or the other term, I have put this story through twice. When I came to the Ministry of the Interior in 2000 as Secretary of State, I must say, we spent about three-quarters of an hour with the then Minister Jambrek, because everywhere where the Cabinet of Ministers wrote, we knocked on the door and watched who was working in the office. There was none. Why wasn't there any? Because before the so-called Bajuk government, the government had put them in jobs where they had permanent employment. A similar story was repeated in 2004, when I came to the Ministry of the Interior in the same role and, after half an hour of searching, I found your colleague Janjo Klasincheva, who remained there. More or less everything else is gone. By reading it today, it's about like watching my neighbor hit me empty. Otherwise, changing the law written to one person on the skin, in a particular case, the inventors of the known phrases of the "glass palace" - what to say. Simply that you will vote and that I may wish him a pleasant stay in such a singing "glass palace", about which there is so much talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! When I saw this proposal to amend the Law on Members, and even when it was said what name the future Member and the future Secretary-General were referring to, of course, I got the association that there were some special reasons, given that, in fact, the Members who had left Parliament in the previous term to be secretaries of state did not see this role until the end, and I think that this need has somehow dried up. Today, in fact, I believe that a Member elected from the people is worthy or proper when it comes to the Minister, but otherwise it is right that a representative of the people remains here, in Parliament, although I also allow exceptions. But when I saw a change, I was probably thinking about two directions, whether they significantly increased the powers of the Secretary-General of the Government and thus higher, probably, the rank of Prime Minister. I expected, in fact, I was surprised that you did not propose to change the name of the Prime Minister to the chancellor, where such a role is envisaged for a special role of the Secretary-General, in Germany, Kanzleravit is known for his special role - that is, in fact, the Prime Minister in some way, although he is the Secretary-General of the Government. And there's a lot of symbolism in what's proposed here. It's not so much about return or retirement, but it's a status issue. I think that it is actually preparing that some ministers, future ministers, will be supervised by the Secretary-General of the Government. All these events, which we witnessed at the time of the formation of the government, in the presence of a coup d'état within DeSUS, when the legitimately elected president of the party within the party, who extended DeSUS's life and increased the number of its members, who fantastically took part in the electoral campaign, had to be acknowledged, and suddenly had no right to negotiate when members of the party who were not members of the party began to order him, when members who were not party members announced what the authorities of the party would do in the next stage. It is interesting that that Member, who is not here now, who has done so, as far as I know, was once a speech writer on a central committee and transferred this system of democratic centralism to the National Assembly, which is shameful for democracy. What was happening was actually embarrassing for Slovenian democracy. The President of a party had to submit to the centres of power outside Parliament, but not to his own party outside his own party. And unfortunately, the Slovenian media only spoke about the president of the party who has unusual demands, although only the wedge killed high so that he could negotiate well, which is the most normal thing for each party at the time of the negotiations. And, of course, I suppose that he did not succeed in maneuvering himself, that Erjavec withdraws himself from the party and that he should also be monitored further. And a sophisticated surveillance system should be maintained. So I can see in that light. Of course, I believe that Mr Pahor is also in some way afraid of the future Secretary-General, even though they have determined from the outside that this should be the case. For the future secretary-general did not endure anywhere for four years, or the whole term: every time he came into conflict with the surrounding area. And Mr Pahor is probably aware of this and is as an opportunity to get rid of it in a more elegant way in the future, predicted and also approved this manoeuvre, this amendment to the law so that it can happen. Four years ago, I actually thought that this institution would increase Parliament's dignity and reputation, but because those who decided to do so did not actually feel that way, I think that this possibility has survived, that there is absolutely no need to extend this institution. There's absolutely no need. However, it is necessary, as I have said, for the hidden purposes of this central party, which obviously manages political leadership from its past and under the Dolomite Declaration system controls everything around it. The leading role is thus envisaged, all subordinated to this logic of the Dolomite Declaration, and this is actually terrifying for Slovenian democracy. Slovenian democracy is threatened because, in such a way, when such powers and such things are foreseen, with the familiar history, the historical mortgages you have, I think that your actions and your proposals should go in a completely different direction, so that this question does not arise, which in the event of events that you dictated within DeSUS, while again, I will say to the court that happened, and the capital-controlled media have supported all of this. That's outrageous. Something like this has never happened in Europe that has happened here. And I'm actually happy with your suggestions. This is where you transparently show what's in the background. But I'm sorry for Mr. Pahor, because in the end he will be the victim. To him, I believe he's a Democrat by heart, because I've met him, but he's had to remove himself from the dictatorship so many times. Last time he promised that these war laws, reconciliation laws, would be his priority, that he was not interested, as he put it, in counting history, but he was interested in building the future. I agree with that. But when he submitted a declaration on this matter in 1998, 1999, written by the Remembrance of Hribar, at a conference of your party, he received 5 votes from 85 at the highest authority. There were 80 of them against it. Mr Lukšič can probably confirm this, he spoke about this once in an interview. And this is a catastrophic mortgage you're also making with this bill. And because of this I fear, the Slovenian public must fear this, because not only are the times of Mirko Bandlja and all the deformities of Mirko Bandlje, when he was the Secretary-General of the Government, but you want to upgrade these deformities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss the amendment. I'm opening time for discussion. Please, whoever wants to sign up. Four Members and Members have been notified. The first one has the word, Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Members and Members! When you put this law under consideration, the explanation was completely wrong. You explained how important this function of Secretary-General of the Government is. And this law does not really address the systematisation of this job. I believe it's important, it's extremely important. However, this cannot be the subject of this debate in this law. I would believe, however, that you have a good purpose here if, in some other law, or on government or on public servants, you wrote that the Secretary-General of the Government must be formerly a Member of the National Assembly, that this is a condition. Then this matter would be a little more understandable. But here, in fact, to depreciate the National Assembly and, above all, Members and Members of Parliament, I think it is very unfair for our electorate and electorate. In this way, you allow many alternate Members and Members to sit in the National Assembly, who have received very little support in this way in the elections. And that's unfair to our constituents. Otherwise, in the previous term, it was significant that many Members had switched from one group to another, where the voters had also been played. Today, in the debate here, it was heard that the previous law of 2004, where we supplemented the Secretary of State, was bad. But now that you're adding something new to it, is this thing better? Smile in front of the public, so I don't say that in front of us. This law and this solution certainly do not deserve support and, of course, I will not support it either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Grill. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u146	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I really didn't want to be personal, but since my dear colleague Vinko Gorenak named me, I decided to tell you. When Mr Gorenak and I were co-workers in the previous term, when our colleague, a member of our party, Dr Rado Bohinc, was Minister of the Interior, Dr Rado Bohinc had Mr Gorenak in his office. In addition, the Secretary of State at the time for Public Administration at the Ministry of the Interior was your current Minister, Mr Gregor Virant. The general director of the Police was Marko Pogorelc, all the more so as leftist or co-conspirator of our party. The division of ours and yours was quite appropriate, as you can see, mostly quite a lot of yours in our species. But since Mr Gorenak saw me at the Ministry of the Interior, of course he saw me, but in the cabinet I was not allowed to do anything, I went to the chief of staff every day and asked to get a job, then I was finally appointed editor of an internal magazine, from where I was transferred overnight without any explanation and moved to the asylum sector with which I was educated, with my experience I had absolutely nothing in common. I am pleased that I could also contribute there, but I would also add that there has been a reduction in wages, as you know, the Law on Public Servants prevents this. To make it possible, my job had been suspended and set up another. I'm just one in a thousand, dear colleagues, who've done this to them. In the Ministry of the Interior, when Minister Mate was replaced by all the leaders, not just the sectors, but all the services. Only two people from, say, 50 different departments in the Ministry and the police stayed in their jobs. Think about it. Then we'll talk about the manning lately. As you know, your government has tried to recruit the people that our Prime Minister will now have, Mr. Pahor. You've called for jobs in the cabinet of the Prime Minister. And let me tell you how to frame it. These positions of senior professional colleagues are referred to as the people who have served as officials in the current term. When she applied for one of these jobs - I know of a particular case - a lady who is a doctor of science, a very highly skilled worker, a state employee at the highest level of civil servants, with the knowledge of some foreign languages, she was rejected as inappropriate and a trainee arrived in a narrower selection. So don't go blind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mrs. Janja Klasinc. Otherwise, I will be grateful to all of you if we concentrate more on our debate on the amendment, because it will make it easier for us to express our views. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. As one of my colleagues previously replicated or discussed my performances, I would like to say the following for reasons of correctness and credibility. When I spoke about the 40 who, after the presidency, received a job at the foreign ministry or within the state administration, I must say that the list was wider and longer or longer. And many of these - I also have their records - which have been said about this, have not been invited to discuss whether they will get a job in the future or not. But they were young people who proved themselves during the last year and a half during the presidency. Moreover, you even put the pregnant women on the road that they gave birth to last week and left them without a presence. That's what I told Minister Virant. And another one, due to correctness. Those of you who dealt with the Staff Cross in the cabinet of the President of the Government on 14 October, you know that we had a constitutional session on 15 October when the mandate of Members of the former mandate expired. On 14 October, at the last meeting of the Government, you appointed two members of the Supervisory Councils, a colleague of the Zammernik and a colleague of Pajk, from the previous term of office. But the argument for the discharge of colleague France Križanič was that it was a conflict of interest, because he was elected a Member and that is why you resolved him in the supervisory council. Just so much for correctness, credibility. I'm not talking about legality or illegality. I'm just talking about how it started. And I didn't speak four years ago, but for the last two and a half months.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Kumer. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u150	First of all, I must say that it was really unpleasant to hear how extremely ugly and grave they were dealing with the honourable SD Member, Mrs Klasinc, at the Ministry of SD, Mr Bohinc, and that unfortunately her story only confirms the old fact that the party is eating its own children. Apparently, so are the daughters. I'm sorry it was like that, but it's only keeping us from today's darkness. Because I would remind you that the password under which you went to the elections was "responsibility for the future". And today you don't have to be embarrassed. Today, at one of the first meetings, you are fulfilling your password. Today, the SD, by voting for this law, is exercising its responsibility for the future of Mr Cwickle. True, though, people thought it was their future. In this case, they will pay for this future. But good. This is your auspicious surprise. This, I believe, is the new culture, the political culture announced by your President, Mr Pahor. But it is certainly a symbolic act, so be proud of it and make it with a smile on your mouth. I will certainly vote against it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. Mrs. Janja Klasinc asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u152	Wait a minute. I made it clear clearly and loudly that it was a second term when he was Minister Mate. And I was talking about this case. While I spoke earlier about your colleague, Mr Gorenak, and your other colleagues, who were under Mr Bohinc's mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u153	Thank you very much. It was a misunderstanding, Mr Grimes. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment? I'm opening time for an application. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u154	Thank you very much again. Before that, I was struck by the thought that the distinguished colleague Janja Klasinc obviously does not respect his party president, Mr Pahor. I think it's causing him trouble or itching. Because I think he said recently he was itching to get rashes on his skin if anyone starts talking about ours and yours. And she only talked about ours and yours. I expected you at least at the first session to endure without, as I said before, the logic of the Dolomite statement. Actually, I don't think that's right. That's why we see camps and factions within you. That's what I'm saying. On the other hand, although I will not support this law, it seems good to me to talk about the responsibility for the future of this future Member and, as a result, the Secretary-General of the Government that you have not written down that his right is when he returns, if he returns to the parliamentary bench, that he is a regular participant in royal dinners with his current companion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, how terrible is the pain of those who have not been invited to dinner. That's terrible, Mr. Grimes, it's your turn too. As people elected us because they expected us to be better, it wouldn't be that hard. You say we're talking about yours and ours. True, you only talk about ours this time, but you forget about yours. And this is the weakness that my fellow Members have also wanted to warn you about. But not to share again, but to measure with the same measures both in the opposition and in the coalition. However, a special treat is to quote what a colleague who said that what we are doing was tragically said at a meeting of the National Assembly four years ago, when you were actually extending this so-called right to all state secretaries, and I quote: "It is a simple fact that we allow him, a Member which was in accordance with the applicable legislation, to decide whether the electorate and the electorate in the elections elected to the National Assembly, that all that comes from this function is retained also in the event that he becomes part of the executive branch of power." No more and no less. That is to say, we give no new ratings to anyone with this, and we do not change the system in any way. On the contrary, because of the circumstances mentioned at the outset, it is said that this will now be the post of Deputy Minister, and we are simply coordinating the legal order so that it will be fair and just for everyone. I'm sorry we didn't invite you to explain our bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Boyan Kontic. Mr. Grimes, do you feel hurt for the debate? Here you go, then you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u158	Mr. Kontic, the awkward thing about you is that you're putting your statements on your head today. But today, if you're going to watch a magnetogram, I'm saying exactly the same thing as then. That state secretaries are deputy ministers and that even at government meetings they replace and even vote in the absence of a minister. So they have these powers. However, the Secretary-General of the Government does not, of course, have this right and this responsibility, which comes from this. That is why your proposal in this part is even worse than that story ever since. And we've already made this story clear enough, it turned out to be incomplete. In particular, this National Assembly, when voting on some later laws, such as the law on officials, went in a different direction and did not fully equalise the functions of the Minister and the functions of the Secretary of State. It would be right, therefore, from the principle of consistency, that if we did not go any further in this direction, which was originally set, then we should also take an appropriate step and this is deleted from the law. However, this solution is incomparably less controversial than that you are introducing it as Secretary-General of the Government, and I say again, it does not vote or bear this responsibility, as it is borne by each member of the Government or by the Secretary of State when the Minister replaces it. And that, once again, is what I've been talking about here today, unlike you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u160	Respectable assembly, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, distinguished presidents. First time I've heard from you. I am a novelty, and on my own behalf and probably also on behalf of any other newcomer, I would still have something to say about this debate. The position itself, as we sit here, looks like this is the scene of a pink punk game. Good thing we're here as judges, but we're watching you from the right and the left, how the ball goes here, how the charges go here and there. But I don't actually see any real meaning here. I understand that the coalition has decided to do so, and I also understand that the former coalition has had to deal with it. But we've been listening to this thing for an hour or so. One way or another, we know what the vote will bring. But, for example, there have been some under the belt of accusations that do not contribute to the level, nor to the reputation of this respected National Assembly. So I would ask you, by the way, as a newbie, whether we should mentally prepare for all four more years of such a pink punk game, so that we can know if we're sitting here, or going for coffee, or talking about other things. I'd like to ask you to take this matter seriously. Nevertheless, we are a responsible institution and I would ask that we get to the vote or what I know how. Does that make sense? On behalf of the new people, please. Thanks for understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I understand my colleague Györek, I hope everyone else, that the three-time opening of time and the three-time application to discuss the amendment is enough and I ask you, can I conclude the debate on the amendments? Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss the amendment anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, which is at 6 p.m. when we continue the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u162	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let's get back to work. We are moving on to the end of the 4th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Banking Act, the urgent procedure. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Members and Members of the Commission are requested to re-check the voting devices before the vote, in such a way that an orange light must be lit on the right side of the card next to the card. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the next 5th item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law on Changes and Supplements to the Public Finance Act, an urgent procedure. The amendments you have been reviewing have been tabled in the bill. The amendments are tabled in Articles 2, 3 and 4. We are moving on to the decision on amendment number 1 to article 2 tabled by Mr Matej Lahovnik on behalf of the Group of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? If you allow me, does any other parliamentary group want to explain their voice? He would like to explain his voice to Mr Franz Jurša. I'm sorry. The explanation for the vote is mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Vice President, Your Honor Minister! The intention of this law, or the addition of the law on public finances, was to release this spasm in the financial markets between financial institutions, how the state puts itself on the side, or, for example, on the back of Slovenian banks or banks, established in the Republic of Slovenia, to obtain loans on the interbank market and then to distribute these funds to the economy under these loans, under, of course, economic criteria and conditions. With this, banks can get loans because today, because the state is not behind them, it can't get them. That was the purpose of this marriage. This is the purpose of all the measures proposed to quickly, effectively obtain either State guarantees from financial institutions or recapitalise them or anything else. This proposal goes down to one level, and that is the problem. This proposal, however, says that the State can buy off a bad claim from a financial institution. Since the financial institution will not sell good claims, it will sell bad claims. And with this, of course, the state will accumulate this problem that the bank has. That, that wasn't the purpose of the law. What it is is individual aid to a bank for an individual problem. So the bank has a bad claim on one company, this economic company cannot return it, the bank is in trouble because of it, and now this problem is being passed on to the country. And that's all. That wasn't the purpose of this marriage. This may be the purpose of a new law when those companies that have bad claims or those that have obligations to banks cannot be settled. That's why I think it's such an amendment, which is just an option, that's what the proponent said - that it opens the door, but I think it's a completely wrong purpose for this law that was made. It is said to relax the spasm on the interbank market in order to set up the state for financial institutions so that they can obtain credit and finance. That is why, of course, we cannot support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u164	Thank you very much. On behalf of the delegation? In my own name. Does anyone else want to do it on their own? [[Nobody.]] Mr. Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u165	Thank you very much. As the first to be signed under an amendment signed by MEPs and Members from a number of parliamentary groups, both from Zares and SD, LDS and the Slovenian National Party. The essence of this amendment is also to allow for the redemption of claims of credit institutions established in the Republic of Slovenia. It is true that someone can now say that this is unlawful state aid. We can discuss this. But as I have already said, we have been talking here all day about state aid to financial institutions, which are also indirectly received by the real sector of the company. It's just one option, one option. The government may not take advantage of it at all, it may not be necessary to do so, but it is only right to leave this option open in marriage. After all, we do not know what will happen in the coming weeks, months. A few weeks ago, they were talking about banks that the law we're adopting today is not going to be needed at all. Everything was in the best order, but we see that all countries, including Slovenia, had to intervene to ensure the stability of the financial system. And who says something like this won't happen in the next few months? We don't know, maybe we won't have to use this option and it'll only stay as an option. However, if this happens, it is only right that we have the same option as in Germany and some other countries where they have incorporated it into the same law. And if this is allowed within the European Union, in Germany, then I do not know why it is prohibited for Slovenia. However, I agree that this can be discussed, but let us not forget, we are talking about state aid here today. And this is one option that increases flexibility, but it is not necessarily that the government will take advantage of it at any time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u166	Thank you very much. As the explanation of vote has been concluded, we are moving on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There were 82 votes in favour, 51 against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the second amendment tabled on behalf of the Group of Members by Dr. Franz the Crusader. We're voting. There were 82 votes in favour and 81 in favour. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the third amendment tabled by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Mr. Jelinčič, can I have your explanation of vote, on behalf of the delegation? [[In my own name.]] Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just to explain why we tabled this amendment. Because we do not want Slovenian taxpayers to pay various financial speculations and transactions to certain gentlemen. Or, in short, that it would not happen again or that NKBM and similar matters would not be repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I note that there is no longer a desire to explain the vote and I am putting to the vote the amendment under point 3 tabled by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 7 votes against 65. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 65.]] I note that the amendment of the Slovenian National Party is not accepted. We are moving on to two amendments to Article 3. First of all, it is an amendment to the amendment tabled by the Parliamentary Group of Members with the first-signed Dr. France Križanič in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the amendment to the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party is not accepted. We are moving on to amendment number 2 tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed Dr. Frances Križanič. Explanation of voice. On behalf of the delegation? Here you go, Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u169	Thank you very much. By replacing number 8 with 12, of course, we have no problems. This is probably due to years, according to the end of 2010, and this sum is probably the result of this harmonisation. However, we have a major problem with reading this amendment, although it is unclear as to what I am reading, thus empowering the Ministry of Finance to approve guarantees in the amount of EUR 12 billion and the Minister of Finance to sign these guarantees without law, without Parliament. This is in my opinion against the Constitution. I am also concerned that some who have defended this in the debate and have said that this is similar to other guarantee laws, we have here a whole bunch of warranty laws to Dars, where it says exactly what specific section of a particular highway is given a guarantee to which the guarantee is given at the height of the guarantee. In this law, however, this amendment opens the way for guarantees. We don't know who. Is it a bank or is it an insurance company or is it someone else? We don't know who we're vouching for. We don't know who. We know this is a financial institution. Which one, we don't really know. We don't know how long. Whether it's 100 million, whether it's one billion euros, or even two billion euros. Your Honor, that's what it says in here. I can't say otherwise. I think it's too harsh a thing and it's the result of a desire for flexibility and operationality, if I understand. That's what you say, not in Parliament, because it takes time. That's not true. This may take one afternoon if matters are operational and if they are indeed necessary. If necessary, it may be immediately for a government meeting, including an extraordinary meeting, an urgent meeting, a pardon, a meeting of Parliament, may be convened within one hour, if the situation so requires and this matter is accepted. And here through the back door comes one relatively problematic solution and we will oppose it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Visac. On behalf of the delegation? Mr Križanič on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u171	I would add that even in the case of guarantees, since we take a precedent, the guarantees given by the Parliament to Dars are some kind of precedent of the legal regulatory guarantees that we give under this law and they are not, and Dars then takes credit with different banks and that guarantee together then applies to more credit relations. Here we have defined more precisely, in accordance with the requirement of the Legislative and Legal Service of Parliament, what is the procedure, who is entitled. Not all financial institutions are justified, only credit institutions regulated by the Bank of Slovenia are said to be recognised as such under the Banking Act. The deadline is set and the repayment of this is determined. So it's similar to Darce's. This is a guarantee given for certain relationships, for loans on the interbank market, not for all loans. However, it will be further defined in the amendment that the legislative service has written and we will submit it after this law is passed if it is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u172	Thank you very much. To not only apply because Mr Jelinčič has already applied, I ask who wants to apply for the debate on behalf of the Group of Members. I'm opening time for an application. Mr Zmago Jelinčič applied first on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. I'm sure Mr. Barovic is making a mistake. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In this case, I agree with Mr Visionak's explanation. The fact is, there's a little door to get money for all kinds of options, and we can't possibly land on that. In fact, it is a very strange and very perfidious way in which the National Assembly allows certain financial and other companies to easily reach funding only through an agreement with the Government. The pledge will be made by the state, paid by the taxpayers, profited by the one who will receive the loan, but only by those who will be in good relations with the government, political of course. I am sorry that no one has actually supported, except two other than our parliamentary group, our amendment, because this shows that the tycoons are in all parliamentary groups or connected to all political parties. It is true, however, that we will vote against this amendment. Because if we tried to limit certain thefts to some extent before, and we can't limit them there, we'll try them here at least. I am sure that Slovenia needs at least three more mandates to look at its country and the benefits of the country, not at the personal benefits. However, I am afraid that, given how we work with this country, we will have already lost the country by then. Since 1992, some have worked hard to destroy and lose Slovenia. So far, they've done it to a large extent, but there's still something left. Let us at least keep this in the hands of the people, not that some will get fat on the account of the state, even at the expense of political parties and also at the expense of such laws. We sure as hell won't break an amendment like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Since there are no more reports to the debate, we are moving to a vote on the amendment under number two to article three, tabled by the group with the first-signed Dr. France Križanič. We're voting. There were 81 votes in favour and 81 votes in favour. 43 votes against 36. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the amendment to Article 4 tabled by the Group of Members with the first-signed Dr. France Križanič. I am opening the application for entry into force on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has been reported on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u175	Thank you very much. This amendment shows all the perfidity of the previous amendment that has been adopted. Now we're going to blur the eyes of the National Assembly by saying that instead of "at once" it says "at least once every three months after the enactment of this law." That is to say, for at least every three months, we will quietly bring a piece of paper to the National Assembly and say, guys, we still owe it here, and we still owe it here, and we still owe it here, and now we're going to make a budget rebalancing to cover it up somehow. And then again three months from now, we owe it here, and here we owe it, and this company is booming, and this society is booming, the country is going to "the devil in the ass," but we're going to make another budget rebalance. And so on, ad Calendas Graecas. I think this marriage is terrible. I wonder how we have such economic experts to write such laws, unless it's a very crafty purpose, I can't think of anything else. In Germany, such a law would fall, I don't think they would even get it at the table in Parliament, because they would have torn it up before, and such a professor would certainly not have lectured on this subject to his students. I'm sure you don't. Unless they are taught by that typical Western European initial capitalist management; in this case, I applaud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar, it's a mistake. There are no further applications for explanations of vote. I shall put the amendment to Article 4 to the vote. We're voting. There were 80 votes in favour and 67 in favour against 4. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have thus exhausted the vote on the amendments tabled in the second reading. I ask whether any of the Members or Members wish to table an amendment in the third reading. Yes, Mr. Bojan Kontic, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, do you agree to give the Group of Members 10 minutes is enough? 10 minutes to submit the amendment. Whether to take a break at this time or continue with the other points. Can we move on? [[Yeah.]] I'm breaking up with this point. We are moving to the next item in the agenda, this is the 6th item - Proposal for a Government Act. No amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a government law, so I propose that we vote on the bill as it was tabled by the home labour body. I'm going to the vote. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] At the same time, I inform you that the law was not uncoordinated and I was not informed by the Law-Legal Service, nor by the Government. The law is therefore adopted. We are moving on to the 7th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a bill on Members. Amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and the Slovenian Democratic Party have been tabled in the draft law. I'm putting an amendment to the vote. You want a debate? Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Any other parliamentary group would like to explain their vote? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Preseknik on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have already explained a few times today why we made this proposal. I must also explain that we gave it as soon as the draft amendments to the law were published or as soon as it was on the network. Before that, I listened to some comments that we later started doing this. With this reasoning, I would like to reiterate once again that we want to bring the law back to the level, that is, to the solutions that were four years ago, because it proved that there were no valid reasons and that there was a poor experience in the past mandate. And we're not talking about one function, we're talking about about about 20 functions. As we say, we want to bring the law back to its former state in 2004, because practice has also shown this. I think it's positive that if we find that one thing doesn't work, that the changes have been poorly prepared, and that they haven't been in place, that it's good to admit this mistake and we're trying to fix it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u178	Thank you very much. As there are no further statements to explain the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, we are moving to a vote. We're voting. There are 83 Members present, 44 votes against 35. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 35.]] The amendment was accepted. In view of the adoption of the second reading amendment, I ask whether any parliamentary group or MP wishes to table an amendment to the third reading law. [[He doesn't want to.]] We are voting on the law as a whole. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. He's here. [[....]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] There are 70 [[....]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues! Whether I can declare the result or not, the law will not be established. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 18. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 18.]] The law, as drafted by the amendment adopted, has been adopted. Procedural? Mr. Znidarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u179	The law was adopted, but, Mr Vice-President, most Members did not know what it was voting on. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] It's a funny thing for you. In fact, we received another point at the table of the amendment, and many thought we were voting on this amendment, not on the wallpaper. I will sleep peacefully because I did not vote in this dilemma at all, but many did not know what we were voting on. This vote was more than problematic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u180	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I do not think that I was in a hurry to conduct the meeting, I have communicated what we are voting on, and I have allowed the possibility of someone also applying for explanations of vote. Unfortunately, we were or were some of you inattentive, but the law was passed. The amendment that has just been tabled or placed on the bench as an amendment of the third reading coalition group to the Proposal for a Law on Public Finance. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I would've [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u182	Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u183	Yes, procedurally. When this amendment is reached at the table, I propose a 20-minute break to look at it, to see it and then decide how we will vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u184	The Group proposes a 20-minute recess before the vote. The amendment is being shared, Mr. Tanko. Can we count now? Thus, the parliamentary group proposes a 20-minute recess before the vote on the amendment tabled by the four parliamentary groups. We'll continue the session at 1850.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u185	Colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. We're moving on to the session. We are moving on to the third reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Finance and we are discussing the amendment to Article 3 tabled by the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Excuse me. I'm opening an application for discussion. Anyone who wants to discuss it should sign up. Mr. Magg has the word. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u186	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, in principle, we have no problem with this because it is a more precise dictatorship. But I think there's been a mistake. This amendment states that in the fourth paragraph, in the second sentence, the text is added and in the third sentence after the words 'financial markets' the text is added. I think it's meant here in the fourth sentence. In the third sentence, if I can read it well, there is no such thing as the word "financial markets". I think it's a mistake, and that's probably how it is with this correction. Unless it's different again.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Križanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u188	Your Honor! This amendment was conceived by the Legal and Legislative Service, which thus confirms the legality and constitutionality of this resolution of this law. By further specifying, it is true that the classification she wanted and which has been employed by me all day, including with a lot of emotional inputs, has been complemented. Let me explain what it looks like and I'll read it. The third paragraph of Article 3 now reads: "The country's guarantees issued pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article for liabilities under credit institutions may only be issued to credit institutions up to a total of EUR 12 billion." The fourth paragraph now reads as proposed. However, I will only read the last sentence so that I do not burden the time of this important assembly, but it reads: "The terms of the loan contracts secured by the State guarantee must not deviate substantially from the conditions which at the time the guarantee is issued in the financial markets when the RS is in debt." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I note that the motioners believe that the amendment is properly tabled and that it can be voted on. Mr. Visjak, an explanation in your own name?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u190	Your Honor, I think we need to clear this up, see if we have a consistent amendment or not. See, in the fourth paragraph, the amendment in the second reading changed the first sentence, or we replaced the first sentence with the text of the four sentences. That's what we did in the second reading. And now in the third reading, in the same fourth paragraph in the third sentence, we want to amend or add the words "financial markets" to the words "on debt". But I can't find the word "financial markets" in the third sentence of this fourth paragraph, but I can find it in the fourth sentence. I mean, if we accept an amendment that's totally inconsistent, we'll probably all have problems. And I hope you're taking what I'm saying for granted.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Križanič, do we suggest a few minutes of rest to review the text? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Visjak is right to accept a text that would be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u192	No, no, if possible, only the third must be changed to the fourth.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u193	Please join us.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u194	Then it takes a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u195	Whether I understand correctly, Mr Križanič, because you can correct or complete the amendment by the end of the debate. Procedural, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I request a 10-minute recess before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u197	Mr. Jelinčič, would you like to?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In view of this farce, which is taking place in the National Assembly, we will obstruct this meeting in our parliamentary group from now on. But during this time, sit down, remember, find the right words, letters, and perhaps consider a German proverb that says, "Drei Professoren Stadt verloren." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I suggest 10 minutes of rest, until 19.10. At the same time, I would like to say that the debate is still open. If anyone wants to discuss it, he'll have his word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u200	Let's get back to work. The proposers found that the amendment tabled should be corrected, so I give the floor to Mr Kontic on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. To the amendment previously tabled, we have tabled an amendment, in the second paragraph: In the fourth paragraph, the words "issued for" are added in the second sentence after the words "obligations from title". In the third sentence, the words "at the time of appointment" shall be inserted after the words "financial markets". So it's a change not in the fourth sentence, not in the third sentence, but in the fourth sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u202	Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u203	I'm an electrician. The details are also very important in technology, but they are even more important in finance. If a comma is wrong or where a dot is wrong or at all, if there is too much or too little, it can be very important. Therefore, it is necessary to be precise here, and if I understand correctly the leader of the SD Group, they have now replaced the word "thirds" in their amendment with the word "fourth". It's the only change you've made. It's not enough, gentlemen. For the first sentence of the second paragraph of this amendment, which is inserted in the third reading, I find nowhere to contain the third paragraph of Article 3 or the words "issued for". "Treason for." That's not a word. I don't see it. [[...]] [[Back-up advertising.]] Yeah, but then you're gonna have to fix the amendment again. [[...]] I asked you earlier if the fourth is the only change. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u204	Mr. Kontic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u205	Thank you very much. That is precisely why, Mr Vizjak, I have peed the entire text of this paragraph. In the fourth paragraph, in the second sentence after the words "issued for" the words "obligation from title" shall be added. In the fourth sentence, after the words 'financial markets', the words 'at the time of assignment' are added.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u206	Mr. Visac, is he all right? Can I do it again? I understand that the applicants have corrected the amendment to Article 3 in the second paragraph. The correction is as follows: in the first instance the word "issue" is replaced by the word "issued" and in the second row the word "in the third sentence" is replaced by "in the fourth sentence". Is the content of the amendment clear? Anybody want to talk about him? Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I will not discuss it, but I would still suggest that it wait until the vote is so long that we get an amendment to the table so that we can read it in peace and check whether the matter actually stands. And there's no problem that after the amendment is split, we get ten minutes of time to re-examine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u208	Mr. Tank, how long do you need?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u209	Mr President, I propose ten minutes after we get the amendment to the table. Not anymore. But it just takes us so long to check it out, but you can be angry or not angry, it didn't come from our fault.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u210	Mr Kontic, can you re-submit the revised text of the amendment?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have already tabled the amendment and now it will be reproduced and, of course, distributed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u212	Then I suggest, Mr. Tanko, how long will he be divided? I suggest we take a break, then we move on at 7:30. Mr. Tanko, is he all right?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-11-11-SDZ5-Izredna-01.ana.u213	We're moving on. The amended amendment by the four groups of Members is submitted. Would anyone else like to discuss the proposed amendment? I conclude the debate and put the proposed amendment to the vote. We're voting. There were 75 votes in favour and 75 votes in favour. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the law in full after the third reading. We're voting. There were 75 votes in favour, 73 in favour, and no one in favour. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I did not say before the vote that the law was harmonised. With the adoption of the law, we have concluded this agenda item as well as today's meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
