ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 4th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 58, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Renata Brunskole from 2.00 p.m. to 4.00 p.m., Alan Bukovnik, Villa Rezman, Melita Župevc, Vito Rožej, Janez Ribič and Janja Klasinc. I have invited representatives of the government to all the agenda items and I welcome all the present! We are moving on to the agenda of the 4th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Please, do you want procedural? Please, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable President of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u3	Are you speaking on behalf of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u4	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u5	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u6	Dear President, President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The Slovenian Democratic Party shall propose or require an amendment to the agenda for the consideration of agenda items at this extraordinary meeting. This extraordinary meeting has taken place at the request of Members and Members of Parliament, motioners and three opposition parties, and we believe that it is crucial and necessary to hold a debate and a vote first on the proposed conclusions of the agenda item, which is of a general nature, to say that we are talking about measures and the timely action of the Government, and only then to speak and take decisions on concrete measures, such as the two proposed laws proposed by the Government to Parliament following an urgent procedure. Therefore, this general debate will determine whether these measures, which are proposed, are sufficient or insufficient and which raise more questions than they close. Therefore, I think that if we were to act in such a way, we would first decide on concrete measures which, in fact, after a very rapid procedure following the request for an emergency meeting, would come to Parliament and only then what this meeting is intended for. Not to mention that then the core of this meeting will be in the night hours, and this will also be associated in less appropriate circumstances. And there's something else that leads us to this. Parliament, in particular the College, has been relatively illogical for a long time with a decision on the procedure for the two bills forwarded to Parliament by the previous government. Indeed, at the beginning of November, these laws were sent to Parliament, and only a day before the Parliament had defined itself or the College to that end, as well as the current government. And that was also why we proposed to convene an extraordinary meeting. Well, Mr. President. On the basis of the 65th Article of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or the need for an amended order of treatment, the item on the agenda entitled Proposal for Decisions concerning the Government's slow action shall be considered as the first.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u7	Thank you very much. We will certainly put your proposal to the vote, but after the agenda is adopted. Then I will put to the vote your proposal, as provided for in Article 65(1). Therefore, I have not received any proposals for withdrawal, so we are moving on to enlargement, to consideration and decision on proposals for extending the agenda. Following the agreement of the College of the President of the National Assembly, I propose that the agenda be extended by considering two proposals for laws: a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act - an urgent procedure and a proposal for a law amending the Law on Income - an urgent procedure. You received the proposal by letter dated 19 December 2008. I propose that we discuss both proposals for enlargement together. He wants to speak to a government representative who's a lawmaker? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I am closing the debate on enlargement proposals and moving on to decision-making. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting device, which means that an orange light must burn on the right hand side of the card. We are deciding on a proposal to extend the agenda by means of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act - an urgent procedure. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 1. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will treat the point as an A1 point. We are deciding on a proposal to extend the agenda by means of a proposal for a law amending the Income Law - an urgent procedure. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will treat this point as a B1 point. And we are moving on to a full agenda. I propose that today's meeting be held by the Assembly, as you have received by reference, and by additional amendments adopted. We're voting. Procedural. Apologize. [[...]] Procedurally, Mr. Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I think that we should first decide on the procedural proposal by our colleague Viszak on the order of the points, but before we decide on it, I propose that the President of the Government also be identified by his colleague Viszak's proposal. In fact, there was no meeting of the committee of the President of the Government, there was a similar procedural proposal and we were voted on. It is now an opportunity for the President of the Government to say whether he wants us to discuss first the measures, the general work and then the measures, or whether we will reverse it as you suggested, in short, that we have an illogical order. I propose that the President of the Government say whether he agrees with the procedural proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u9	Mr. Tanko. The President of the Government will be identified when he considers himself to be identified and therefore does not need to be specifically called upon. I will continue to vote on the agenda and then, as usual and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, on your proposal that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 65(1), we should consider as the first on the agenda of today's session. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 2. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against two.]] We note that the agenda of the 4th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We are now moving to a vote on your procedural proposal. As I understand it, the SDS Group's procedural proposal is that item 1 be considered as the first item in today's session, and I am asking who wants to discuss it? [[...]] If not, then I would point out that the proposal will be adopted if not opposed by a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 41. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 41.]] The proposal is not accepted. At the same time, I would like to inform you that it is necessary and that both proposed laws will enter into force this year, because they also relate to this year, we will vote on the amendments and on both laws 30 minutes after the discussion, on the first law under a1 and b1. This is how we will do this vote today. It is only in this way that both laws can be published and entered into force this year. So we will vote on both laws today. Please, procedurally? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to the A1 item of the agenda - Defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Hello! Dear Members and Members, distinguished President of the National Assembly! Allow me to briefly present the main solutions to the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act. [[Technical problems with microphones.]] The basic objective of the bill is to eliminate or prevent the occurrence of harmful consequences of the financial crisis, simplify the procedure for taxpayers and ensure that the tax administration works smoothly until the new tax information system is acquired. The bill solves or mitigates negative effects or prevents the emergence of new consequences of the financial crisis. To this end, the proposed tax measure, which relates to the corporate tax collection procedure, is changing the way in which the amount of the corporate tax levy is calculated. The tax rate under the Law on corporate income tax for 2008 was 22%, for 2009 it will be 21% and for 2010 and for the following years 20% of the tax base. The proposal would provide for an ongoing reduction in the corporate tax burden, so that the tax rate applicable in 2009 and not the tax rate of the previous year, as in the current regulation, can be taken into account when determining the amount of the tax on legal persons' income for 2009. The proposed measure would relieve the economy of liquidity in 2009 and 2010. On the basis of the assessment, it shows that this measure will relieve the economy of liquidity by around EUR 50 million. Data from 2007 are still much larger. From the perspective of the State budget, this amount reduces corporate income tax revenues in 2009 and, under the remaining conditions, reduces the obligation to pay back the overpaid tax in 2010. The proposed amendment to Article 408 of the Tax Procedure Act provides a legal basis for the tax authority to be allowed even after 31. 12. 2008 Disclosure data which are tax confidentiality to a natural or legal person who processes data on behalf of and on behalf of the tax authority as a contractual processor. When dealing with data deemed to be tax confidentiality, the contracting authorities must take into account Article 30 of the Tax Procedure Act which lays down measures and procedures for the protection of data which are tax confidentiality. With a view to unifying the Tax Procedure Act with the provisions of the law governing financial transactions, insolvency proceedings, in particular for termination, shall be re-set to re-exempt the tax on bankruptcy and forcible settlement, by regulating the consequences of bankruptcy proceedings on the tax authority, where they occur as a creditor of the insolvency debtor, natural persons being equalized to those resulting from the insolvency law, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. The purpose of the other amendments is to simplify the tax procedure for taxpayers. The time limit for a complaint against a decision rejecting a complaint against an inspection decision shall be reduced from 30 days to 15 days, ensuring a quicker resolution of complaints. The taxable person shall, in the event that the tax authority issues a decision to reopen the procedure, have no special appeal against this decision, as it may challenge it in a complaint against a decision issued in the renewal of the procedure, simplify the procedure again for decisions by which the payment of the tax is fixed on a meal and will be reimbursed on a regular basis; and the tax authority shall, in accordance with the provisions of the Tax Procedure Act, provide that the taxable persons whose income does not exceed the amount of the general benefit in a given year will no longer be subject to an informational calculation of the proceeds, so that the taxpayers of that tax will not have to pay or be burdened with additional information. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give my word to the vice president, mag. Radovan Zerjav, for presentation of the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of the Government is no longer a respected colleague and colleague! [[....]] The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held in the framework of its second emergency meeting. 12. as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with a proposal for adoption following an urgent procedure approved by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 6th session, on 19. 12. 2008 The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the text submitted from the point of view of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. The specific comments of the Legislative and Legal Services are addressed to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 10, 13, 21 and 22 of the legislative proposal. On this basis, following prior coordination with the proposer, the law in the context of the additional working material at the meeting of the Committee addressed the Committee's proposals for amendments to Articles 2, 4, 10, 21 and 22 of the legislative proposal, which are reflected in the following report. There shall be 22 qualified candidates. 12. The SDS Group tabled an amendment to Article 19 of the proposed text providing for a new third paragraph of that provision. The meeting of the committee was attended by the Minister responsible for Finance, a representative of the Government from the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. The reasons for the marriage text give rise to the essential emphasis of the solutions presented. The main objective of the law is to remove or prevent the emergence of new consequences of the financial crisis, simplify the procedure for taxpayers and the smooth part of Dursa to provide a new tax information system, including with a view to simplifying the basic law with provisions governing financial transactions, insolvency proceedings or forcible termination. After a brief introductory update, explanation of the articles by the Minister responsible for Finance and presentation of the opinion by the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee's discussion focused on the amendments to the basic text tabled. This focused attention on the provisions of Articles 2, 4, 10, 19, 21 and 22 of the legislative proposal. At the same time, on the basis of the questions raised and the opinions presented, the debaters and the representatives of the Government were given answers. At the time of its consideration of the individual articles, the Committee adopted five amendments to the Committee. In doing so, the Board of the Dictially Amended Amendment of the SDS did not adopt Article 19. At the same time, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which those amendments are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u14	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! It seems to me that the measure is right, it is going in the right direction, and I think it will help solve this economic crisis as well. Amendments to the Tax Procedure Law will ensure a current reduction in the burden on legal persons by allowing the tax rate applicable in 2009 to be taken into account when determining the amount of the tax on legal persons' income for 2009 rather than the rate of the tax applicable in the previous tax system. The basic objective of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act, which the Government has sent to the National Assembly following an emergency procedure, is to intervene in order to combat the financial crisis. In addition to simplifying the procedure for taxpayers and allowing the tax administration to function smoothly, the proposed law changes the way the tax is collected from legal persons. The current regulation provides that the tax rate applicable in the previous year shall be taken into account when determining the tax contribution from legal persons' income. This will ensure that a lower rate of tax burden is taken into account in an unfavourable economic environment since 1.1.2009, and not that which is due last year, when the economic situation has been significantly better. The contribution from legal persons' income will thus be lower and businesses will thus increase liquidity and thus release some of the funds for new investments. In this way, the amount of the taxes paid will be closer to the amount of the tax to be paid in 2010 on the basis of the levy. Social Democrats support simplifying the procedures for taxpayers and allowing the smooth work of the tax administration to provide the new tax information system we need. The establishment of the tax system is also necessary because it enables tax collection and higher tax revenues to be effective. Since the proposed measure, proposed by the Government following the urgent adoption procedure, will relieve the economy for about €50 million, we will also support the aforementioned law, both Members and Members of the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr. Mag. Mr Andrej Visiak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u16	Dear President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome the basic purpose of this law, namely that the tax rates and the adjustments related thereto for next year are adjusted to the actual tax rate, which has also been in force this year. Well, we welcome this basic purpose, but I would like to point out the following. This bill does not give some EUR 50 million to the economy, but the state budget is merely liquidating liquidity for this figure. For the tax, if it were not to be paid in the form of an advance, would have to be paid in one way or another - the same figure, we are talking only about the difference in interest, which would have been at some two percent rate and given that it is paid over the year, it would have been, say, a net effect, the public financial effect of this law of some one million euros. If it is. It is true, however, that liquidity is an important measure for the economy and that liquidity is a burden for the budget. That's right. And that's why we welcome him because the intention of marriage is real. However, when we talk about how much this law gives to the economy, we need to be relatively accurate and precise here. We have also had some concerns and some comments at the time of the consideration of this law. One such fundamental point is that, in addition to the measure that we are all talking about, it is said that the tax on the income of legal persons is paid according to the tax rate in force during the year, and there are still some solutions in this law, which have nothing to do with the financial crisis, even less with the resolution of the financial crisis and, of course, do not justify the urgency of the procedure. The Ministry of Finance added them because it was an opportunity and through this emergency procedure they also solved this technical, say, problem. For example, Article 1 is already like this because we have stopped to consider tax also the costs of some proceedings before the criminal authority. Well, given that the basic intention is real, we'll support the marriage. It is unfortunate, however, that an amendment has not been adopted whereby we wanted to publish, on the basis of the relevant act of the Minister of Finance, a list of those contractual operators to which the tax authority may disclose the information which is tax confidentiality and the type of data that they may process. Of course, that's what we wanted through the amendment. The amendment went down, and because it fell, we can't even fix it at this session. This is said to be the case, now to the public, and also to those who might benefit from this information, who are actually processing this classified information for the purposes of, say, the information system or any other activities carried out by the Tax Administration. We estimate that it is a step in the right direction. We'll back him up. Unfortunately, we can no longer implement some of the corrections we have planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Proposal for a law amending the Tax Procedure Act. It could be said that it consists of two parts. The first part is in the function of legal changes to mitigate the negative effects of the financial crisis, notably the amendment of Article 371 of the Act, which relates to the calculation of corporate tax indemnities and the effect of which is to be 50 million for taxpayers or an equally high minus for the state budget. This substantive part, or this substantive part, also includes another amendment to the provisions which raises the amount to which there is an obligation or no obligation to lodge a tax return. The second group could include the provision allowing disclosure of data representing tax confidentiality to external data processors. In doing so, of course, the whole weakness or the fact that it is unsustainable that the Tax Administration still does not have the appropriate information system, because if this information system existed and was provided in the past, they would not have these problems. Of course, some technical and operational amendments have also been added to these necessary and necessary amendments, which have been made by the Legislative and Legal Service to the comments and only after the recess, when they have been coordinated between the proposer and the Legal and Legislative Service, and have been corrected by the relevant amendments, but it is necessary to be aware that changes in the technical and operational nature or the resolution of the weaknesses of the current law. Since these shortcomings have been resolved, we will indeed be in the Group of Members a bill, as we also supported it on the Committee, including all amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u20	Dear Mr. President. Respectable ministers. Colleagues and colleagues. The DeSUS Group will support amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act. We urge the applicants that they are needed because of the simplified tax procedure for a taxable person in order to ensure a consistent tax procedure, to comply with other legislation and due to nomotechnic corrections, and at the end stage also due to the minor consequences of the financial crisis, as shown in the proposed tax measure, and to the corporate tax collection process. Otherwise, the Group of Members had comments which we also made on the working body. We are therefore skeptical of the abolition of the right of a taxable person to appeal against the decision to reopen the procedure. While the applicant considers that the legal security of the taxpayers is not distorted, we consider it quite the opposite, since this makes it impossible for the debtors to exercise their rights more quickly. We also had doubts as to the duplication of provisions relating to ageing. In fact, the proposal provides that, after the expiry of the limitation period, it shall begin to run again and that this time running before the interruption shall not be counted within the limitation period. The DeSUS Group points out that the break in our legislation has already been generally regulated in Article 369 of the Bond Code, which expressly stipulates that after the break, the limitation begins to run again and that the time elapsed before the break does not count within the limitation period laid down by the law. That is why we believe that this is a duplication; otherwise, we leave this to the applicant if he wants to clarify the changes in this way, and we do not have any specific comments. The novelty brings two essential positive things, namely, the incorporation or compliance in procedural rules of the provisions of other laws governing personal bankruptcy and the prior or replacement of the investment vouchers of one sub-fund for investment vouchers of other sub-funds in the context of the termination of the sub-assets under the same umbrella mutual fund as regulated by the income law. We agree with the proposed solution that, in the latter case, a procedural determination should also be made, after the resident, no provision should be made for the assessment of the income from the profit from the redemption of the investment vouchers of the umbrella fund if such redemptions of the investment vouchers were intended solely to offset the costs associated with the transfer of the debtors between the deck fund sub-funds. It is therefore appropriate to support this proposal as it makes it possible, from a procedural point of view, to exercise the substantive right laid down in the Income Law. Members of the DeSUS will therefore support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers! The novelty we have before us has been prepared by the current Government of the Republic of Slovenia as one of the measures to mitigate the negative consequences of the financial crisis. However, in the SLS Group, we note that changes and additions to the Tax Procedure Act bring more novelties that would relate to mitigation or the prevention of the negative consequences of the financial crisis. Basically, it is only one tax measure which relates to the process of collecting corporate income tax. Article 371 of the Tax Procedure Act is amended in order to eliminate and prevent the occurrence of harmful consequences of the financial crisis. In the SLS Group, we support, however, the amendment whereby the taxpayers will pay a tax adjustment for the current tax period according to the amount of the tax calculated from the tax base after the tax calculation for the previous tax period and according to the rate of the current tax period. Consequently, the tax rate of 21% of the tax base instead of 22% of the tax base will be taxed in accordance with the Law on corporate income tax next year. However, we all have to admit that this 1% does not play such a role in small and even medium-sized entrepreneurs to be called crisis resolution. We also do not understand why the Government did not propose to amend the Law on corporate tax, where there would be much more room for manoeuvre to reduce the tax rate. Perhaps we would introduce provisions that only deal with the crisis period. Other amendments and additions are intended to make this law more or less uniform with other legislation or editorial corrections. Thus, a newly established tax write-off for bankruptcy and forcible settlement is the case where the bankruptcy debtor is a natural person and the creditor tax authority. In accordance with the Financial Transactions Act in insolvency and forced termination proceedings, a tax which has not been paid in the course of a personal bankruptcy procedure shall only be deducted on the basis of a court’s decision on discharge of obligations. We also agree that there is no need in practice to extend the time limit for a complaint against a decision rejecting the appeal. After all, in the event of rejection, it is only for formal and not substantive reasons. In the SLS Group, we will support the amendment because it provides a solution to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis. Unfortunately, this measure is far from sufficient in a global sense. As I have already mentioned, in general we would expect slightly more drastic, ambitious and robust changes and additions, perhaps some other law, such as the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Greetings to ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act has unanimous support at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. More. We estimate that the right law is at the right time and with the right measures. In the times foretold, more than a robust, headless rush is needed to make the steps considerate, bold, and cautious, and to keep on following each other in the right direction. Therefore, it seems to us that this law will have an important impact on the mitigation of the consequences of the financial crisis, on simplifying the tax procedure for the taxpayer, so that, of course, the matter will be more consistent. Even those editorial corrections that clearly disturb some of them - I must say that there are no problems with them in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. On the contrary, it seems to us that it is important for this society and for our work to see a problem at any time in the process, a mistake to correct it, of course, and therefore, of course, that we do not have any problems with these technical and operational changes, but of course we want to see it in the legislation and in the envisaged procedures governing it, in the future it is even more precise and complete. Today it has been heard, even what the financial effects of this law will be. We have heard the figures, and between EUR million and EUR 50 million, regardless of what they will be like in these coming times, it is not an important million euros, but every euro and every cent is important. We note that this is a path that will result in less administrative, less time-consuming and less financial expenditure for certain entrepreneurs, so we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of agenda item 1.b. This concludes this agenda item. We move on to 1.b DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE LEGISLATION LEGISLATION, A CERTIFICATE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the President of the Government to further explain the bill. Mr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance, Dr. Križanič, please. Now you can head for the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u26	Thank you very much. So, honourable Members and Members, honourable President of the National Assembly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared a comprehensive set of measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis. The proposal covers both financial policy measures and economic policy, where particular emphasis is placed on measures to slow down economic growth, to increase the liquidity of the economy, to subsidise labour costs at the time of economic downturn and to take measures to further the quality of Slovenia's development. Measures in the field of fiscal policy, including measures in the area of restructuring of public financial revenues to further decommission the economy, are also an integral part of this. Your Honor! In July 2008, an amendment to the Income Act was adopted re-imposing a relief for investment in business income, i.e. the income of natural persons, in the form of a reduction in the tax base. The reduction in the tax base is possible at 20% of the amount invested in equipment and in intangible long-term assets, but mostly at 10,000 euros in the year of investment and 10,000 euros in the fiscal year after the year of investment, and most of all in the amount of the tax base, which means that in each tax year the highest possible relief is 10,000 euros if the taxable person has sufficient tax base. In the event that the tax base is too low in the first two years to be taken full advantage of, the law provides that the unused part of the relief may be used in the next four years. Equipment shall not be considered as furniture and office equipment, other than computer equipment, and motor vehicles other than hybrid and electric motor vehicles and motor vehicles meeting at least the emission requirements of the EVRO 6. The transitional provisions provide that in 2008 it is also recognised to facilitate the purchase of motorized cargo vehicles which meet at least the emission requirements of the EURO 5. Non-substantial long-term assets shall not include a good name and the corresponding costs of investing in foreign tangible fixed assets. An undertaking which acquires equipment and an intangible long-term asset on the basis of a financial lease shall also have the right to enforce that relief. In order to enforce the relief, the taxable person must fulfil the conditions of employment, i.e. he must employ one full-time worker for the entire tax period. It may also be applied by an employee who has not employed a full-time worker for the whole tax period if, in the year for which he claims an investment benefit, he employs at least one full-time worker at least three months before the end of the tax year and he remains employed for at least one year after the year for which he applies an investment benefit. There is also a provision of conduct where the debtor withdraws equipment or intangible long-term assets within a certain period of time after taking advantage of the tax relief and conduct in the event that the employee did not have an employee in accordance with the law. A similar relief as for investment in activity income was also established for investment in income from basic agricultural and forestry activities in the farm household, amounting to 20% of investments, but not more than 10,000 euros in the first and 10,000 euros in the second year after the investment year, or not more than 20,000 euros in total. In the framework of the basic agricultural activity, recognition is also facilitated at the level of the tax base and it is therefore possible to apply any unused part within five years of the investment year. Recognized investments in relation to basic agricultural and forestry activities are limited only to equipment, agricultural machinery and fixed assets without land and facilities. Your Honor! Assessing the need for action during the financial crisis, an amendment to the Income Act was proposed in November to increase the R & D facilitation and to increase the investment facilitation and facilitate the conditions for the implementation of this relief in the work relating to employment conditions. It was proposed that the current investment relief in the form of a reduction in the tax base should be increased from 20% to 30% of the invested amount, without the absolute amount of the relief being established. So this is 10,000 plus 10,000 euros. It could be used up to the level of the tax base within five years of the investment year. It was also proposed that the conditions relating to the employment of workers should be deleted, the remaining conditions remained unchanged. A meaningful equal solution was proposed for investment in the framework of income from basic agricultural and forestry activities within the framework of the farm household. The government considers that the content of the proposal for the new Income Act, which you are considering today, was in line with the measures taken to mitigate the financial crisis. In this context, the Government estimates that increasing the volume of investment incentives can contribute to the objectives pursued [[...]] [[a warning sign for the end of the debate.]] for basic agri-agricultural activities and facilitates the conditions for its application, while we believe that the benefits for investment in science and the development of such an effect will not be achieved since they were not used in practice last year. [[...]] It's obviously smaller companies that don't invest much here. Total impact estimated at €50 million [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u27	Minister, if you'd like to finish the presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u28	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I'm giving the vice president a word. Rejoicing Zerjav to present the report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At its 5th urgent meeting today, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending the Income Act submitted by the Government to the Assembly for consideration by means of a proposal for its consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure. Representatives and representatives of the proposed law, namely the Ministry of Finance, the Legal and Legal Services and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, attended the meetings of the Committee. The amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS, as of 1st and 2nd paragraphs, within the time limit presented. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined that proposal in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. With regard to the proposed text of legislative amendments, the Legislative and Legal Service has no other comments than a reminder to consider the justification for the harmonisation of the provisions of Article 73a, paragraph 3, of the draft law. The Committee was given an opinion by the Government, which was adopted by the Government at its 5th regular session on 18.12.2008, on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax and on the proposal for a law amending the Law on Income. This opinion defined the Government to the above-mentioned legislative proposals put into the legislative procedure by the Government in its previous composition. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the Minister of Finance stressed that the proposed law had been drafted by the government in its previous composition and that the government in its current composition had examined it and found that it would otherwise have negative effects on the state budget of EUR 50 million in order to produce certain social effects. From this point of view, the Government has decided to support it in the work relating to the enforcement of a general investment relief for a particular segment of the economy, as it considers that this part of the economy would make it easier to go through a financial crisis. The government has therefore included it in the framework of measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the Legislative and Legal Service does not have any comments on the draft law, since in its opinion it only raises the question of Article 3. Nor does the Legal and Legislative Service have any comments on the amendments tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. The members of the Committee and the others were present in the course of the discussion of the individual articles mainly discussed the provisions of Article 1 and the proposed amendment to the proposed amendment of the coalition groups. Representatives of the opposition opposed the amendment of the coalition's sent groups because they did not agree to delete Article 1. Article 1 deletes the current coalition from a certain segment of the economy to give an inappropriate signal. The coalition advocated the deletion of Article 1 because they stressed that the Government does not have much room for manoeuvre in the current crisis situation. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled by the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS by Article 1 and 2. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u32	Dear President! On 7 November, the government of Janez Janša forwarded to Parliament a package of two laws, which are complementary and whose ambition is to settle the same matter. Unfortunately, we have only one of these on the table today, and therefore this treatment is somewhat flawed. It is defective, since this Act, the Income Act, covers only one segment of economic operators, independent entrepreneurs who are taxable and not covered by economic operators. So consciously we are now separating between, for example, a self-employed enterprise with one employee who has roofing or has metal processing and an economic company, d.o.o., who has the same one employee and is engaged in exactly the same activity, but since the other is a status form, the first investment facility will be counted, but the second, which is d.o.o., does not. And I don't think that's right, and that's something that needs to be said in the introduction to this law. So it works for all economic operators and I don't know how they're going to watch, for example, the members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, of which 20% is the d.o.o. or d.o.o. and companies and the remaining 80% is the s.p.o.s. Some will have tax reliefs, others will not have tax reliefs. And one of these tax reliefs will be counted already in 2008, and others will not be counted. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's right that the Government has made a mistake here and that, unfortunately, today we don't have the Law on the Income Tax, which was proposed at the same time 7. 11. The government has taken a negative view that this is not the first defect in this treatment, which I do not know concrete arguments about. The second is that this law was with the other one, which is called the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons submitted to Parliament on 7 November. From then until a few days ago, the College of Parliament has not identified itself until the procedure surrounding this law and thereby procedurally rejects its treatment. We could've dealt with him. Why is that important? This is important because this law aims already at 2008 and must be adopted this year as well as those others, and this was actually one manoeuvre, which I think was of a tactical nature and wanted to clear up Parliament's debate on this very important topic. So the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, supports the basic intent of this law. I think it's real, but it's not enough. In particular, it is not sufficient because the coalition majority has eliminated the increase in tax reliefs for the research and development of independent entrepreneurs, even though they have not been used much in the past and are therefore unnecessary - an increase in these. We believe that there is a need to increase tax incentives for the research and development of independent entrepreneurs, that this is in the context of the Lisbon Strategy, in the context of the efforts of all governments, this is to increase investment in research and development of economic operators and that this could be done through this measure. And I do not understand the substantive reasons why the amendment was adopted by most coalition parties, or all coalition parties, who were actually prepared at the Ministry, as the Minister himself said, and prevented the rise in tax reliefs for research and development. The other solutions to the law are identical to those proposed by the previous government and are therefore acceptable to us and we will gladly support them. We have tabled an amendment giving Parliament another opportunity to consider increasing tax relief for research and development. I would also like to draw attention to the financial consequences of this law. When the previous government drafted this law and submitted it to Parliament, other Umar’s predictions were in force. As you know, the latest macroeconomic data, both statistics and Umarja, are being taken into account and, according to those that were significantly more optimistic, such high financial implications have been assessed. Believe me, the projected economic growth, including the decline in investment, will also very much weaken the case if all economic operators decide to implement these tax incentives. Thus, even if this is fully accomplished, the financial consequences of this law will be significantly lower. And that is again, as I would say, one comment on these comments of yours, how much is given to the economy, and in fact it is, unfortunately, much less. Well, we'll support the marriage and so will the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. In the parliamentary group, we will be proposing a law on amendments and additions to the Income Support Act. This law has a strong social note, and in the true sense of the word means'milding the negative consequences of the financial crisis'. Of course, it should be accepted this year or 2008 if not, another issue of the negative effects of this law on the state budget or the parallelity of the adoption of the balance should be raised, as would be the case with others, but not with the measures currently in place. It must be stressed here that this is a strong social note and therefore we support the rapid procedure and the adoption of this law. Of course, we also supported the amendment that had drawn Article 1 of the Law for this reason, because if Article 1 of the Law had been adopted, there would have been a difference between the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called. We believe that this needs to be regulated equally in the next package, within the framework of the legal framework, just as it is in accordance with our laws and the Constitution. Once again: we will support the law and we have also supported the amendment to delete Article 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u36	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. The proposal for an income novel was introduced into the legislative procedure as early as November as a rapid response to the general financial crisis. In order to mitigate at least a little the consequences of this crisis, which is felt by citizens and citizens of Slovenia, the drafter of the text of the novel measures to slow down economic growth, to increase the liquidity of the economy, to reduce labour costs and to integrate the quality development of the economy into the Income Act. In particular, it proposes to amend the level of relief in the field of business income, to increase investment in research and development and to amend and increase investment incentives and to propose a change in the level of relief in the area of income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities by increasing the investment facilitation. Tax reliefs and other benefits have now been amended for the previous government, even in the summer, an unacceptable proposal. In the sense that the investment relief would be determined at all, the Government then in June 2008 only drafted a new law on income two in terms of the introduction of an investment relief, which was also adopted in June 2008 and that it would be determined as a percentage of the investment, so that it would be equally important for small companies and large companies. When she was leaving, she suggested the latter: the investment relief is now designed to measure micro-enterprises and small-scale enterprises - a maximum of EUR 10 000 per year and a maximum of EUR 20 000 in two years. The latter would make it particularly interesting for medium and large companies, on which the Slovenian economy is also founded: for example Krka, Sava, Gorenje, Luka Koper. We do not, in principle, oppose such an amendment by DeSUS Members. However, we have concerns about the abolition of the additional requirement for the application of investment relief, namely the employment condition. Of course, the legislation in force provides that the employee must have at least one full-time employee and that the amendment abolishes it. Otherwise, the applicant estimates that such a change will have a positive impact on employment and development and does not give concrete arguments as to why it considers that this abolition of the employment condition would have a positive impact on employment. Members of the DeSUS see the positive effect only in that this relief will also be accessible to self-employed people, but we do not see any positive effects on employment in general or on the reduction of unemployment. We also consider that it would be more appropriate to approach this sector more comprehensively in terms of the development of this area and the promotion of certain sectors of the sector in the field of farming and not just to define benefits in general, such as the provision of eco-agricultural incentives for beekeepers who have been almost always played. The lack of the novel is also seen in the absence of tax advantages for natural persons. The financial and economic crisis will not be limited to entrepreneurs, farmers, legal persons, but will also be felt by natural persons. Moreover, even this time directly at the impact of a single individual, as the suspension of the employment condition in the enforcement of investment relief, both under the proposal of the amendment to the Income Act, two but not according to the proposal of the new Income Act, two do not approach the additional impact on the greater chances of maintaining employment. Therefore, in our view, it would also be necessary to approach this issue. Although our DeSUS Group does not oppose individual substantive solutions, we will support the proposal of the Income Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text shall be given by the winner, Jelinčič, to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! Today's proposal for a law amending the Income Act has indeed been tabled in November, and it is high time to adopt it. In fact, I don't know what a revolutionary thing is, but it does regulate certain things in a certain segment. Although I feel that maybe everything we have heard from the preface, we really cannot put into one marriage and we will have to do something else. But this is what we expect from the coalition to do what we have heard from the forerunner that we still need to fix. The fact is that the Government is proposing the abolition of employment conditions, which is fine, but what control mechanisms will be the control mechanisms, who will control whether what is really happening is required and regulated by law, or whether the legal provisions for what private benefits are not being misused again. In the basic proposal for the law, the Finance Committee also proposed deleting Article 1. This actually destroys what was the main point of the law, so I think it makes sense to support the amendment tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, where that Article 1 is being returned to the law. Otherwise, marriage will be only to some extent relevant and effective. If more or less things were to be missed where general incentives for investing in research and development were to be applied, at 40% of the amount, I think that would be very bad. After all, the public financial deficit under this law is no more than €50 million, but it can bring certain benefits, because this is where Slovenia is most lagging behind. We have not invested practically anything in research and development. Then, instead of investing further, money, which was also due to some innovative intervention, divided itself into profits. And, of course, given that the most eligible owners and managers were the beneficiaries of the profits, they were the only ones who actually benefited from them. Therefore, I believe that it is necessary to support the law in itself and, of course, also the amendment to Article 1 and the Slovenian National Party will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposal we have before us was prepared by the previous Government. We think he should have been on the agenda a long time ago. The aim of the bill was to encourage the development of entrepreneurship, including agriculture, through tax incentives for investment. In the SLS Group, we agree that it would be necessary to increase tax reliefs for investment immediately so that positive effects on employment and development can be achieved. We regret that the coalition parties on the parental committee have proposed an amendment that deleted the first, i.e. an essential article of the bill. So the law lost its true meaning. I do not understand exactly why, no amendment has been proposed by coalition parties to determine an investment relief of 30%, as the Government has itself promised during its actions. However, we are pleased or feel that it is important that in this proposal of the law there remain investment facilities for investing in basic agricultural and forestry activities. In the SLS Group, we believe that investment relief is needed. If investments stop, a large part of the economy, especially construction, will be out of work, which again results in lower demand. There is an urgent need to ensure that investments continue both in companies and in the country. The proposal also highlighted the regional note. Let me remind you here of the joint investments of the state and local communities that would thus preserve employment and prevent the decline of domestic demand. This is about promoting public expenditure. We believe that it is necessary to go to expenditure that is quickly realistic and regionally dispersed, to bind to local infrastructure and that the benefits of it will not immediately flow abroad. This is a series of eco-communal projects with about 50% of European money. In this regard, we propose that local communities be increased or subordinated to allow for higher debt. We also believe that tax relief should not be limited to development, as this will be insufficient. However, they need to be limited in time to the fact that plans are being implemented now and not at any time. We have already had investment concessions in agriculture years ago, but today they have stopped them from making use of European funds for this. Therefore, there is no longer any interest in agriculture and, above all, such arrangements are in force to facilitate recognition only for the purchase of machines which are, of course, exported, but not for the purchase of land. And because I'm already in agriculture. We must be aware that in the last year the situation of agriculture has deteriorated enormously because, for example, artificial fertilisers, protective products have also increased by more than 100% and there is no agricultural sector that would cover these costs, including subsidies whose taxation we consider to be unfounded. And there's something else I should point out in this place. Why is there no Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the so-called Economic and Social Council? Did you see that besides agriculture, there is a minister for the entire food processing industry and forestry? It has been demonstrated that the income in agriculture will decrease by 10% in the following year, increasing the costs of falling purchase prices on global markets. And that needs to be solved with common sense. Is the crisis just for one part of people, for large businesses and banks, or is it a crisis for all of us? Agriculture will simply go bankrupt. There is now the biggest disaster, so farmers have begun to abandon agri-technical measures, do not buy appropriate material, do not fertilise properly, do not use certain technologies and quality, and production will continue to fall. And now that we're in Slovenia, we're already halfway through self-sustainment, as far as food is concerned. A good month ago, the Italian Minister of Agriculture publicly stated that he saw a solution to the crisis in Italy's increased self-sustainment. In the SLS Group, we will support the proposed law amending the Income Act. Moreover, we would prefer to support the Income Act in the basic version, with investment incentives for all companies, and we will therefore support the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President. Let's say good-bye again to everyone! Without investment and development there is no progress, we are also aware of this in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, which is why we support this amendment of the Income Act. Especially because even the reader of our programme, the programme of the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, sees that we have stated in a visible place that we are under the item on improving the competitiveness of the economy in the programme that investment and facilitation funds need to be increased. In the serious times ahead, surely no other thing is as important as investing in R & D, both to independent entrepreneurs and to self-employed people. And to those who say that 50 million euros or 0.13% of gross social product is negligible or small money, I must say that we do not think that way in our group. All the resources, all the efforts and all the efforts that can be made to achieve this objective are essential. It was certainly also a reflection and a dilemma on how to increase funds for other companies. Following assurances from the ministries, this will also happen in a package of measures to follow up on this. However, it is certainly time for each such debate to consider whether we are investing in technology and science in the right way. Today you can read in Finance that the ratio between the input of technology and science in some European countries is around 2:1, and we are certainly recorders in this part of Europe, because for science, on average, we devote nine times as much to technology. This means that we spend a lot of money on some academic level of development research rather than on specific cases and solutions. That's too much for scientists, too little for the economy. On the other hand, we have also examined in detail one analysis of the employees of the tax administration who have dealt with this for the past 10 or 15 years in this country and our small businesses and tradesmen who have already applied this tax relief, but have not found any significant positive correlations that those who have made more concessions to be more successful in terms of development or employment. I think this should be the case, and more resources and more attention should be given to this area in the future. My speaker certainly also mentioned two important groups on which we still agree at the LDS Club. On the one hand are local communities, municipalities. For example, one of Slovenia's companies, which is listed in the A quotation, had in the past an investment of EUR 50 million in development funds and investments of EUR 50 million in the year ahead, 2009 will have only EUR 15 million. €15 million is the amount of money invested in the development of many people today, not from larger municipalities in Slovenia. These are the funds that we invest in progress and development through the country, European cohesion funds and own funds, and, of course, we insist that local attention should also be paid here and in the years that still allow European and cohesion funds to be drawn up, on the one hand, or additional resources, and, of course, also allow municipalities to be specifically and solely in charge of these development projects. A similar story is true of agriculture. We are talking a lot about subsidising the employment of those who will work fewer hours a week, but at the same time I think it is necessary and important that this is the time to discuss what these people will actually do at a time when they do not work. I think that some of this energy should be directed to preserve the Slovenian countryside, so that we do not grow, to use alternative resources instead of driving oil from Saudi Arabia, which is currently cheaper to use the labour force to increase the production of biomass. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u44	Thank you very much again. Dear President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. This is another measure, one law that I believe will help the mass to come as little as possible from this crisis. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have, of course, carefully examined the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act. On the basis of the coalition commitment, the government has also adopted an increase in the aid for investments for craftsmen in line with public financial constraints. In an unfavourable economic situation, it is the self-employed who are the fastest to adapt to the emerging situation that makes it easy for craftsmen to signal clearly for the changed situation. Of course, the proposed reduction in tax rates from corporate income from 22% to 20% for 2008 would result in a higher tax drop for a certain proportion of taxpayers from the point of view of tax collection. This tax rate is particularly important for the processing industry and for financial and commercial activities. Reducing the tax rate of income tax compared to subsidisation of shorter working hours would not allow companies to provide fresh capital, which has recently been presented as the only solution to the financial crisis. At the time of the financial crisis, at the time of the recession, when many companies do not generate profits or create lower profits, the reduction of the tax rate on the income of legal persons means virtually nothing. As a result of this reduction in the tax rate, there is no appropriate measure to reduce the financial crisis. With regard to the proposal of the previous government, let us mention that both the Government and the Social Democrats' Group have thoroughly analysed the proposed changes and found that the reduction in the corporate income tax rate will not have a positive impact on economic growth, but the government has taken on the basis of a coalition commitment to increase the incentives for investments in line with fiscal constraints. Reducing investment incentives is appropriate for larger companies to promote economic growth in so-called normal situations when companies generate profits. At the time of the recession, and at the time of the financial crisis, businesses that do not generate profits and do not invest are said to have little meaning to them as well. For this reason, we are convinced that the investment relief is primarily intended for craftsmen who will have greater burden with the investment relief provided by the remaining government measures. Of course, we must also look at the social aspect that the Minister has already mentioned in this matter. However, when the situation allows for a different situation and if a second wave of measures is to be taken care of, the Minister announced today that the investment relief would also be introduced for the remaining companies in the country. In Social Democracy, we objected to the abolition of investment relief in the previous government, where tax reform by abolishing tax relief for corporate tax on corporate income increased the effective taxation of businesses and independent entrepreneurs in the Income Act, which led businesses and independent entrepreneurs to higher taxation for end-users. And this also helped to increase inflation. Nor does the European Commission recommend a reduction in corporate income taxes in its economic recovery plan. For this reason, we are convinced by the Social Democrats that the Income Law will help craftsmen and, of course, we also support the Income Act in the proposed content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. I'm asking you to sign up. Mr Andrej Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u46	Thank you very much. This amendment is a result of the amendment adopted by the Committee, which deleted Article 1, the main purpose of which is to increase tax incentives for the investment, research and development of independent entrepreneurs, or all taxpayers, from 20% to 40%, in those less developed areas where this so-called regional component is also 30 to 50 and from 40 to 60. We estimate that this step is twice as important. For the first time, it is important that a segment of the economy, which, due to its structure and not least to its human resources constraints, lacks some of its own potential for the development of research activities, and that everything it orders, not least outside the knowledge institutions, is also considered as a tax relief. For example, an independent entrepreneur who works in an area and wants to develop some new machine or some new material, some new product, can be used by different institutes, colleges, including experts, and all these costs can be used as a relief through this relief. That is why we thought that, at the moment, especially when we are facing problems of lack of development resources, in particular the lack of development resources from the real sector economy, it is reasonable and good to increase these tax reliefs, especially due to negligible fiscal effects. The Minister and others have said that this does not actually affect the budget and has not so far had a significant impact on the budget. From this first specific mission of this amendment, it follows why we think it would be wise to introduce it in order to increase these tax incentives for research and development. The second is what is also, in some ways, a general fact. This is that the Slovenian economy is behind this small economy, but all too little is recognised in development and research by some long-term perspective and is being used too little. I don't think it would be a mistake to think that anything they invest in R & D would be a tax relief at all for independent entrepreneurs. Everything. And that is why, Mr President, because you mentioned that you agree with this, I am very pleased that this amendment is accepted and upgraded in the third reading with this direction. That's what it means in a direction that's all it is. Invest in research and development, tax relief. However, the government went in the opposite direction to delete the article in which we wanted to increase these tax reliefs for research and development. I think that this is a misvisa of content and visa messages to economic operators that even those development research programmes, which are very rarely present in this segment of the economy, will be the first to, as I would say, write-off lists in these times of crisis. And that's not right! Your Honor, this is not right. That is why, of course, we propose this amendment and are ready to cut even deeper into it. The second thing that has been said is also true. From the structure of expenditure on science, research, technology is more than clear that 90% of money is distributed through one development and research agency and 10% of money is distributed through one technology agency when we talk about development research projects for the economy. However, when we also warned the new government that it would still be possible to do so in order to be wise to separate and have an agency for development research under one Ministry, the Ministry of Economics, and another agency under the Ministry of Economics, it was a technology agency, of course it was not. That wasn't there. And believe me, within the scientific sphere, within the research sphere, there will be eternal conflict between these agencies, and the lobbying, research lobbying, scientific lobbying, which we know of, of course, themselves and their actors will choose an ever-increasing piece of cake, rather than for those projects that are intended for the economy, which is a major challenge for the academic sphere. Believe me, for the development research staff at the institutes it is to work with the economy, in general, much harder, much harder, much more challenging, than to write two professional articles in a third-grade magazine that counts one way or another. But for a long time, our academic sphere has not produced any respectable professional articles. Your Honor! This opens up an area that is very practical in nature and at the same time a message of great importance, so I would like to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I don't think anyone has the basic purpose of somehow reducing funding for research and development. Above all, when we talk about the long term, it is said that it has special effects on the economy. We all know that special investment in technological development and research primarily means better economic growth, faster development and so on. The government will do more than you suggest. And I believe you'll support that, too. Many direct measures are envisaged, which could have happened in the past, it is said that research and development would have been encouraged and that policy would have given once more weight to this, there is more support. You probably know that for investment in technological equipment, a €18.7 million tender is under way at this time, and because of the very high demand for technological equipment subsidies, a new €35 million tender will be published when the possibility of obtaining funds is also open for operational capital and development. Moreover, the conditions and criteria for the allocation of funds will be adapted to the current market situation. We all know that there is a high priority for the development of key competitive capacities and it is important that we stress the issue of investment in research and development in particular. The 50 million euro call for business development projects currently in the completion phase will also add a new €50 million call for company development and investment projects. The analysis of the current situation, ladies and gentlemen, shows a greater need for development funds and not just a limitation on a smaller target group, so more groups in companies will receive support, especially with development potential. At this point, we are not talking in any way about the reduction of these funds in R & D, we are saying that this is of long-term importance to us, that more funding is needed for this, and we will be happy that companies will use it and that we will, of course, give them a lot of support in doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm opening an application for discussion. Please. Mr Franz Pukšič took the floor. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. Government representatives. I also expected at today's meeting a little more ambition on the part of the Government to reach out and prepare more serious proposals for amendments to certain legislation, if it is true that there is as severe an economic crisis as is spoken and written. On the other hand, such measures do not really help a person to see. While I am sorry that the Government is in charge of the tax procedure law, although we are now at point B1 of the Income Act, and that there will be no misunderstanding, the amendment prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party will be supported. I think it's good and it's going this way, as the Prime Minister of the Government has announced that it doesn't matter where the crisis resolution proposals come from, it's important that they're good, and then the government will accept them. I think it would be good to accept this amendment. However, given that the problem is broad and that we also have an open tax procedure law, I am very sorry that the Government has not seen the tax procedure law in order to amend the so-called regulation in Article 102 of the Tax Procedure Act, a regulation where the conditions for deferral of tax are so laid down that it is actually impossible. I am even more sorry, despite several warnings from different sides, but also from the operatives, this has often shown that the Government does not make the so-called settlement in the tax procedure law, despite all the techniques that Durs has at his disposal. On the one hand, the entrepreneur has a refund credit and, on the other hand, the next month, for example, for payment, and of course because of the liquidity problems that arise in the company, which has to rent credit because in 60 days he will be paid the overpaid tax that he has to pay in 30 days. If you could take care of yourself, given the technique that's been done, it would be easier for everyone, big and small businesses. It is high time, I hope, that the Government will come as soon as possible with changes to legislation as has already been said here today, the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons as with some others, such as the Tax Procedure Act, for example, Article 68, and Article 69, which, unfortunately, no one is implementing and then amending the Law on paid realization. As you know, only a tax ruling, VAT, applies to those who have more than €208,000 in transport. This is a few of these minor changes that would come to everyone, especially to the small and medium-sized enterprises we have the most, and to the areas from which I come, where it will be necessary to be particularly sensitive. If nothing else, then at least I suggest that by the system, which is good, we support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Good-bye! When I first saw the proposals of the laws of the three opposition parties, I was pleasant on the one hand and, on the other, a little less pleasantly surprised. In reducing taxes, this general discussion is always present, at which point it is advisable to lower a certain tax rate in order to ultimately help the economy in the long term and consequently also tax revenues. I was surprised at the proposal to reduce the corporate income tax because in the fight against the financial crisis, the financial and economic crisis, I did not see a direct effect, and I asked myself, after all, whether the applicants here do not know what they want to achieve by doing so, because if you reduce the income tax, I would encourage only saving but not additional consumption, or maybe they know what they want to do with it, which is even more worrying, because we finance or reward eventually those tukunas who should fight so much. With regard to the amendment that seeks to increase investment in research development, I have listened with joy and interest to the analysis and proposals of the Government, I agree with them, but at the same time I am so confident, I am finally coming from an entrepreneurial environment, to research and development to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Of course, there are several different approaches to promoting research and development. Not only this, but also elementary projects, for example, in terms of technological modernisation and the like in the economy. It is the principle that this is done through tax laws, tax reliefs, but it is also the principle that this is done more purposefully, through calls and the selection of those who meet certain criteria. In times when these investments are not lacking or when it is actually perceived as an increased, even accelerated investment activity of the economy in fixed assets, equipment and the like, it is indeed essential to implement targeted measures more effectively, that is to say, measures supported by the most pro-pulsive, most striking developmental projects of all segments of the economy, of course through various measures. However, when we read the forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development that next year there will be 2% less investment in equipment than this year, it is said that there will be a negative growth in investment in equipment and that there will be a question of sensefulness and additional measures. And here's the basic difference. On the one hand, the current Government is now proposing this second part, which is said to target and support specific projects through calls. I'm glad to hear that there will be more resources for this than ever before. And thank you very much, by the way, for the positive assessment of the existing tenders. However, there is one problem with these calls. This is that an economic operator who knows that he will get the money will only find out in six months, rather than because it is impossible. If you're going to increase funds, which is commendable, for these purposes, you're probably going to have to do so with some balance of budget that we're going to face here, I don't know when. This will be the basis for the invitation to tender. And until you've prepared it - I've been doing it myself, and I know about how long it takes not to talk about coordination - then the election process will be about six months later, and there will be some decision on allocation. And today, when the economic operator needs a message, whether its project is supported or not, it will not know, but it will find out in six months. And what's it gonna be at that time? During this time, he will adjust all his activities to this, be careful and not invest when we need it the most. The action that we propose will take place immediately. Don't let him take it right away, take it back. Any expenditure incurred by a taxable person for research and development during the current year will be able to be used as a relief. This will also increase the amount of money that he has used this year, not because of tax relief, but because he has an idea because he has a project because he has a vision. This should also be encouraged further. This is the basic intention of our proposals: to adopt measures that will take immediate action. And these actions will take place immediately. Perhaps I also agree with many that the best combination is both. Thus, increasing these funds through calls for concrete projects to specific companies and, of course, also to those measures that apply to all. I do not want to have one feeling that some are fighting so hard for these calls that they will be able to choose companies that will receive money. In fact, one round of privileged companies, as was ever possible, the analysis has shown this, and the widest part of the companies that will not be close to the members of the Commission will perhaps be slightly removed, irrespective of the quality of the programmes. Especially those entrepreneurs who have ever been exposed to this political side. That's why it's on the table. There are reliefs on the table. I don't know how you're going to defend that this applies to one part of the economic segment, to one part of the companies, i.e. to independent entrepreneurs, but it won't apply to d.o.o.-je, d.o.o.-J. Once again, please explain to me how to explain to one economic operator, one entrepreneur who will come to you, we will take care of it, how will you explain to him that one independent entrepreneur who is a roofer, for example, and buy a new ladder and has one employee and is an independent entrepreneur, can report this new ladder as a tax relief? The other roofer, his brother, or his neighbor, or I don't know who he is, but he's the same roofer, and he also has one employee, and he needs a ladder, and he bought it, and he won't be allowed to use this ladder as a tax relief. That's what you did. Through the income law, you put one in a different position than the other. That's not right. Simply put. And I said that on one banal case. How are you going to explain to good companies, like, I don't know, Instrumentation Technologies, that the equipment he invested would not be able to claim it as a tax relief, while one independent entrepreneur with, say, half the added value could claim it as a tax relief. It's simply an unfair, unthinkable thing to say. I would be happy to see a proposal from the government tomorrow following a rapid procedure or an urgent procedure for a similar solution for economic societies as well. Otherwise, there's this difference and I don't know how to justify it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u56	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I am sorry that today's debate at this point, which is still quite limited and relates to a very limited scale, 35 people took place last year, I will say, reinvesting such a facility for research and development. We can see from this that the government's analysis is that such a measure as you propose would not have a broader macroeconomic impact. The whole debate is also burdened by thinking somehow that the measures proposed by this government to address the financial and economic crisis are not sufficient. I would like to think, both here on this side of the hall and on the other side of the hall, that we will do everything in our power to protect the Slovenian economy and Slovenian people as much as possible from the negative effects of the crisis. I am convinced that the government, with the material it adopted on 18 December, has done just that. On the one hand, it has designed measures to reduce labour costs and maintain jobs, promote economic growth and competitiveness and liquidity of the economy, and measures to further develop the economy in a high-quality manner. Today, when we reject your amendment, we will not, in fact, say anything other than that you are, to a large extent, right. What needs to be done is to enable businesses to reinvest their R & D profits with tax incentives. This must be done with another act. And we can see that the current level of relief in this area is already appropriate. What doesn't read is a matter of procedure. And everything needs to be done to simplify procedures in this area. As far as other measures are concerned, let me say that the Government, in the framework of the measures it has put forward, has given very high attention to technological developments in the economy. My colleague Levanič had already discussed the scope of the tenders already under way or in preparation. Let me add that this is also a development investment project envisaged by the Government to develop the key competitiveness of companies, an investment of €50 million, which will be added to another €50 million call. Let us not forget the activities in the development of the venture capital market. With an investment of €35 million, venture capital also represents that arsenal of opportunities to provide better technological equipment for businesses on the one hand, on the other hand, to encourage research and development. There are many more of these measures. I am sure that with them the government will be able to better and more purposefully channel resources to make a pulsating part of the economy, to support the development of this part of the economy and to give a developmental boost on this side of the economic crisis. On the one hand, it seems to me that the measures that seek to stabilise the current economic situation and, on the other hand, to develop, we cannot see all the measures we have today from the materials we have before us, but I am confident that the measures proposed by the Government are leading to better opportunities for us together in Slovenia and to face this crisis successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u57	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I take it there's no desire to discuss it anymore. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided, in accordance with the revised meeting time frame, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the B.1. agenda item, this is 4:20 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u58	Colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! We're continuing our session. Proceed with interrupt A1. agenda item - Consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act, urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Please check your voting devices, which is the orange light on the right side of the card inserted. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Proceed with interrupt B1. item on the agenda - Consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Income Act, urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled to Article 1 of the SDS Group. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr Andrej Vizjak, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u59	A respected choir! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not take a decision not to increase tax relief for research and development in a specific part of the economy, to independent entrepreneurs. As we have heard, there is, in fact, a reason why they have not served much so far. I must say that for this segment, this tax relief is in force some year or two and that the main message is still ahead of us, and not least the main use of this. In times when we want some to take advantage of the crisis as an opportunity as a challenge, it is very important to enable and at the same time to communicate to this segment of the economy that it has the sense to invest and that the country is in some way involved in this investment through the application of tax relief. We have proposed that tax reliefs increase from 20% to 40% and in less developed parts of Slovenia more, it is said, up to 60%. We estimate that this is also a measure that fills the gap, namely that the real sector, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, are under-investment in R & D. For a small economy, for small businesses in particular, this segment opens up the possibility that certain studies, research or experimental development can be ordered through the so-called "outsourcing" and this can be applied as a relief, which can make a very important contribution to competitive upgrades, not least of all developmental orientations. The only thing that is the current coalition and government, as we have heard, has proposed that this be deleted from the income law. That's not good. That's bad. The messages are also inappropriate to this segment of the economy and we therefore propose such an amendment and, of course, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will also support it. We believe that of these relatively projected fire-fighting measures, short-term fire-fighting measures, short-term measures also need to be taken, which are development-oriented, which give oxygen and will to development-oriented companies, to those who are looking any year or two further.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Explanation on its own behalf. I am opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf and I ask that all those who wish to explain their voice do so now. Please. The word is Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. I will certainly support the amendment of our SDS Group. I am also convinced by the quote from the debate this year, when the entire opposition started shouting and screaming around inflation. At that time, it was explicitly stated by the SD MP, and I quote: "It would be possible to provide incentives for investment, for development, for science. Greater investment in research, development and technology would be necessary." And then he said, "the whole Chinese economy invests more than 1%" and he also referred to Japanese, which is certainly a good example, because those you know know, you know that the Japanese always use tax incentives and other ways to increase investment in knowledge and development during the crisis. That is the essence of our amendment. I regret that the greater courage of those who were still in the spring, just a few months ago, claimed otherwise, is now apparently gone. Because now it would be necessary, now it is about keeping this development going. There is now a need for greater relief, and greater investment is now needed. From this point of view, I must say that I am surprised by the silence which is now on the side of the SD, and that Mr. Feri Horvat, who once led the competent committee, is no longer among us, would be nice if at least the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Klun, identified himself to such a proposal, which is certainly in the interest of the Slovenian economy. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u62	Mr Member, just an explanation of vote, there is no more time to debate, there is no more debate [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u63	As I say, I will, of course, vote for the amendment myself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u64	Thank you very much. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. I have made it very clear that I have opened up a room to explain my voice. Procedural, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Article 72 of the Rules of Procedure is quite clear in the second paragraph. The Member shall have the right to explain his vote before the final vote on the proposal for a decision. Its opposition may take up to two minutes and there are no restrictions on the number of debaters, the number of explanatory rounds or anything like that. I propose that you accept these explanations of vote as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u66	Dear Mr. Tanko! I have not violated the rights of Members and Members in any way to explain my vote. Because I have also made this clear that I am opening the debate and asking everyone who would like to explain their voice to do so when I opened the debate. Despite everything that you will not say that I am in violation of the possibility that you have previously taken away from yourself, because you have not applied, I will launch another application so that all those who wish to discuss or explain their voice will do so now. I'm opening a list to report an explanation to the voice. Mr. Jože Tanko, explanation of voice in his own name. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u67	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment mainly because it gives each entrepreneur the opportunity to solve his own problem. I think the measures you're talking about and talking about, like the different calls, are good. However, these are all measures with a delay, with all the complications that you are experiencing. It's called the appointment of committees, complaints and everything. And finally, in such a filter way, we can come up with measures that are extremely selected in other ways. I think it is the best solution to give entrepreneurs the opportunity, in particular to all those with alternatives, to make use of these incentives themselves as soon as possible for investment investments, to restructure themselves adequately on the technological side and to find their own solutions. I think that starting to think that the country is the only one and those Commissions that the Government will appoint, which can decide which are the right directions of development and facilitation, I do not think such measures and incentives are the most appropriate. It is best that we let the economy just find its way out of the crisis. And this amendment with these facilitations, which are very general, principled, leads in this direction. Everything else means regulation, it means closure, it means restrictions and, above all, it can, we are already used to it in this mandate or, above all, in this mandate, very political decision-making, by the face and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u68	Thank you very much. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the law in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendments have not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. I'm opening an application to explain my voice. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the draft amendments to the law, despite the fact that an important amendment has not been put to the vote, and also given that this amendment has fallen, the basic intention of the law proposed by the previous government to deal with this Parliament has been reduced. I would point out once again the important negative effect that we will cause to the Slovenian economy or at least to its work, namely that we have not yet complemented this law by amending the law from the income of legal persons, from the income of legal persons, which would have introduced tax incentives for all economic operators to invest in equipment, which was a basic intention. We will support the law, despite the fact that it will introduce distinctions and different rights of economic operators, which are only different according to their status, according to their structure, but can be completely the same after their activities. This seems to me to be the biggest flaw in this proposed measure. However, we will at least partially fulfil what I think is an opportunity in a given situation when we are increasingly facing the consequences of the crisis. I think we are facing a worse confrontation only next month, and therefore I would be happy to hear some argument from the opposition's proposals in parliament. I have not heard any argument today why tax relief for S.P. is, but why not for capital companies. I didn't hear the argument. This, of course, is an irreparable mistake that will somehow mark the future. In my opinion, it is at least partly the idea of some independent entrepreneurs, some companies being able to use the crisis as a challenge and an opportunity for further development, to upgrade their competitiveness and possibly also to consider further activities and further plans, which is why we will support this. At least something better than nothing. Therefore, this measure is identified as a measure in the right direction and is not considered a sufficient measure at the same time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I am opening a list to discuss the explanation of vote on my own behalf. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u71	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Your Honor! I will uphold the law because the intention of marriage is going in the right direction. The measures to be implemented are also going in the right direction. But it bothers me that we made the selection. One part of the economy will be facilitated and the other part of the economy will not. I don't know if such a distinction holds judgment in the Constitutional Court, but that's another story now. Because it's basically just that you can get relief from the status of an entity or you can benefit from relief or not. So the real capital company doesn't, s.p. Well, yeah. Only because of the status. You can have exactly the same activity, the exact same number of employees, you can have the same income, the same profit, but because you have different status, you're not getting it. I think it's as if there was a fire in the street, and the firefighters would come to me and not the neighbor, because he has another house number. It doesn't make sense, and that's what bothers me. It's true that, say, half the street could be saved by firefighters, we could put out a fire, but half the streets could not. Half would be solved, and the same is true now in this case. Part of the economy will be able to benefit from these measures taken by the Government and, as I said, they are good, they are going in the right direction, but this distinction is incomprehensible to me. I'll support the marriage, but with a bitter taste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u73	Thank you. I will support the law myself, even though I personally would like to remain that way, it was originally proposed. Once again, I stress that the promotion of investments, in particular those most productive in knowledge and development, is certainly in the interest of the Slovenian economy, and I regret that the coalition has not gathered enough courage to support the proposed law in this work as well. What's most eloquent of all is the silence, the silence that has fallen from the other side, from the coalition, and I can see why. Because pre-election promises will have to be paid [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u74	Grimes, we agreed that the explanation for the vote was just an explanation for the vote. So, what you're going to vote for, or against, whatever you decide, there's no room for controversy anymore. The controversy was, if you wanted to have it before that, in dealing with this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u75	Mr President, we had this debate in the previous mandate, at the request of your Members, and at that time, two were identified on the business committee, in particular by Mr Anderlic and others, when you were together; whatever you say as an explanation, it is permissible and, of course, the chairman must not in any case limit the application circles. If you doubt these words of mine, look at the literal record. I myself will, because it is in the interest of the Slovenian economy, Mr President, I will certainly support such a law. I am sorry that you did not have the courage to accept the basic text, which was even more in the interest of the sustainable quality development of our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I'm opening a new circle to explain my voice. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. This marriage, which I will of course support, is better than nothing. Here, I stress, it is really better than nothing, because the real effect of this law will certainly not be achieved. If anyone has read, even in the newspaper Finance, it has been clear that these measures that we are now taking are, in fact, aspirin for significantly worse diseases that our economy will, of course, also face. Therefore, I really regret that there was no hearing that the original law, which was well-intentioned, was not in the interest of our small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which is most flexible, in fact the most vulnerable, most sensitive to these changes, which will only take place in Slovenia in the coming weeks. Only now could this thing, in some way, be cured in order to give them motivation and courage so that they can make the right decision. Nevertheless, this law is likely to contribute something to this, but, of course, it will not have the right effect. What is more, at the next point here, we will explain and argue that the solution we are taking today is not optimal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The word is Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I'd be happy to support the marriage. It's tiny, but it's definitely the right step in the right direction. You probably wanted to hear some more answers about what the next measures would be, which would also affect the area of companies. There are certainly some of them, and some of them are coming, and these problems will be fully solved. But I'm sorry, it's just for these reliefs that I fought as an opposition Member about three quarters of a year ago, but because the memory loss is a serious matter, I'm really sorry that you didn't take into account those arguments that were on our side the same as today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I am sorry that we have experienced a vote that is not necessary. The applicant gave a key reason for rejecting, probably, this amendment, which was very necessary and appropriate. On the other hand, I think that so far the Chamber of Commerce has had no problems, at least not in the previous term, when we were taking balanced measures to help the small economy. This law, now adopted without a twin, brings a certain problem to the Chamber of Commerce, for about 20% of the companies involved in the Chamber of Commerce are small d.o.o. And before we had a member of the National Assembly of the Chamber of Commerce, there was no problem with equality of treatment. Now that there is even a President of the Chamber of Commerce among us, there are decisions that are unbalanced, when one of the works of the Chamber of Commerce we allow certain measures and incentives, and the other part that has another form of organisation, we make this impossible. And I must say I'm surprised to have a Member coming out of line on this subject [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u82	That's the explanation for the voice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u83	I am also explaining this, and I must say, very surprised Mr President of the National Assembly, that you are so active in interrupting Members from our side. When you were a Member yourself, you never let anyone take a word from you. In short, I would suggest, and expectations are also justified that the measures we take as economic aid to help the small economy are balanced to cover both structures, both forms of organisation, and not in the way you have now, that is to say, only one part and one part is prevented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u84	Mr. Tanko, how will you vote? [[Ad in the background.]] Procedurally, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u85	Mr President, just maybe more information for you. In fact, when I spoke to Mr President of the Government right now, he wanted a word, and I warned him that he could not speak right now, and he said he would be at the next point. He wanted to point out exactly what I was talking about and you took my word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u86	If you're going to talk about what he was going to say, please, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u87	It was a question of finance, the expenditure side of the budget, and there is a core problem. And that's what I'm talking about, and you've reached into my word. The problem is expenditure, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u88	Mr Grimes, don't talk about what the Prime Minister was going to say, please. We're moving to the vote. We're voting on the law. There are 78 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Defence of proposals for conclusions in connection with "premature action by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to avoid and mitigate the negative effects of the world financial and economic crisis on the Slovenian economy". The draft conclusions were tabled by a group of Members and Members with Mr Jozet Tanke, the first to be signed. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mag. Mr Andre Visiak, for further explanation of the proposal for conclusions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u89	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Introductory. I'm very sorry that we kind of weirdly organized this session. Indeed, we have taken some action first, but we will now talk about a broader principled work, namely the need for timely action by the Government to mitigate the consequences of the crisis. Well, that's what you wanted, despite a procedural proposal that was not voted on and proposed on our part. However, we will try to make up for this in some way. Certainly, the financial and, consequently, economic crisis did not start in Slovenia and it is not due to the reasons or reasons on our side. Therefore, the effective response to this crisis is not that we are addressing the causes, because they are in fact different, but we must take timely and proper measures to mitigate the consequences it has, and even more so, that the crisis will have on our economy and population. The impact of the crisis must be multilayered. The failure of the interbank market and the high caution of financial institutions in lending to the economy result in the economy not receiving the necessary financial resources for the operation, not just for development. So, the trends that have taken place in the past year or in the first half of this year are turning. So some bold investment in the economy and development, one great activity has now ceased overnight. We all know that economic operators are dependent on financial resources from financial institutions and that there is some rapid interruption of these links as a kind of human heart attack. We are faced with this and a real wave of measures, which was already in cooperation between the current and previous governments, to revive the functioning of the interbank market, has been adopted, some, both as a guarantee and as a loan regulation. However, some signs of the recovery of the functioning of the interbank market and also of the downwards, of the credit activities of financial institutions towards the economy, are not, in fact, yet to a greater extent, and we still have the same measure or problem, despite some of the measures taken. There is much talk about the role of the Slovenian Export and Development Bank. However, it is worth stressing that it is not human resources, not some "know-how" equipped and, as I would say, subdued that it will effectively address these extraordinary, extremely demanding tasks and our victims in them as in some plant of salvation in this area. Thus, the economy is alarmingly short of funding sources, both development projects and, of course, operating capital, and therefore, of course, there is a decline in the developmental orientation of these companies. At the same time, payment non-discipline is being strengthened, as this lack of financial resources is, of course, moving from economic operators to all those with whom they are business-related to the suppliers of equipment to those who supply revolving assets and the like. In this way, I would like to say that, in practice, the impact of the measures taken is not yet apparent, and here we consider it to be more radical, and after my assessment of effective, measures by direct injection of the country to these financial institutions. We are expecting and we are finally recording some of the Government's proposals in this direction. As I stress, this is not yet seen in the real sector itself. From month to month, there are worse forecasts of the decline in export demand, which is mainly due to month after month of worse forecasts, including our most important foreign trade partners, for example Germany, and the result is, of course, some contractions in procurement and consequently in the operations of those up to the recent parade horses of the Slovenian economy, which were also the most pronounced exporters. It is, of course, important to stress here that of these very important large systems, the crisis is spreading to all levels of subcontractors or suppliers of equipment of these exporters and that the chain is much larger, not only one company on this segment is affected. We also note a relatively large decline in industrial production, a decrease in investment activity, both construction investments and investments in equipment and machinery. According to Umar's latest forecast, investments in machinery and equipment will be two percentage points next year or 2% less than this year. Here we record a negative index, and all the measures we have previously discussed are aimed at mitigating these consequences so that this does not happen. Of course, we also have clear signals about reducing domestic demand and calming private consumption growth. All of these, we believe, are alarming indicators and require swift, selective and ambitious action by the country. The State's measures must go in several directions. They must go in the direction of measures that allow restructuring to a certain segment of the economy, for perfectly objective reasons, to help, I don't know, companies that have gone into serious difficulties and cannot restructure themselves to help with certain levers and forms of state aid. We have also been monitoring and analysing the Government's actions and actions at this time, from the request to this day, and I can summarise the following conclusions. Measures to establish the functioning of the interbank market, namely the Public Finance Act and the Guarantee and Loan Regulation, are a step in the right direction. However, as I have already pointed out, I believe that measures such as the recapitalisation of the Slovenian export and development companies and similar measures related to the Slovenian Enterprise Fund will be necessary to continue, especially when we are talking about providing or providing liquid assets to companies. We also welcome the measures taken to strengthen confidence in the banking system, this is a complementary banking law and I see that this measure is one of the few that have been caught. That is, who achieved his own and was his purpose, as he would say, also proved in practice. Measures allowing companies who have lost their jobs and jobs for a short period of time to cope with the crisis, i.e. this so-called full-time subsidisation where part-time work will be introduced, I welcome these measures, are good measures, while at the same time we estimate that they are also insufficient according to our assessment. I do not know how such a measure will, for example, be applied in the case of an undertaking that has lost its job for a period of several months of a large, large undertaking. Its shortening of working time and resulting subsidisation of income mean something, but it does not mean enough in the context of survival. We also welcome measures to simplify and relieve the business activity proposed today and already adopted under the Tax Procedure Act. However, we are proposing some additional measures. I was very surprised and, in a way, disappointed by the Government's position on the Law on corporate income tax, where this position was negative and, as a result, today, at the Income Act, we have introduced tax exemptions for investing in equipment. However, we did not introduce the same solution for companies or for companies subject to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. We proposed, about three weeks ago, so that this proposal could be here today, reducing the country's payment deadlines to the economy. In fact, in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, the State has laid down, on a proposal from the Government, that all obligations or most obligations, in particular those of investment to suppliers or to those suppliers, are to be paid within 60 days. Today we do not have a bill on the table, I hope that we will get it in the future to shorten this deadline, for example, to 5, 10, 15 days. This is important for this supplier or for this partner to the country which is doing some work for the country, as well as for all subcontractors in the chain. And imagine when, I don't know, one construction company or even engineering firm builds a school, and an integral part of such construction is also craftsmanship and installation works and I don't know what else. And, of course, this supplier or subcontractor must do his work substantially as soon as possible, or that situation exposed to a specific contracting authority - the State. So the payment deadline for a subcontractor is significantly longer and is moving around for 120 days. It's a shame, Prime Minister, if we go for 30 days, that this proposal is not on the table today because we wrote such a law in the opposition in five minutes. And if presented today by emergency procedure, we would accept it today, because in one article it is necessary to replace the number 60 with thirty and the matter is done. And I told you the explanation, so there wouldn't be any work here either. Which means, that's good, I'm glad you'll suggest it, and that's the way to go. We are also proposing a shorter deadline or a faster return of overpaid VAT. In fact, if an economic operator has an overpaid value added tax, it may require the refund of the overpaid VAT after the accounting period of 60 days. I think that at a time when companies are fighting and dealing with the liquidity problem, it is very important that this return is as early as possible and also the tax profession is talking in favour of this proposal, because it is best to collect the tax and return it as soon as possible, if there are reasons for it. We also propose additional burdens on micro-enterprises in particular in the Income Act, which we have also tabled, where we propose to raise the taxable person's income limits and €25,000 per 100,000 to take into account the standard expenditure when determining the tax base of the next tax year. Thus, we are solving the scope of the 'Pavšalists' and thus also administratively burdening part of the economy and moving to some European projected level, and not least, the respected Prime Minister, it is written in your coalition contract, I am surprised that, of course, this action is not in this, as I would say, Christmas New Year's bag. However, a key reason for our concern and, last but not least, for the convening of this extraordinary meeting is the lack of government ambition and a lack of measures that would allow healthy businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, which can also be development agents in times of crisis, with development programmes and niche markets, and which can quickly restructure or adapt to new production and service programmes and to new market demands, so that such companies are able to invest in these new programmes, equipment and research and development. I see that you have deleted research and development and I would be very pleased to see that, despite the fact that I do not understand why this was not at today's meeting, so that, of course, we could address this gap and, in addition to the income solutions associated with investment incentives, we would also introduce it for companies. So in addition to investment incentives, we have proposed to introduce a lower tax rate for this year, by two percentage points. We wanted that part of the economy that creates profit that has profit, this profit in some way to enable this profit to be invested and that this segment to remove the negative consequences of the crisis that is coming. We have healthy companies with profits that can now get in trouble due to the failure of complete orders, which is due to the lack of export demand. And these companies could help with a few more oxygen already in 2008 to overcome this financial impact that some current situation will have. I believe that ministers of the current government are also receiving messages from the economic sector, from the example of how foreign suppliers or our suppliers in the moment cancelled orders, in a moment of huge series due to this and such a company, which until recently was a successful company, needs now financial space to survive. With these measures we have proposed, and I believe that, even with those you have proposed, we want to send a clear signal to the economy and provide it with funds for investment activity in the coming period, and thus also to create new quality jobs. I am convinced that tax reliefs in the largest economic operators can also lead to new programmes and to new jobs that can replace jobs that are permanently written off for such and other reasons as a result of this crisis. We are losing this opportunity, we are losing sight of going against companies with clear development programmes. These companies are something in Slovenia, enough in Slovenia. Developing companies need incentives and can make the country and the budget a significant burden on social transfer expenditure. If, through investments, someone provides a new job, there is no need to pay social contributions, they are paid by the employer and is a double plus. That is why, in my opinion, these investments have been wrongly assessed for such severe financial consequences, these investment reliefs. I am confident, Prime Minister, that you did not impose a tax relief on investments in company equipment due to financial consequences. I am convinced that this is the only reason, not the sense, or, as I would say, the developmental orientation of this measure, but merely the financial consequences. I am convinced that these measures, if invested in development by companies, can replace huge jobs in the medium term and can contribute to the budget in just as much as they could in a single fiscal year fall under the introduction of these tax incentives. I cannot therefore avoid the feeling and conclusion that the measures taken by the current government are more or less fire-fighting and are very social-oriented or, above all, social-minded. They are certainly not focused on the fact that the crisis can be a challenge and an opportunity for part of the Slovenian economy or the whole Slovenian economy. I believe we need a whole range of measures. We need those who have a social component, and we need those who have a development component. And here was mentioned what developmental component you're proposing. It was mentioned, we heard. And this is that you will increase the call for funds for research and technological development so that, on the basis of the calls for proposals, you will distribute this money across the various commissions to businesses. What is at present the basis for calls is in the budgets adopted and is probably already on the table. However, what will be added, as a result of these government measures, must first be confirmed through a budget change. That's what's gonna happen, procedurally speaking, a month, two, three. Because it runs through Parliament and so on. Then there'll be calls. Before that you will probably replace all the commissions and put in new people, then there will be calls, there are tendering deadlines, of course processing applications and there are conclusions and there are deadlines for complaints and we are there, somewhere, in the fall time. So, the first development-oriented measures, the first company to know about these developmental measures of yours, will get the decision in a month, say, if you work fast, very fast. But believe me, I have experience with this bureaucracy by the ministries, it'll be in the fall of next year. And I don't know if this is rapid and timely developmental action. I don't think so. I don't mind that these are measures, and they are medium-term. By no means are the urgent measures required today by a number of economic operators. I think that we must at least try to reverse the times of crisis in favour of that part of the economy, which also has the opportunity and opportunity to develop and break technology. We did it partially. I am happy and positively surprised, despite the views of many ministers at the hearings, that you supported the solutions in the Income Act. Good move and honest congratulations for her. Of course, happiness and satisfaction will be perfect when we experience the same for the second part, the second segment. In the past, I myself have been a proponent of targeted measures. This is true of measures that actually go through calls, but this is true of some normal times when we have a huge investment activity, when we actually listen to some of them that we have inflation due to this big investment activity and, of course, that is when we do it more targeted. But when we have as many sad indices as are now predicted, believe me, most of them in Umar think they are still very optimistic, and then they have to be cut down by more radical measures even if they cost something. Especially due to the fact that part of the funding can be replaced or replaced by excise policy and you have already begun to take the first measures here. Your Honor! Lisbon Strategy, Climate and Energy Package. These are the challenges that we and our members of the European Union have put ahead of our economy. These are development challenges. Now tell me, how can these relatively modestly ambitious measures be brought into line with these principled development guidelines? It's hard. I think, Prime Minister, that it would be necessary to take a more ambitious bite into this problem in order to be able to take new additional measures here as soon as possible. However, it pains me that there is very little chance that this case will be for companies as early as 2008. Now whether it is procedurally possible or not to propose such a law to introduce tax reliefs in 2009 for 2008, then I wonder what we are not doing today, what we are dealing with twice in fact, and what you are listening to all these things that probably would not be necessary. Of course, there is also a need for particular concern for companies that are or will be in difficulties which will be in difficulty under the definition of a law that regulates the possibility of helping firms in difficulty. But in such cases it is very difficult to take some general action. Here you can help from case to case. Because one big company that gets in trouble needs a completely different form of aid than another very similar company. That is why the law provides that there is a special commission here, a professional commission which, on the basis of a restructuring programme, assesses what that healthy core is in the company and, finally, with subsidies and other forms of state aid, helps to finance this restructuring extermination of this healthy core. But it also helps those who lose their jobs, I don't know, replacing their retirement or retraining them or whatever, so help them. Normally, even for these companies, it is necessary to have measures. I'm worried, I hope you don't hold yours anymore, I'd say, the thesis is that you'll only help development-oriented companies, but not those in trouble. Of course, there is one cross with these companies in difficulty, namely, that a large majority of them have already received aid to solve businesses in difficulty and that, according to the logic of the European Commission, they must no longer receive them within 10 years of receiving. However, I think that the time of this crisis has now come, that some companies may also, despite the exemplary implementation of the restructuring programme, be in trouble again, and I think it is necessary to open up with the European Commission here, in order to allow explicitly new state aid in such cases, if the situation is the result of this crisis. However, I am certainly not in favour of this crisis being a dead end for some who have not implemented restructuring programmes to receive new state aid. Once again, however, these cases are made from case to case, they are being treated selectively and, therefore, the seeds of weed are being removed quickly, even in these roles, and these applicants are probably not, I don't know, hundreds. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me at last to comment on the conclusions. We have proposed three conclusions. The first conclusion is that the Government is to be defined up to two laws tabled. This decision has become obsolete since the Government has defined itself up to both proposals for legislation. Up to one positive or partially positive, up to one negative. However, the decision is irrelevant and has also been overtaken by the amendment on the Committee on Finance, which is why we cannot agree. That is why, lastly, we have tabled an amendment to the first decision, the second conclusion that we say that we are aware of the Government's measures to assess that the Government's actions are going in the right direction, but that we are assessing that they are not sufficient. And when I listened to the Minister on the Committee on Finance and many other coalition members today, you all find that this wave is followed by another wave of measures that will upgrade you. Well, obviously the first one isn't enough for you, so there'll be others. And in this amendment, we also suggest certain concrete measures. That is why, of course, we will support the amendment to this, and now the first decision, the second, first, third decision, is obviously acceptable to all. So, ladies and gentlemen, a little more ambition in the actions that lead to development, we will find a common word soon.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The draft conclusions were considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. I'm giving the vice president a word. Happy Zerjav to present the report of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! At its 5th urgent meeting today, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the Proposal for Decisions concerning "Progressive action by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to avoid and mitigate the negative effects of the global financial and economic crisis on the Slovenian economy" submitted to the National Assembly by the 30 Members and Members Group for consideration. The meetings of the committee were attended by the mag. Mr Andrej Vizjak as representative of the applicant and the applicants of the request, the Minister of Finance and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development and the Legal and Legislative Services. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of 19. 12. 2008 which notes from the perspective of its tasks that the content of the proposed decisions should be assessed in terms of the constitutional position of the National Assembly as legislative authorities and therefore in the light of the principle of the division of power. The following opinion referred to the comments to the text of the conclusions proposed under points 1 and 2. On the basis of the reasonable application of Article 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an amendment was tabled by the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to the text of the decision under point 2. In its opening remarks, the representative of the applicants presented and justified the content of the request and the reasons for the convening of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, as well as the proposal for decisions to be adopted after the conclusion of the discussion by the National Assembly. At the time of the presentation of the Government's position, the Minister of Finance presented the measures which the Government presents in detail in its work on this agenda item. He stressed that the measures were adapted to the various tasks of the financial crisis, which is now being channelled into the real sector and assessed that in the coming months the situation would be restored and credit activity again at the level of last year. Following the introductory part, a discussion was developed, which is more precisely reflected in the committee's magnetogram. In the context of the consideration of the individual points of the proposed decisions, a proposal for an amendment was submitted to the Committee to replace the first and second proposed decision with a text relating to the assessment by the National Assembly that the measures taken by the Government were properly targeted but not sufficient. It is therefore intended to call on the Government to prepare concrete additional measures. The committee of this amendment did not support the vote. In the light of the relevant application of Article 130(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled by the SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS, the text of the proposal for a decision at the second point and adopted it. When Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure was applied, the Committee voted on the proposal for a decision under the first item and did not adopt it and on the proposal for a decision under the third item adopted by it. The proposal for a decision under the second item was completely amended by the amendment adopted by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! First, it is completely irrelevant for Slovenia and its people whether it is a candidate for this meeting of the opposition or a coalition. From this meeting and similar, where we are dealing with the real problems of our community, it is up to us whether we will successfully survive next year, which will certainly be the most demanding after 1991. If I understand correctly, it is clear to the Slovenian government that it has reacted too slowly to the situation. Here, let me just give you some explanation, which, I think, is pretty convincing. It took us 29 days to reach a package of measures that is now being judged in this high assembly. The total volume of public financial incentives in the industrial sector will be 2.1% of GDP next year. The Government proposes three sets of measures. To slow down economic growth, €70 million, to improve business liquidity and to maintain jobs, €668 million, to increase R & D expenditure and €68 million, a total of just over €800 million. We had listened to the debate before, and if I was allowed to do so, I would now touch it with a sentence. The government has not opted for relief or differentiated them when it comes to investment and development in companies. If they were not, this would increase the volume of public financial incentives by €150 million. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter of courage, it is a question of money. We have the courage. We don't have the money right now. And I do not want to see a debate in this high assembly in six months that the deficit in the state sector is significantly higher than 3%, which we are facing right now. So let's look at measures across sectors. First, measures of a financial nature. The first set is the preventive package, the issuing of state guarantees and loans. The second set deals with curative measures, increased state capital investments and the purchase of claims by the State. Here, by the way, let me mention that the whole range of things proposed by the panellist is acceptable to the Government. Soon we will make sure that the payment deadlines by the State are reduced to 30 days. Let's go to fiscal measures, what is the state of the public funding balance. During the period 2004 to 2007, the Republic of Slovenia maintained a policy of reducing the public financial deficit, which even increased to surplus in 2007. However, in 2008 the balance sheet will be balanced according to the latest estimates. The re-growth of GDP expenditure means that over the past period, public spending has been geared towards the high economic growth recorded by Slovenia and not to potential growth, which would allow for the symmetrical functioning of stabilisers. Let us look at the fiscal measures that we are proposing in the package, and later the ministers responsible for the so-called crisis group will explain them in more detail. The abolition of taxes on salaries paid, the reduction in the rate of corporate income tax, the reduction of income due to investment relief, the rise in excise duties, the subsidisation of full-time labour costs. We propose measures to promote economic growth and competitiveness, increase liquidity and plan measures for the quality development of the economy. When it comes to economic measures, we propose: reducing labour costs, measures to promote economic growth and, as is said, increasing liquidity, measures to strengthen key competitive capacities to promote corporate export activities for the further quality development of the economy. All of these are measures that we propose in a package that we can wrap up and send to the National Assembly within a very difficult time frame, within less than 30 days. With this High Council asking to take account of the fact that the Government could of course do otherwise in order to assess the measures only in its own right mind and through discussions with the social partners and through discussions with the Strategic Economic Council, send them to the Members and Members for their consideration. We've decided another way. From the start, we want to have active social dialogue and to the extent that it is possible to strike a balance between the very different expectations of the social partners in this dialogue. And you will all acknowledge here that these expectations are different and that there is a need to find a real, healthy and stimulating compromise for action. The scope of the package we are proposing is now EUR 800 million and as the mag has said. Vizjak, this is certainly not the last package of measures by the Government to come before the National Assembly in order for Slovenia to successfully overcome the situation in which Slovenia, together with the developed world, will find itself in the coming year. Four of our most important external economic partners are in recession. The recession will also move to Slovenia through business activities, now it is the announcement of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development that we will record some more than 1% of economic growth. We are therefore among those rare countries that still record positive economic growth. For the time being, the Slovenian economy is in good condition enough to enter this difficult year with the necessary incentives, with due concern, but without undue fear. The government will closely monitor what will happen in the coming weeks and months. No one has this ability to prophesy to predict the midst of the crisis that we are witnessing. However, we all know that it did not start with us and that it is not the object or product of the wrong decisions of this or that policy, but simply Slovenia is in the world covered by this economic and financial crisis and must now be known. As I said, we will look closely and also use those tools proposed by the European Commission as a way to solve and overcome the financial economic crisis, and it is partly up to us to take care of such action, as we say, with our ingenuity. The most important measure is that we plan job security. This measure amounts to almost €700 million. Then we will act very quickly on other measures. Some of those proposed by the proposer are acceptable to us and will soon be sent to the National Assembly through the legislative procedure. And I hope that, through the development dialogue, through the Partnership for Development and through the Economic and Social Council, we will also develop some necessary social consensus that Slovenia will still need in the coming year. Now I would ask the competent ministers to explain our actions in more detail. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u94	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u95	The President. Dear Members and Members! In view of what the President of the Government has said so far, I would focus on only some of the constraints that lead us in this action and in thinking about action or even more significantly restrict us. I think that in our country right now there is a lack of awareness of what these international restrictions are, which also work at national level, and I would like to devote a few minutes to this. Firstly, as regards the financial environment in which both the European Union and Slovenia operate. At the moment, credit markets are not fully operational, irrespective of the more than 200 billion measures that have been taken, so far, in the European Union for the resuscitation of credit markets and interbank operations. Slovenia cannot do much in this area, especially because it depends very much on what is happening in international financial markets. No significant improvement is expected for a short period of time, as is noted by the European Central Bank in its statements and in the measures it is taking. The most obvious indicator of the fact that, despite very ambitious measures, both the European Central Bank and individual Member States, and the largest, things do not work, is that, despite the tremendous reduction in interest rates, both the European Central Bank and the interbank market are not being brought to state securities. Which means that all the money runs into state bonds, especially bonds of German origin or German country. As a result, there are no liquid assets for credit activity towards the business sector, not only in Slovenia, but at this point nowhere in Europe. In most countries of the European Union, companies are not in a position to obtain quality medium-term funds from commercial private banks and in this case operate more or less, as normal as only para-State institutions, state banks or state development agencies. Another time. Forecasts of economic developments in the European Union are deteriorating from month to month. At the moment, for the euro area, which is important for Slovenia, they are already moving close to minus 1%, for individual countries, individual professional institutions are assessing the situation that goes close to minus 2%. Slovenia goes beyond growth in the European Union and in the euro area for about a multiple of 2, this is said to be the case that, in the wake of such further economic developments in these countries, Slovenia can move towards zero growth, but gradually this fear is pronounced. If this is the case, then this is the first significant limiting factor for the functioning of the Slovenian state or also economic policy. Another, an even more important limiting factor, is very simple, but at the moment it can be very cruel: there is no liquidity for the country's debt on the capital market. So a country like Slovenia, which has a double A "rating", which means classification, which is better in the European Union than Italian, for example, this moment, or I would rather say, by now, could not take advantage of the opportunity to obtain additional financial resources on European financial markets. The second year requires a country to service its own deficit debt, which would arise, whether or not the country would take action at this time, needs about EUR 3 billion. If there is no such obligation in international financial markets, it is not important whether the country has ambition and quality proposals, but will face the need to limit its spending due to the inability to obtain additional funding. Therefore, these two restrictions also significantly define any proposal by the Government or anyone else who wishes to justify stimulating economic activity in Slovenia and the maximum employment rate as well as the acquisition of new business opportunities. As the fiscal deficit passed on by Slovenia in the following year due to the measures already taken, due to the operation of automatic stabilisers operating countercyclically in such a situation, we are transferring in the following year a deficit worth around 2.1 to 2.2% of the social product. The measures planned by the Government at this time are approximately one percent more than the size of the social product. All of this together in unaltered circumstances means that we are potentially in excess of the deficit laid down by the Maastricht rules, which is 3% of the gross domestic product, with the only mitigating circumstance that Slovenia has been in a relatively favourable position in the past and is allowed to do so at this point in time by a deficit that may be around 3% or slightly above 3%, and will then require appropriate measures to reduce this deficit in the coming years following 2009. In view of all these restrictive circumstances, the Government assessed individual measures mainly with two essential substantive elements. Firstly, whether these measures have a relatively rapid impact on employment and have a positive effect on preventing a significant deterioration in economic activity. From this point of view, it assessed the structural and conjunctural situation of the Slovenian economy, where it is an essential feature of this economy, that relative shallowness is in the sense that it is highly export oriented and that measures that do not operate on export companies and their ability to maintain these markets can relatively little help to economic activity and relatively little can contribute to the deterioration of the balance of payments. At the moment, Slovenia has a serious, I will not say the problem, but it is a serious situation in the balance of payments. The negative percentage of the balance of payments is around 5 to 6%, and this results in financial outflows from the country due to the financing of this deficit and this means less credit in the country to support its own economy. The main feature at this point in the European economy is that all are financially closed, from the largest to the least. The main feature is: each solves his or her own problems. There is very little cooperation that the European Commission is talking about on common programmes to come out of the crisis. This is best known in the financial market, where there is no movement of financial assets across national borders, or through banks owned by foreign banks, there is even a negative outflow from the country. Slovenia must oppose this in an appropriate way, because this is the only way it can retain some credit and financial potential for the measures discussed in the previous debate. When we evaluated the proposals of both the opposition and the proposals of the previous government and the proposals made by this government or by the social partners, we primarily assessed the impact of this on economic growth and, as I said, employment through model analysis. And I think you have this in the annexes to these materials as well. These estimates have already been made on the basis of the macroeconomic assumptions of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which assesses 1% growth as a relatively positive scenario at the moment. So it's not an old-fashioned assumption that was possible three or four months ago. It follows that the best results could result in a linear reduction in the rate of contribution for pension insurance, which is not supported by most social partners at the moment for various reasons. An alternative measure to this, which works similarly and with similar effects both on employment and on growth, is the financing of full-time enterprises in reducing the working week. When we compared these measures with the tax relief measures, which were also discussed today, particularly in investment, the first set of measures for these two objectives, which I said earlier, were essential in determining the importance of individual measures. As a result, the Government has decided on this set of measures at this macro level, which today was also decided in the National Assembly. At this point in time, tax relief would be an interesting additional measure, which, depending on the fiscal position and its impact on economic growth, and on employment, has a significantly lower impact than measures related to the reduction of the costs of companies having difficulties in ordering and providing their market shares at home and abroad. If I finish. The overall measures proposed so far are measures which are measures at the moment that enable this country to operate in a relatively normal manner. We are aware that if such economic trends as foreign economic forecasters were to continue, this is not the last package the country will have to adopt. However, we must be aware that the Slovenian state has relatively limited possibilities under these two constraints, which I have mentioned: the Maastricht criterion on the one hand and the ability to finance such a deficit on the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u96	Thank you very much. He continues to explain the opinion of Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Minister of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Allow me to briefly introduce some additional measures. In particular, measures to strengthen the key competitive capacities of Slovenian companies. Given the situation in the economy that has just been described, we have decided to provide additional guarantees for loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, and also with a partial interest rate subsidy, to enable the implementation of development investments. The €50.6 million call allows businesses to have easier access to credit, with a significant change in the fact that the call will also include the possibility of obtaining a guarantee only for operational assets, as we also find that liquidity is currently the biggest problem. For investments in technological equipment, a €18.7 million tender is under way at this time. Due to the high demand for technological equipment subsidies, we will publish a new €35 million tender, which will also open up the possibility of obtaining funds for operational capital and development. In addition, the conditions and criteria for the allocation of funds will be adapted to the current market situation for which, as already mentioned, they are somehow not good. In the context of development and investment projects, we will add a new €50 million call for development projects for enterprise development projects currently in the completion phase. In 2009, the first venture capital company, to which the Republic of Slovenia will invest EUR 35 million, will be launched. The first venture capital company operating under the Slovenian Enterprise Fund will increase private investment in so-called "start up" companies and innovative companies with the potential for rapid growth. It is also important for us to make improvements in the processes and procedures for the allocation of cohesion policy funds in the implementation of all these measures, by simplifying the procedures for the application of projects, payments and reporting on the allocations. We will also make it possible to make effective use of the funds through more frequent payment of claims and we will allow advance payments for the appropriations allocated up to a certain amount of the appropriations allocated. As I have already mentioned, we will complement some of the measures with the possibility of co-financing the turnover capital. In fact, the situation in this respect is different that companies today face the great problem of financing their capital. If a few weeks or months ago the problem of financing new investments was still a problem, in fact, companies today point out that it is difficult to finance any so-called "revolving" credits, practically these renewable loans are becoming less available, financial institutions are extremely restrictive and therefore the problem of financing already operating capital seems very important to us. On the basis of the bond issued, the SID Bank will provide funding for the internationalisation of entrepreneurship, research and development of innovation, environmental protection and energy efficiency as early as 2009. Also, at the beginning of the second quarter of 2009, the SID Bank will provide two hundred and fifty million euros from the European Investment Bank, which will be spent on financing small and medium-sized enterprises and on the infrastructure of municipalities and other sources of finance, and 61.2 million euros from small and medium-sized enterprises. What I would particularly like to point out is that I will not be too long within a limited period of time, the Ministry of Economy will spend two hundred and sixteen million Euros from cohesion policy funds in 2009, of which it will provide additional funds of seventy million Euros by transferring spending rights from 2014 and 2015 in 2009. In short, this dynamic of drawing on these funds seems to us to be accelerated and we believe that we will get support here for such measures in the National Assembly as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Family, Work and Social Affairs, continues. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u99	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. From the point of view of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, let me stress that the crisis is, of course, spreading to this area as well, it indicates an increase in the number of unemployed from October to November by four thousand. The trend is, unfortunately, continuing in this direction. The recent forecasts of the Employment Office speak of 12,000 new unemployed in the coming year, which, in deepening the crisis, this number can still increase considerably. It's hard to judge where the limit is today. This will depend largely on the measures we will take to counter a trend that is very obvious. The situation in which we are can be identified as a situation of absolute job shortages or job cuts, and therefore the first and fastest preventive measure is to slow down this trend and maintain as many healthy jobs as possible. Thus, in the coming days, we will present to the National Assembly, as already mentioned, the Law on partial full-time subsidisation, thereby protecting the social situation of employees at the time of work and enabling employers to maintain the human resources for development, which we will also offer them at that time additional education and training programmes. This measure is a new measure from a set of active employment policy measures, up to EUR 230 million, and we expect to benefit from a large proportion of employees in Slovenia, for which businesses have already shown great interest or expectation to adopt this measure. The measure will be applicable already in January, as long as we adopt it early next month in the National Assembly. It is true, however, that this measure will work for the benefit of, in particular, those companies that are in difficulty, but will not be able to resolve all the situations in which certain undertakings have gone, and here we also expect further workers' forgiveness. In this case, programmes of passive employment policy will be available, which we anticipate, i.e. for unemployment and monetary aid, an additional EUR 54 million. The other measure, which is available to both employees and unemployed persons, is active employment policy measures or programmes, focusing on education, training, promoting entrepreneurship and self-employment, where there are still some options, we assess, particularly in the tertiary sector, and public works programmes. These measures will be allocated some €90 million, and we will also restructure them according to our needs, or give an emphasis to those who will be targeted at the most vulnerable social categories in the coming period. Of course, in the end, we still have social assistance programmes for those who are not actually able to benefit or stop using active employment policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Golobič, Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, continues. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u101	The Honorable President. A well-respected choir. Nicely greeted. I'm gonna try. I've been drawing most of my lines to catch those seconds. Very briefly. The proposal for R & D measures, which are a very important part of this package, will have both macroeconomic effects and will also contribute to the well-known and generally accepted Lisbon objectives, which are also subject or part of the coalition agreement. The European Commission emphasises that innovative companies face major cost obstacles on the way to innovation. In particular, they lack resources, both own and external. And these obstacles are among the most pronounced in Slovenia. Austria is investing, for example, in development and is among the better in Europe - 2.45% of GDP and 1.5% of Slovenia, some of which is more than half a percent of public funds. In the past week, the Finnish government has adopted a decision to increase the total amount of public and private resources in research and development by 4%, and this must give us reason. In these measures, therefore, it is only a first step in this direction that this step is clear. The funds, which have somehow been allocated around €50 million for this purpose, are being doubled to around €100 million. Unfortunately, ownership consolidation in the past has been more important than technological restructuring, and in these difficult times, it will be necessary to do things that need to be done if not only to survive crises, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But let's get out of it, too. [[...]] You have the measures listed in the material. The total value was mentioned. We have tried primarily to ensure speed - who is quick to, in these times twice to. Therefore, most of the funds are concentrated in the first two years. There will be fewer calls, so more calls will be made; simplified procedures will be simplified and SID Bank will provide companies with bridge funds so that they can be able to obtain grants by the time of receipt of the grant [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate, incomprehensible.]] [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u102	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr László Göncz, national community, has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u103	Dear Mr President, Mr President of the Government, Madam Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Even in the national community, we are aware of all the dimensions of the economic crisis and its impact on society as a whole. We therefore support the measures proposed by the Government after extensive substantive coordination. We understand her efforts and decisions to find optimal solutions. It is clear, however, that the proposed measures for individual segments of society appear to be somewhat partial because of the multidimensional problem and many unknowns. In spite of this, and in favour of some of the concerns related to the national and regional policies that I am going to bring down, we consider the proposed government proposals to be urgent. Their content is appropriate from a social and development perspective. In this regard, we also agree with those who point to future such measures, which should focus mainly on the somewhat neglected economic structures at this point. Measures aimed at addressing the economic and financial crisis must be based on the most convincing professional arguments and on the search for the greatest national consensus involving the professional public, the social partners and all political forces. There is no doubt, however, that the greatest burden and responsibility in this regard falls on the Government. I do not want to go further into the content of the proposed measures, but I would like to draw attention to the views of some Premuri economists in this regard. They point out that the proposed measures are somewhat unilateral and are to some extent written on the skin of companies that have faced relatively large problems before the crisis. They therefore propose early measures to help successful, export-oriented companies as well. These, at least some, have already had to reduce the production price of goods or services by 5 to 10% and the continuation or deepening of the crisis, and crisis spirals could put them in a difficult position. They therefore propose measures in the field of credit and development policy that could also ensure normal business in the coming months. Despite the fact that the proposed measures may not be directly written on the skin of less developed regions, I do not doubt the intention of the proposers to offer these options for a solution, for example, to the pomur companies. Nevertheless, I remind the Government that, when designing measures and carrying out its tasks, there should also be a reduction in the gap between developed and less developed regions. I am convinced that in this area, the Government must work continuously, even during the recovery of the crisis, towards equitable economic development, as well as in the development of national mixed areas. Whether the proposed measures help agriculture enough, someone asked here today. Farmers have recently consistently pointed out price inequality between sales price, for example, crop and increase in the prices of artificial fertiliser. How, though, will the crisis affect tourism and what concrete measures to ensure at least some optimal conditions in this important area, at least for operators of this type of service; how to maintain the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy in particular regions and the good condition of important economic sectors at this time? I hope that the Government will have answers to all these questions, otherwise the state will also have to face a decline in the medium-sized population that has been strengthened in the past. This will be particularly problematic for society. Finally, I reiterate our support for the proposed government measures in the national community. At the same time, we point out that they should extend to all potential areas where the impact of the crisis will be sensitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Bojan Kontic will present the views of the Social Democrats' Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers. Colleagues and colleagues! It has not been long since, perhaps a month since we heard in this Chamber and in the various media that the financial crisis is gone, and until the time when the motioners for today's meeting found that the government is taking action too slowly to mitigate the negative effects of the global financial and economic crisis on the Slovenian economy. If we consider the fact that the title of a point such as this prejudges the conclusion of this meeting, which we believe does not correspond to the actual situation, it is primarily the credibility of the proposers of this extraordinary meeting. Unlike the government chaired by Mr Janez Janša and acted in an extremely favourable economic situation and rejected warnings of the coming crisis, the current government has already faced difficulties and addressed measures immediately since the first day of its operation, negotiated with social partners and a number of economic experts, taking into account their comments, and on the basis of all the discussions and discussions it has proposed a number of measures. Today we have already considered two amendments to the laws and we have also unanimously adopted them. Prior to this, the current government has actively cooperated with the previous Government in the preparation and adoption of two amendments to the laws already adopted by the National Assembly, but this is only part of the measures proposed by the Government. This is the part that relates to the adoption of legislation, and in this area and in early January we can expect some more laws that the Government has already presented in graves and we will soon get them into consideration. This is mainly the Law on partial full-time subsidisation, and it is likely that there will be a law regulating investment incentives for small businesses where many other proposed measures do not have the effect that can be foreseen for large companies. Undoubtedly, the situation is very worrying, as the latest predictions of Umar show, and the situation is only exacerbating. At the time of the appointment, the Prime Minister announced that he did not expect the usual 100 days of peace, but that the candidates for today's extraordinary meeting, such a feeling, had only waited for the government to leave, which had been formed for the past four years and had immediately found that the new government was too slow to take action. In doing so, the former government, as I have already said, has tabled four amendments that have largely exhausted the possibility of financing government measures to limit the consequences of the global financial crisis if the country wants to maintain the deficit under the Maastricht criteria. Two of them were considered and adopted, of course with additions, amendments and two proposals were stuck in the procedure because, following a decision by the College of the President of the National Assembly, we waited for the Government to be defined on the proposals tabled by its predecessor. One of the proposals has been withdrawn by the Government, and the other today has been dealt with following an urgent procedure, a proposal which is late and consistent with our intentions even when we were in opposition. Unfortunately, there is relatively little space for the measures themselves and all measures, as we are aware, have a fiscal impact of more than €800 million, which is already almost the upper limit of opportunity. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the amendments to the laws that we have adopted today and also those that we will be considering in early January are not the only measures that the Government has drawn up. The type of measures that the social partners also agreed with is the responsibility of the Government itself or the institutions that are indirectly linked to the country, i.e. the Government. These measures were presented by the Government at this meeting at the time of its consideration of this item on the agenda in the introduction and also below, I hope so. We all know that the package of measures prepared by the Government is not the last one, and although we hope that the measures will be taken to a sufficient extent, additional measures are likely to be needed to respond to the very dynamic situation that is taking place with us and, above all, the world. We can all see that other governments in the European Union and around the world are responding to the changing situation daily, and we will do so in our country. Nevertheless, in the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the proposed measures, which focus mainly on increasing the liquidity of banks and businesses and on maintaining employment, are correct and supportive. We also support the way in which they are accepted when, in our opinion, a sufficient rate of acceptance has been ensured, taking into account rational professional consideration of their content. We are particularly pleased that the Government has also taken into account the comments and proposals made by the profession and the social partners in their preparation, as we are convinced that only through wider social dialogue can measures be taken that will really work and will be taken by everyone who must also implement them. The times of crisis in which we are sure require wider social consensus and our Government has our full support in seeking it. Let me conclude; the debate on measures to remedy or mitigate the economic and financial crisis is certainly very well-founded and also necessary in this assembly. In particular, if it runs within the framework which will ensure the necessary credibility also for the proposers of this meeting. We hope that a constructive debate will lead to new ideas for possible additional measures by the Government. The President of the Government has already announced support for some of the opposition's proposals in his presentation of the measures today. So now is really not the time to pick up political points. It is time for appropriate action. The draft conclusions will certainly be supported by the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Janša will present the views of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Before Slovenia, it is a challenge to respond effectively to the emerging economic crisis. No one knows exactly how long it will take for this crisis. The fact is, trust in the global financial system is broken. This is a key reason why the measures taken by individual countries do not "take" or act as expected and as would normally have had effects, and the fact is that this trust in the global financial system will not be repaid until practical changes in the global financial order have occurred. Despite this attempt at the G20 meeting, these changes will not take place until the world's most powerful economy, the United States, is formed and until the newly formed administration takes place, and until these priorities are seen. Without concrete changes in the organisation of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, without changing the rules of the game, without removing certain exceptions that are largely to blame for these balloons and for the grey zones that have resulted in the outflow of hundreds of billions from the real sector, there will be no new functioning global financial system and no complete trust. So we can predict, in a sense, that, while no one knows how long this crisis will last, we can very precisely see that the consequences will be felt for at least two years and that we can talk about the recovery of economic development in the developed part of the global economy only after the global financial crisis in the global financial system is cured. So it would be kind of wrong to count that 2009 will be difficult, and then everything will be the same. It will not be all the same after these causes have been resolved, because it will certainly not occur overnight in this recovery, but will occur after stages and at different rates in different parts of the world economy, even in terms and in particular in terms of the measures and the effectiveness of the measures to be taken by individual countries. We ourselves, not only because we are not among the world's twenty largest economies, but also because we are in no way the reason for this problem and this crisis, we cannot be more actively involved in solving the causes themselves, but we can do much to mitigate the consequences of this crisis, which is largely imported. And here several steps have been taken so far, which have been positive, which in some way prevented the financial crisis itself from having direct consequences with us, but, of course, it is not possible to avoid the second phase of this crisis, which is a crisis in the real sector that is now taking place. During the last months we were in Slovenia in some intermediate period. The old government was leaving, the new government was performing. And yet we have managed to harmonise and adopt some measures in a timely manner, and unfortunately for some, I see, not only have we failed to adopt them in some way, at a time when we would actually give the greatest results and the greatest impact, but that if there is no strategic dilemma, whether they are necessary or, as the President of the Government has previously said, we have money or real conditions to do so. At the time of this new government's launch, there was a promise of a course that can be expressed in some way in three points. It was said that a development partnership would be established, which would focus on mitigating the consequences of the economic crisis, that joint assessments would be adopted, that direction would be established, that negotiations with the social partners would be negotiated and that a package of measures would then be followed. Now we have first met, about a month and a half waiting for the division of up to two laws that were tabled in early November. Today we have adopted two laws, but they represent about 20% of the proposed measures. There was a series of meetings, no one denying it, with the social partners, I doubt that any of the important ones had been released. However, these were individual meetings, which were unrelated, and each of them presented its views, which, given the diversity of the interests of the social partnership, is not necessarily different, nor has there been a conflict of interest between the partners themselves, except for the meeting of the Economic and Social Council. And today, with the reverse agenda of this session, we first addressed two individual measures, which represent some of the smallest common denominator of what could be coordinated with the social partners, and which represent only 20% of what was already proposed in early November, after the weight of the impact of these measures on the economic situation. While some other measures have been announced in this material submitted by the Government. Why they are not yet, is not more concretely explained, but it is clear that they will not work for the year 2008, which is running out and is today's meeting for their adoption. It is therefore a pity for this missed opportunity, and it is a pity that we have not been able to agree on a partnership for development based on the good practice set out in the previous mandate immediately after the new government has given priority to harmonise these assessments, and on this basis also to propose this package together. But given that the challenge remains, of course this can still be an opportunity, our offer remains here, we will also prepare a proposal for an agreement on our part, if the Government does not have time, tomorrow we will also have a constructive meeting of the Slovenian Democratic Party Expert Council, an expert body that is willing to work with the Government to help prepare these measures. Now, as we see in substance the coming months and perhaps years in addition to what I have already said in the introductions and what my fellow Member, Mr Vizjak, has previously presented, perhaps a few more points also from what the representatives of the Government have said, it is clear that, unlike some other discussions previously, the global financial crisis in Slovenia has not directly affected Slovenia in the sense that some financial institution has also collapsed in our case. [[...]] At least as long as we had this data, there was no indication in any balance that this could happen, and I hope that even in these months there will be no surprises, but slowing down, reducing and sometimes disrupting financial flows in the global financial system would of course also jeopardise the functioning of the financial system in Slovenia: or as seriously as Minister Gaspari had previously said, or we cannot discuss, but the fact that this impoverishment was and is still somewhat greater than it should be, also due to the rigidity of our domestic Slovenian financial institutions, which, of course, have some money but do not lend it despite guarantees. As the financial crisis has affected some of the world's most powerful economies, this has, of course, had an impact in the so-called real sector and these consequences have been significant in recent months, especially in countries where Slovenia exports most. Weeks of work are being reduced, production programmes are falling, demand is falling and, of course, has consequences throughout the chains. The consequences of this global financial crisis, which did not directly affect Slovenia at first, will be extensive in the real sector. Slovenia is a highly interconnected part of the European economy, on the one hand due to its membership in the European Monetary Union, and this is one of its advantages and, on the other hand, it is exposed to the same consequences as the rest of the developed world due to its dependence on exports to these European markets that are shrinking. However, as has already been pointed out in part, in this situation Slovenia has some advantages. The first advantage is in low debt. We're somewhere at 24% gross domestic product. Up to 60%, which is the limit of the Stability and Growth Pact, is enough room for manoeuvre, and this is the space to be used in times like those that are now performing. Earlier, the President of the Government said that these measures would in some way eliminate the budget surplus planned for this year's budget, and this is a normal reasonable move where it is not appropriate to have a budget surplus when it is necessary to provide additional room for manoeuvre or additional resources for the economy. It was also created because of the reserve. Slovenia also takes precedence over the relatively developed and dynamic sector of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which also employs the most workers. I am glad that one of the laws that was previously adopted is designed to keep it that way. I am sorry, however, that some 20% of this sector, that some 20% of this sector is unnecessarily excluded from these facilities because it has no real or other basis. Slovenia also has an advantage due to the experience in the Slovenian economy, which at the beginning of the 1990s had to look for new markets overnight after the collapse of the common Yugoslav market, and this experience, which is lacking by most other European economies, is positive at this time and can help to bring about more rapid practical reactions in the real sector. Unlike some other countries in our neighbourhood as well as within the European Union that are not in the euro area, membership in the European Monetary Union is a priority for Slovenia, gives it a certain stability, and regardless of what we have previously heard about financial liquidity problems, I think this should also provide a better position in achieving financial resources abroad. No matter - first of all, according to what has been said about these measures, which are still being prepared or recorded in this government paper. The first two measures: the abolition of the pay tax and the reduction of the corporate income tax rates were adopted by the National Assembly in 2006. Therefore, the first two measures cannot be judged in this Government's package of measures since they were adopted in 2006 and have already been in force since 1 January 2007. The tax on paid wages will no longer be paid by the end of this year - it is gone! So I don't know why these measures are listed in the first place. This second or the first - I don't know how this is written in a row - is a real reduction in the corporate income tax, of course it would make sense if it were supported, but the law proposed in early November was rejected in the position of the new government. And nothing is proposed here, except what is already in force and what was sufficient for the situation we were in in 2006 and 2007, and this assessment, which is now, is simply not enough. If we are here in some small way and do not use this manoeuvre space, which we have because we have a flat budget this year and because of this possibility of borrowing up to 60%, then it seems to me that these strengths and those advantages that Slovenia has will not be able to take advantage of in later times with the same efficiency. In the last term, I personally visited more than 200 Slovenian companies, and the voices that are now coming speak of the opportunities that can now be taken advantage of in six months. Companies that have, say, worked, and these good companies have been in the dozens, in the production of components of automobiles or in the production of automotive parts, it is affected. In fact, with minimal investment, these companies can do something different on the same lines, for other sectors, for example, for energy, where there is still a greater demand in the world, but they need certain resources and they need it now; in six months, it will matter because these opportunities will go on the water or will be smaller. Therefore, especially when it comes to business, as previously pointed out, I think it is necessary to follow the tested principle that the reduction of taxes is the most effective and lasting measure of active employment policy. Companies are the ones who can assess where there are jobs, where there are programs that create new jobs, and this cannot be done in the employment offices or in the ministries instead. In fact, we are producing bureaucracy that will evaluate the programmes. A few new jobs will be in the membership of these commissions, and there will be less in businesses, and money will be spent. In fact, here I appeal to the Government to reconsider whether it would not matter at the beginning of the following year, when certain measures can be implemented even for 2008 before the balance sheet is issued, to reduce additional 2 percentage points, as proposed, of the corporate income tax over the next two years, gradually, and not to introduce additional investment incentives. There will be no relief for the one who invests, and that will not be the taxpayer's money that will be poured out of the budget. And they will invest those companies that see a perspective on these investments, and this will provide new jobs. Having the illusion that it is possible to maintain all existing jobs, that it is possible to maintain 260,000 jobs, as stated in this paper, with budgetary measures, is excessively, absolutely excessively. It is possible to help some companies with these measures, so of course we do not oppose them, but it is not possible to create new jobs with this paradigm, only those companies that see a certain perspective can do this. To conclude, let me say that we see in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group two options and two different ways of action. The first path is campaigning, it's looking for easy solutions from month to month. It will be necessary to complement the measures every month because things will come that cannot be predicted. However, at least roughly what can be done earlier and what can have positive effects before. So, one campaign path to finding spot solutions from month to month is a path where there is a risk that this space and these advantages that Slovenia has will be used without sufficient long-term effects. We can get into a spiral when the reduction in employment and the lower value created will, of course, impoverish the public treasury or the national treasury on the income side. If there is less economic growth, there will, of course, be less income. At the same time, increased unemployment will require an increase in social expenditure and these figures, which have been mentioned, are a real warning. This will lead to legislation that guarantees these guaranteed rights to a permanent increase in social transfers and, of course, public spending, surpluses and this room of manoeuvre that it is will collapse. We can quickly reach the ceiling of debt and then there will be only a rise in tax and contribution rates, because no one will take the right in such a situation. Unemployment can continue to grow, and this is a very rapid spiral down. In this case, talking about two years as trends may go up, Slovenia is irrelevant and the consequences may be the poverty of citizens, the decline in standards and, of course, the decline in the competitive capacity of economies. A strategic response is also possible. This is what we expected, and the beginning of this government's mandate has promised, steps in this direction. Today we've only done a quarter of what I think we could do. The first point of this strategic response is the rapid and significant economic burden for at least the next two years, for 75% of the available manoeuvring space provided by the state, the current state of Slovenian public finances and also the possibility of being in debt. In view of the difficult situation in which it is possible for the State to obtain a financial asset from outside the previously referred to by Minister Gaspari, I propose that consideration be given to the possibility of issuing state development bonds in order to verify how much such possibility already exists in accordance with national law and in accordance with European rules. In our savings banks, for around €16 billion of natural persons, with some stimulating interest rate on national development bonds, some of these assets, which are at home, do not have to be made from abroad, spent on development; in particular, in connection with the acceleration of some infrastructure investments to maintain economic activity and employment. This will be necessary, and other countries will do so if the problem of external financing is to consider national development bonds. In our view, the continuation of the Lisbon reforms is also part of this strategic response to the challenges of the economic crisis. There's no big difference here. It is necessary to continue with what has been said before in the performances of certain representatives of the Government. This is said to be facilitated by R & D and, of course, by investment equipment. Without that, there will be no new jobs. Also, Minister Lahovnik's announcement to redirect the work of European funds for development purposes is a step that I welcome. Here is a reserve of several hundred million euros that can be used earlier, which can be used for precisely defined purposes, which are now priority, and in this financial perspective until 2011 Slovenia has a very favourable financial position or potential, depending on how, we will use these funds. Of course, part of this strategic response is the social measures required by each crisis, but these social measures need to be taken selectively, for the most affected categories of citizens, and for the time when such assistance is actually needed, not in terms of the general dissemination of certain rights, which then grow beyond their purpose. So, despite these challenges facing us and facing the current situation and the demands of the current economic crisis, of course, development will not stop, it will only be more selective and complete, and growth can sometimes be negative, which does not mean that everything will stop and that there will be no opportunities. After, say, two years here will be the advantage of one who today will be able to watch a step further. Not only are they short-term, but they are not only social, they need development measures, and I would not have so easily agreed to this dilemma, which was previously highlighted by the Prime Minister when he said: we have courage, but we have no money. Now that we're talking about these measures, there's obviously a lot to do with the money we have. But it's a question of how we use it. However, as the Government wrote in these measures, for eight hundred million euros, this figure, which is mentioned, proves that we are not without money and here is actually the dilemma of how to use it, because we can only use it once. If we use these funds to provide a strategic response to the points I spoke about earlier, then Slovenia will certainly come out of such a situation sooner than those which do not have these advantages that we have. This time in the meantime will also be somewhat more promising. Once again: the offer made by the President of the Government behind this pay phone when he proposed a new government team in terms of a strategic development partnership, even in a political sense, was still supported by us at the time. But now we need the next step. This has to be materialized. And somehow we need to materialize this proposal and these ideas using formula 2 plus 10. It is therefore necessary to address the measures to be taken over the next two years, but not to forget unanimously, with some, the national consensus, the adopted strategies for the development of Slovenia and to impose measures also for those 10 years after some amendment of this strategy. Here we see the positive ambition of this proposal and we are just waiting for the next step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik will present his position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to those of you who have joined us at this point. In the Group of Members, we really expected that the proponents of this point, which is titled "Slow action by the government to avoid and mitigate the negative consequences of the financial and economic crisis", would be able to call it some kind of mini-interpellation in order to withdraw it. Why? In order to address this point, the government's actions have not come any faster, they will not be any better, nor will they be any worse. It is true that the time component of the measures is very important. However, it is also true that some of you have had problems with the perception or realization of the fact that the crisis is also coming to Slovenia a few months ago, that it is coming at a time delay, but that it is here. That is why it is so strange that this emphasis is too slow, although the explanation of this emphasis is modest, and in this sense we have not heard anything new, as in the proponents' opening statement. It is true that the criteria proposed by the Government have to be assessed - some have been accepted, some have been accepted today, that this can be measured or evaluated with different criteria and, in any case, with the time criterion, the substantive and the public financial consequences. There was very little talk today about the public funding implications of the measures envisaged. In view of the fact that some have not yet had a problem with the recognition that the crisis is here, between us, in Slovenia, and even at the time of the delay, and all the consequences thereof, it should be recalled that, in terms of the public financial framework or the public financial implications, the previous government took a number of pre-election measures this spring, despite the fact that the first warning signs took place, which upgraded the projected expenditure in the 2009 budget already after the rebalancing for the good 650 million. At least we fly them: an enormous increase in the child allowance of 30 to 35 million, free kindergartens for all, including rich ones, those that do not need 30 to 40 million, a one-time dragan allowance for pensioners, - 32 and a half million, free diet for pupils - 40 million, a shift to a new wage system in the public sector - 215 million or an increase from 0.3 to 1.7 GDP. Well, that's not all. In addition, the commitments arising from the so-called Virant pay reform, which require a similar amount of 617 million, 114 million in public administration, 70 million in education and education, 303 million in health, 48 million in social protection, 57 million in culture, 10 million in research and 15 million in other activities, should be added. In addition, because of the multiplier effect, these amounts will increase and will only be needed for health care estimates of 330 million additional resources due to salary reform and not 303, as guaranteed, and there will be a poor 16% increase in the salaries of doctors, although this is not the main reason, but for 34 and that total of 179 million will be required after the source of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and that for the second year there will be one of the four public cash registers in loss of 100 million. If the President of the Government had previously evaluated the proposed measures of the Government to some 800 million, the question is, of course, whether it is small, much more than that. In view of the above-mentioned commitments, which are above or close to the 2009 budget in force, of course this is the upper limit. It is true that in this time component, which is important, one of the circumstances or the objective problem of elections, which in some way confused this time component or, if you want, the responsibility. Of course, there is no way to agree to some of today's declarations and implementation that we have proposed on 7 November. The question is why we have not proposed or proposed two months earlier and similar things. So, of course, because of this point, unfortunately, except that we had the opportunity to hear a more detailed explanation of the measures by the representatives of the Government, there will not be much benefit. And it would be better if the point were to be withdrawn or otherwise addressed in order to discuss in more detail where the measures came from, even though I see that the debate will go this way and very little is the time component. In the parliamentary group, we will support the two decisions voted on the parent committee, although we do not expect specific benefits from these decisions, and I hope that there will be no harm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franz Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u111	Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! There is no doubt that we have had favourable economic growth over the past four years, but now this. Just like the one on the gravestone that said, "I've been healthy my whole life, but now I'm here." I am sure that we will not similarly end this story, the crisis, and that it will still work in terms of solutions that will help us to get away with it. On 21 November this year, a new government was appointed. The President of the new government has declared that he does not need a hundred days of peace, and that is why he will not have it, and I hope he enjoys it. We are simply in a certain sense and to a certain extent concerned, and we want things to move as they should. Just 20 days after the appointment of the new government, a request for an extraordinary meeting came in, not to say, a pre-arranged accusation that the new government's actions were too slow to take decisions and so on. What we heard in explanation. Perhaps respected applicants do not think that more than 100 million Euros of valuable action can be decided quickly, as if they were pulling a white rabbit out of a hat by some wizard. That's not the case. Such things need much thought, for responsibility is too great to take matters quickly and quickly. America has invested $700 billion in fast, and none of that. It's just a matter of case, by the way. We think that the new government has had the right to think seriously about what needs to be done, and I can also say that a positive attitude towards the proposals of the outgoing government, which has drawn up two laws, and we have also adopted them together, can also say, a negative attitude towards the next two laws, of which we have adopted one today, but I have here to correct the former Prime Minister who said that if this law were adopted earlier, it would have greater effects. No major impact would have had an income law, even if it had been adopted one month or two earlier. So these arguments don't work everywhere, especially in adults who think. Of course, it is interesting that there was no great rush and nervousness about delays in the government where we were with them, but some warned that things were not going as we agreed, and some in all four years we did not. They weren't that few. Among other things, we have not resolved any financial matters in the same way as the Court of Auditors reports. If I were to give just a case of absolutely imprecise spending of resources in the field of health, where more than ten billion Slovenian tolars were spent illegally, nothing happened to anyone, no one was imprisoned, no one was seized of the unjustifiable, I would say controversial conclusions and so on. We think that, however, the new government works as it seems that last week it has taken measures that are good and we support them. We will also support the two Committee decisions adopted by the Committee on Finance today, which speak of the fact that we are familiar with this issue today, because it is not true that the Government will take its decisions too slowly, in fact there is no evidence. Moreover, there is nowhere to write, and we are convinced that it is not necessary that all the measures that are theoretically possible be taken at the same time, because the matter could be reversed and it is not necessary for them to act better, because it would be too much not to say that the National Assembly would not be able, for example, to adopt five, six or seven laws before the holidays. Therefore, it is only natural that some of the measures in the Government will still be reconsidered and laws that we will adopt early next year, especially if this is necessary. Those measures, too, will be supported by our Group of Members, noting that we may be held back if there is no one among them to alleviate the plight of the poorest in this country, because we have agreed on some things in this area and are willing to be tolerant only for as long as it takes to do everything else, the other, which is essential and must help the economy. But there's another matter we'd like to point out. I am afraid that there may be some help for the economy as well. If we turn around. Today, when I drove to Ljubljana, it was not in the reports at seven that the director of a company cheered up, that the CEO of the company who said, quote from the memory, that "We have been preparing for the crisis for months and we know what we are going to do or we will do something else if it doesn't work anymore, what we've been doing so far." And what do I mean by that? That he was an economist who, with a great deal of responsibility months ago, when he knew where things were going, he was thinking about what to do to keep the company from going down. And they were looking for new solutions, new programs, and today he said that they have ideas and solutions to get out of the crisis that will undoubtedly hurt them because they work in the automotive industry. What I'm trying to say is that they're not enough in our country. To get high wages, many managers share profits, sink them into yachts, expensive cars, and more. However, when problems need to be tackled with reduced demand and declining production, they threaten to forgive and demand state aid without selling the yacht, and return it as part of past profits to a company where workers who have created that profit in the past are now unemployed because of the crisis. We think that it is necessary to remember, in particular, the successful in the past, that they should, and that it would not only be ethically ethical, but also the human, intellectually necessary part of the profits should be returned to the resolution of the crisis. Not just hundreds of millions of euros of money from the state's public finances, which is supposed to be owed and so on and so forth. We feel that it is right that we have met today to say this to ourselves, to reawaken our thinking in the business world, and to draw attention to some detail that has been said too little. All this will be richly complemented in the debate. We are pleased that the Government's actions have been taken, we will support them, and we will also, as we say, support both conclusions at this point in the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u112	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u113	Thank you so much for your word and a nice hello! Each Government reacts too slowly and takes action too slowly. And so is this, and so is the former, and so is all that is to come, and all that is to come. It's always too late. There's always something at the wrong time. Surely we can also say that the previous government did not react and was too slow to regulate matters. After all, this great economic performance that we have been talking about has been largely due to successful debt and large imports. The external deficit shows that just before the crisis, we used at the annual level already for a good EUR 3 million more than we could create our own product. And that's what wasn't reacting at the right time. However, I think it is right that we have met today to open up some reflections and to work hard in these areas. It's not enough to talk today. If we don't tighten it together, I'd say what kind of band he's gonna say, what kind of loop he's gonna say, maybe even some loop around his neck, it's not gonna be a big deal. After all, greedy owners of companies have already taken their money to safety. They're going to stay unemployed, and what are we going to do with them? The burden of the state budget will fall and we will all be very supportive of the unemployed together. And if we look at what's happened so far, when everyone's jamming. Bankers are jamming, and they say that it will be imperative that we all contribute part of the effort and sacrifice to solve the situation, because the crisis will touch everyone. And if we look at what's going on here, we see that in times of high economic growth, only managers and owners shared the profits. Only a few of the workers had any profit from it. I don't know how we're gonna solve this if not with a strong rigorous incision where it's gonna be necessary. In the documents we received today from the Government, in fact, there are some shortcomings to be said. There are no clear criteria for subsidising wage contributions, which means that companies that have had problems before the economic crisis can also be supported. What if they apply to these subsidies for that difference in working hours all legal persons in Slovenia, under the pretext that they have an economic crisis and then get money from the country to cover their salaries, even though this is not necessary? In fact, they get money from the state for free. Companies that have a serious setback and workers are working, say, on half of the previous worker, subsidising one hour or two in this case does not help. Here the government needs to complete things, establish some control mechanisms, because in Slovenia our entrepreneurs are very inclined to try to take advantage in the simplest and easiest way. This means at the expense of the State and at the expense of all taxpayers. While the government clearly recognises the positive characteristics of tax cuts in the report, there is not really a word of this tax reduction. The reduction of the deposit does not mean much, as taxes will still have to be paid and, of course, saves the short-term liquidity of companies. The tax reduction measure is superior to the subsidy measure, since it first retains and increases investment funds in the company, which is of course very important because the creditworthiness of the banking system has decreased, and secondly because it can obtain additional remuneration. The Government's argument is that they will not reduce taxes due to public consumption. However, this argument is certainly not appropriate because public consumption should be reduced. The fact is that the Republic of Slovenia actually has the largest public consumption in Europe. And we can't run from that. The proposal itself does not contain much on solving problems in the banking sector. In essence, it is essential to enable credit activity and to prevent problems due to the decline in the value of the shares held in banks. As early as this year, we had adopted one law under the new government, where our amendment was not adopted. There's a mistake here, too. Here too some will try to avoid, and they will also succeed in avoiding, controlling the country and making additional profits. The chapter on the SID Bank is too small, too short, too small, and there is no real proof that the matter will work at all. The proposal also contains nothing on the correction of collective wages in public administration, which are currently very much ahead of productivity. And there's something else that needs to be done. Until we establish the responsibility of the tycoons and the management personnel, there will be nothing. Why not introduce such a responsibility that those gentlemen who go to great managers who are not responsible for anything are not responsible for their misdeeds with their property. I don't think that Slovenia would have any more directors at the time. In that case, everyone would run away, wash their hands and say, "faith, that's not going, that's not fair, that's unconstitutional, that's a reduction in human rights." And perhaps our saving Constitutional Court would have given them the right one. We've come so far in this country. Until the social issue, which is not settled, is settled, Slovenia will breathe deeply. And why don't we take the case in Germany, where this social situation is very well worked out and it is known that that proverb we Slovenians know and it is said to him, "He who doesn't works should not," in Germany applies. In Slovenia it does not apply. In Slovenia we say: "Whoever doesn't work at least is, but doesn't fuck with it." It's a new Slovenian proverb. And until we resolve these social matters until we review them, there will be nothing. It's a gray square. The grey market is terribly dispersed in Slovenia. Nobody's controlling him. Control services, inspection services, are down. Something because they don't know, something because they're being bribed, something because they're afraid, something because they say what I care about, I get paid, everything else goes "sugrut". Until the state reaches here and those who don't work in this area are called to account, there will be nothing. It is true that these are unloving measures, but these are unloving measures only for some, many times also for the political staff of certain political options that should not be held against their people because they helped them in the elections. However, we owe it to all citizens. And here we have to show our brilliance and say, "Lady, this is the end of it." Surely it is also possible to obtain some European funds. Why not? The government is expected to receive around €280 million from cohesion funds in 2009. This means 280 million euros too little. Why should Slovenia not look for opportunities to attract European funds? Why are we so narrow in Slovenia that we do not see the possibility of moving things forward? Why we don't want to talk about photovoltaics, instead of adopting, say, a law like that of the Spanish, which says that where 400 square meters are free, an investor has to give up photovoltaics. Today it's a simple thing, today it's not like I don't know what terrible records, what weight, and I don't know what it is. And that's how we get green electricity. Europe is very well subsidised. And we are committed to European standards that, at a certain time, we will generate 20%, like Europe, of electricity from green sources. On the other hand, we do not want to see the possibility of drawing any money from Europe. This is the inability of Slovenian personnel to drown in bureaucracy and bureaucracy. If they can't fix something, they find another form to camouflage their incompetence, and that incompetence is passed on to the citizens. That's a lot of nonsense. He'd still be giving us the money in his head. I'd like to see any company that gets the money come up with one plan. I don't need to know how detailed this plan is, but let it have one bright vision. Let it be known that someone is trying to do something. Basically, if we look at which companies in the world are the most pro-pulsive, just the ones with new ideas, fresh ideas. Not now to discover, "wow, I'd make pots" because already every Chinese makes them at home out of plastic. It's over. You need to find ideas. If we collect all the ideas of Slovenian companies, we'll find them the hell out of them. Therefore, Slovenia has gone in the direction where it is easiest and easiest to collect money from the pockets of citizens - to trade. Cheap buys, expensive sells, if possible take the money out. And one more thing, in the end. Until we have the right police to hunt down thieves, including those who stole money and went to the Netherlands, to carry money to the Cayman Islands, or I don't know where, to buy property in Canada and so on. Until we catch this, nothing will happen. None of these gentlemen are practically sitting down yet. They're full of newspapers. Photos in such a position, photographs in those positions. They're all saying something about how they were working, but now they've been taken down. Please, 90% of these people have never worked, but they've been very successful at stealing and cheating. Very successful! And today, gentlemen of honor. That's it. If someone steals a piece of bread, it's a thief! If someone steals billions, he's a businessman! This is a changed logic, which in Slovenia applies. And of course we have courts that can't judge who don't know what the left is, what's the right, what's the law, what's the regulation. They don't know! Easy! But they've certainly settled their status. They are now the same as Members and Ministers after all, except after the term of office. But they kept the mandate! Death! They're doing nothing anyway! If we look at the Slovenian courts today, or if anyone knows they're "stretching". No one knows. Because when they didn't strike, it was like today. Now, let's just say they didn't do anything at the time, and today they don't "screw" or today they "screw" and then they didn't do anything. I think so. And until something happens, until some guy breaks the valve and he calls some gentlemen and puts them up, I don't know where I'm not gonna say it, and you're gonna jump again if I say it in front of the wall, and it would be healthy, it would be very healthy, it wouldn't be anything. We have capable men. The Customs Administration has a very good team that has actually discovered all these drugs that are being praised by cops, and they've discovered a lot of shit. Those people are called up and they're called, "Lady, here you have the authority, we're taking the Financial Police Act to work now. So start on the Ljubljana streets and stop that kid, who's twenty-four years old, and he drives a Porsche, I don't know what kind of GTX is, and I don't know what else. Or when he drives with the latest Mercedes, he says, "You, boy, what's your education?" And he's gonna say, "Well, I did elementary school." "How much do you deserve?" "And I'm not at work." "Where did the car come from?" "Yes, the old mother sold what, and the "fotter" sliced it all together." As long as this happens in Slovenia, nothing will happen. And here is the biggest task of the Slovenian new government to make order. Here. For things like this, where you need to squeeze someone, it's nice to ask them, "Where did you get a 20-foot-long yacht, please? Who did you "fuck"? Country? Collaborators? The company? Citizens? And that's when he needs to pick it up. In America, in Germany, in England, in France, this gets picked up and the gentleman is going to sit down. And not for twenty-four hours, as our officers are most happy to lock up those who drink a little too much, but for twenty-four years. And when he gets out, there's nothing left. And that's what we should do. Then it would be different. In principle, I hope that the government will learn from what I have said. This is the position of the Slovenian National Party and we represent this and we will help the Government in these matters, with great pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The simplest thing is to comment, to thank for the debate and to report that the views of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by the mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague. The financial and economic crisis around the world is gaining an ever-increasing dimension. The crisis is also showing up in an ever-increasing decline in export demand. Thus, we can hear about the problems of the automotive industry, the problems in the real estate market, a number of companies predict large redundancies of workers, corporate bankruptcy and the like. With all these predictions, it is understandable that fear of an unforeseeable future is on the rise among the population. It would be even more understandable that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would act without delay. Since these measures were not and were not, but you have dealt with everything else, especially with human resources issues, we have listened every day to proposals for such and other measures, and since it was possible that, among other things, the opportunity for the Slovenian economy to be burdened already for 2008 would be missed, we have proposed calling for this extraordinary meeting. And only then did we get on the table a so-called package of government measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis. We have examined the proposed measures carefully and with interest the Slovenian People's Party's Group and the Economic Committee of the Party. But in truth, we are disappointed because we expected much more from government experts. Above all, more courage, more wealth, ambition and concrete action. As we know, any crisis can at the same time be an opportunity. For example, an opportunity to strengthen your competitive ability. Slovenia already has an experience of how to get out of the crisis from the past. According to our assessment, for example, subsidising labour costs for reduced working hours is not the right signal for the economy. This is not in line with the need to increase demand or consumption and the need to find new business opportunities. While we are against trying to introduce this, it is necessary to predict who will also bear these costs. If work hours are cut, this will certainly be known on wages. We are wondering, for example, what about those companies that will be hiring at that time. So with those companies that will increase the number of employees. How are we gonna reward that? In the SLS Group, we agree that investment relief is needed. If the investments under way and after these economic times are large, they stop, a large part of the economy will have major problems, which will again result in lower demand. There is an urgent need to ensure that investments continue both in companies and in the country. During this period, it is necessary to encourage joint investments between the State and the local communities. Public expenditure, expenditure which is rapidly achievable and regionally dispersed should be encouraged. However, reading all these measures raises a question for me, but what about agriculture? Something small is mentioned in the proposal for a law amending the Income Act when it comes to investment, investment facilitation. And that's all. It is necessary to know, as already in the previous item on the agenda, that in the last year the situation of agriculture has deteriorated tremendously, that there is no agricultural sector capable of covering these costs at all costs. Somehow we have the feeling again that no one cares about a small man, a simple country man, a farmer. It has been demonstrated that the income in agriculture will decrease enormously in the following year, that the costs of falling purchase prices on global markets have increased enormously. And it has to be solved somehow. I'll point it out one more time. Is the crisis for just one part of people, for big businesses and banks, or is it a crisis for everyone? We don't like that kind of discrimination. I think that thinking that it is only necessary to help large and good companies is wrong. Help is needed for those who need help. Many government representatives, ministers and even the Prime Minister of the Government have publicly discussed helping good companies. The Minister for the Family, Work and Social Affairs of the Left Government has also supported such thinking, and although such non-infringement with the bad companies can occur, I will point out my Mura, which means between 15% and 20% of unemployment very quickly. This is the wrong world for me. And there's one more thing. The government has not said anything about the most important: how it will save itself, how it intends to reduce the cost of operating the country. This raises doubts about the Government's sincerity that it wants and can prepare appropriate measures to help the economy. Finally, let me make a few more proposals. The deferral of payments of contributions and taxes should, in our view, be introduced selectively, not just for all companies. In these times, we also think it wise to raise general income relief, which would mean higher nets and promotion of consumption, but most of all would help those who have the least. Finally, amendments to comprehensive legislation should be drawn up as soon as possible, thus containing provisions or chapters for times of crisis. Such laws are certainly the Labour Relations Act, the Public Procurement Act, and some have already been mentioned today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The point is certainly serious, for only the presence of the President of the Government and many ministers proves that these issues have been addressed in the right way. In the past mandate, we discussed several points that were certainly important for Slovenia, but so serious approaches by the Prime Minister and ministers have not seen much. One of the current situations that we can talk about and agree with in the Liberal Democracy Club is uncertainty. No one knows what lies ahead, so it is estimated that on the one hand the measures are sufficient or modest, simple flat-rate and just across. If all of those options and the financial resources we have are used immediately at the beginning, then, of course, it remains that we will go part of the way forward naked and barefoot, so we consider this approach to the government as a benefit, that matters are being systematically, thoughtfully, slowly, cautiously, small steps in the right direction and there is still something in the reserve. And as we've heard today, what you've seen is far from everything. The government is thinking and preparing and designing solutions for the future. Psychosis, particularly on the opposition side, is also very common during this time, namely psychosis of waste of time and emergency action. But this government has taken action earlier than in the 1930s, with skeletons appearing in the closets and that they will be, and that we also need to look back, that we were in a period of extraordinary economic growth and that when we could save something for these difficult times, we do not have a spare, we do not have a good passenger. What did we do before? A lot of good, and a lot of bad. Among other things, we have sold some successful Slovenian companies, which now operate slightly differently. One example may be the Iron Jesenice or, say, an even better example of Iskraemeca, because a new factory is now being built in the desert sand because it is obviously the goal of production from Gorenjska, from Kranj, to move somewhere warmer. I'm glad they won't be able to do what we do there. However, the measures depend heavily on how much money we have for this and on our decision on what we want to achieve. Either we teach people to fish or it's our goal, as today's most nervous ones demand, that we pick up all the fish to begin with, and then what happens will. I think it's a matter that needs to be prepared much wider. We talk a lot about this part-time thing. There is also a need to prepare solutions and to consider what those people will do when they are free. Whether this is going to be in the inn or taking advantage of the potentials and opportunities that we have in the countryside. In other words, I would like to say that a package of social measures must also be prepared. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we strongly support this social story, but order must also be made in this area. We believe that, on the one hand, social assistance is sufficient for the current situation, but they are unfairly divided. This social assistance is for some such that it is impossible to survive and is not sufficient for a decent survival. Look, a quarter of the pensioners are on the verge of poverty. On the other hand, many gain more because they know the privileges and the ratings of this system to make good use of it. The resolution of this crisis, which was first of all external and, above all, of a financial nature, and we do not have a very strong influence, we all agree, needs to be found in various areas, first of all in the area of consolidation of the financial sector. There's a few possible solutions. Today we have adopted two laws, which are absolutely solid, but their beginning of action will not be immediately. The main problem of the Slovenian economy, on the one hand, according to the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, is poor liquidity and on the other hand the inability of banks to lend adequately to the domestic, Slovenian economy. Therefore, one of our thoughts is that, if possible, the Bank of Slovenia would redirect its investments from foreign securities to domestic ones. The Treasury should issue papers, and the Government should probably recognise these papers, investments, bonds as a relief. This would certainly be one of the possible measures to focus and explore, which could have a greater impact on increasing liquidity in Slovenia. The Bank of Slovenia should therefore redirect these investments to Slovenian banks and the Slovenian banking and financial sector. We estimate that the volume of these investments can reach as much as a few billion euros, but if we know that the Bank of Slovenia's total active balance sheet is estimated at EUR 5 billion, then this can be a great opportunity and an opportunity. Banka Slovenije's capital, according to the annual reports, reaches almost a billion euros, some of the investments needed to implement the European Central Bank's monetary policy and the rest represent investments that Banka Slovenije and its capital, if possible, could be diverted to the Slovenian banking financial sector. However, the coordination of this transfer of investments by the Bank of Slovenia should be in line with the issuance of government guarantees and, in particular, the finance ministry. In addition, consideration should be given to the possibility that the Treasury Treasury would redirect its investment to the Slovenian banking and financial sector, the Government still has the opportunity to issue bonds to obtain new financial resources. This should be done at the same time as offering tax and investment reliefs for the purchase of precisely these papers, which in our view would increase the interest and interest of domestic Slovenian bond buyers. In view of the failure of the Republic of Slovenia's last bond issue, this is the only way to draw domestic investors and their savings into purchasing bonds, since it is probably difficult to seriously count on investors from abroad in these times. But the fact is, and this is a positive and good assessment, that the extent of the savings of Slovenian citizens and citizens is still above the average of the euro area. And if we were to find a compromise possibility to draw up an appropriate stimulant with sufficient tax relief and incentive, it would probably be interesting to sell such bonds. However, if we pool Banka Slovenije's investments, the Treasury Treasury and the issue of bonds could actually reach a sum of up to EUR 3 billion, which represents 10% of Slovenia's gross domestic product. This would significantly exceed and, above all, build on the effects of the laws already adopted. It seems particularly important to us that this money would have come to the Slovenian banking and financial sector earlier, in a few months, and would have helped bridge these first critical moments of the Slovenian economy. This is a possible short-term advantage over both laws, which have beneficial effects, I think will start to show in the second half of 2009. Therefore, we also supported the proposed laws in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. At the same time, of course, we are considering what solutions we can find for a shorter period of time. In addition to this proposal, it seems important for us in the parliamentary club to stress that the maximum effort is made to draw on existing EU funds. This is certainly where the government should initiate accelerated activities in order to make this happen more quickly. This is also one of the key points enshrined in the coalition agreement that we have put in the coalition agreement on the initiative of our party. Of course, it is easy to draw on European funds and, above all, we have set ourselves a number of obstacles, such as the law on public procurement. If the country itself has the problem of repeating calls from 10 to 20 times in the story of Markovac and Rebecca, then it is clear to everyone that something is very wrong in this story. And if we want to be very successful, then we're gonna have to fix these things. Not because this would be the case only to a country which certainly has the best legal experts at its disposal, since this is also happening to many Slovene municipalities, that calls for the use of funds are repeated several times, and it is not only a valuable waste of time, but it is even more important how much these legal advices, intermediary companies and payments in the Court of Auditors are costing. So we've got a lot of work to do. The first steps that this government has taken in this short time, however, according to the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, are true. If we are all less involved in collecting current political points and moving together, as we have shown unity in terms of plebiscite or the story of Croatia's entry into the European Union, then I do not think we are afraid to overcome these tight economic conditions. Of course, recession, such a fear - inspiring word, but it certainly has one positive trait. These recessions were already great during the human development period, but they all had one good point of ending. And I am sure that this will be done with the help of good measures in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposed agenda item, including the draft conclusions. The first one has the word, Mr. France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, chairman. The title of the debate we are talking about is the Government's slow action. So it's not a matter of government action, but it's too slow. Nor are we discussing measures to mitigate the consequences of the economic crisis. These effects are yet to come, as they are predicted by a drastic increase in the number of unemployed, with lower economic growth and so on. It's about preventive measures. They can't wait. Those measures that would apply for this year and are in force. And here's the problem. You're saying we've adopted two marriages today. Why, though, were these two laws flawed, distorted, and in some of the provisions disabled? It's because of the lack of time. For one month, the new government knows well and is obliged to know what the UMAR forecasts are. They are worse each month, telling us what problems are coming to us next year, and that is why we need to take action. On 26 November, we received a very good letter from the Chamber of Commerce and Business, where the proposals are very clear, consistent proposals for rapid action. And all this stuff was in the air. Everyone who wanted to hear this issue was aware of it. However, for 30 days the government dealt mainly with Rupl, Šinkovec, the replacement of control councils in Kad, the Court, the replacement of administrations, not to mention other companies and personnel prewinds. The problems we discussed today, however, have only been dealt with for the last three days of the previous week. At that time, it is impossible to harmonise employers and employees in one afternoon and reach a social agreement. That's impossible. That is why these proposals that we have adopted today are repulsed. The government has admitted it itself. It wasn't coordinated. Of course not. One afternoon, that's impossible. These are the consequences of slow action. And if we think of an old Slovenian proverb: After the morning is known, then I fear that the priorities and questions that this government will deal with quickly and effectively will be nothing more than a change in media legislation, "deleted", human resources cleaning. Yes, gentlemen, laugh, but that's all we hear for 30 days. All other problems, which are existential problems in Slovenia, may be under pressure from the opposition and the threat of an extraordinary session will be resolved at the last minute. That's not good. I hope that this general impression that I am not alone this month, but many, many Slovenians, I hope it is not true, and that next year you will pleasantly surprise me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. No, no, no. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u121	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleague and colleague! This is not about, of course, I firmly believe that it is not about the measures that we, fellow Members and fellow Members would expect, or even the measures that the opposition would expect. But it is the measures that are necessary, the necessary measures that our economy expects to take. For measures not selectively, only for some, but measures under the same conditions for all that would depend on the time when one of the business operators is affected by problems, but also needs measures. I welcome all the measures that we have already taken and adopted, including the relevant legislation, and in particular the measures that are being announced. It's mostly that I'm in a hurry to do this. According to my assessment, as soon as appropriate legislation is adopted, which will eventually also protect against unloved events in the field of employment, in the field of production, in the field of social affairs, drastic measures will be needed, which will also mean the burden of the budget, which means unemployment and then the resolution of this unemployment and the resolution of social problems in Slovenia. We have discussed for the last time what is needed in legislation, and obviously we do not have such legislation, to install a period for, as we said, for bad, for bad times. Just as our system of protection and rescue has been geared towards some of the foreseeable events that may affect us and this system needs to be reformed due to climate change and so on, so of course, unfortunately or not, it is also necessary to amend practically all legislation and adapt it to such times. However, in order to reduce taxes, which is usually not good because of the budget that feeds the life of a country, it is of course important to reduce expenditure in all areas. Companies, labour organisations, companies do this, of course, and those who plan costs well and which concern costs, of course, should be limited for investment reliefs, which must also be limited in time. In our case, public expenditure or incentives such as local incentives, investment in infrastructure and so on will, of course, need to be encouraged. When we discussed these necessary measures, we also mentioned legislation, as I said earlier, where it is necessary to put in place measures for bad times such as the Labour Relations Act, the Public Procurement Act. Our representative, Comrade Žerjav, has already mentioned all of these laws, which we expect to be recast in a short and very soon, such as the Law on Community Financing, the Law on Public Finances, with a greater possibility of endowment of municipalities and greater investment in municipalities and, of course, by allowing such and different economies to start again. This is a matter of financial or payment discipline. Above all, a small economy expects much from the state. And what has already been done today by some representatives of the parliamentary groups, including ours, mentioned agriculture, or could also say that agriculture is not involved in all these negotiations, in all these coordinations. Representatives of agriculture are not involved in this social dialogue. It is true that agriculture has a relatively small share, but it also has a small share due to long-frozen or otherwise stopped prices, and this share in agriculture is decreasing as a result. If this goes on, the words of one of the discussers will come true as we prepare for today's point of view that mineral fertilisers in agriculture will soon be used only as spices. And we must, of course, be afraid of this period. We therefore expect all these measures to be resolved as soon as possible in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u123	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! That the global financial crisis is reflected in us is also obvious. And that our banks have acted in a similar way to the European banks, including what has led to the crisis in the mortgage market without being overly clever, the prices of real estate have started to decline and, of course, the financial instruments linked to real estate have started to decline. Due to the poor investment found, there had to be a conflict between banks of interest between different banks, which have started to cancel mutual loans and which are still necessary for bank liquidity. And so is Slovenian. State guarantees are certainly guaranteed to savers and credit institutions, which does not mean that we have now solved all the problems that await us. It is clear that there will be a reduction or even a halt to speculative constructions, that those companies that have been "streaking" at the expense of the state will also have to start thinking about restructuring, opening up jobs with added value or shutting down the company. I would not exactly agree with those who say that it is only necessary to support well-standing companies, because we know that they are few in Slovenia. However, there are more people who employ the majority of the working population, and this crisis has beset them, and with the help of the State it would be a normal experience. Here, in particular, I miss concrete proposals for improvements by the Chamber of Commerce and, of course, trade unions. It is unfair to speak only in the interests of one or the other. It is now necessary to think in the interests of workers to keep jobs and also to open new ones. The measures must be such that they are also effective for a short period of time. See, poverty must not only be solved through social transfers, but must be tackled by opening up new jobs. Young people need to be provided with work and housing in the place where they live. I miss the development of a small economy in small municipalities that have stagnated in some way since they were established, and no one has noticed from the country. I think it's necessary to imagine and point out the mayor who's ruling and doing nothing in the direction of developing a small economy. We are also somewhat forgetting farmers who have their farms in water protection areas. They were all very successful, employed by family members, with new legislation threatening the collapse of farms and the loss of jobs; leaving the municipalities to the mercy and unhappiness of this farm is extremely irresponsible. They need to be helped immediately and effectively, for speaking and promises have not produced any results so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u125	Your Honor! I thought I missed something that month when I wasn't here, but I can see that now is the time for the establishment of the working presidency, especially when we get a table schedule, and then there's something else. I am talking mainly about the presentation of parliamentary groups, not so much about the order of the Members. The other day, it was an eclectic violation of the rules of procedure, but I didn't want to answer. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, yeah, well, that's the way it is. It's gotta be the same for everyone. [[....]] But when we talk about this item in the agenda, we can see from different perspectives why it was necessary to include this point in an emergency meeting of the National Assembly and what the objectives and expectations of both the applicants and the public and all those involved in these matters are. The fact is that many measures for many are too late and will never work because they have already been affected by various problems and will not be taken by the measures that this Parliament will take, or by the government, or by banks and other institutions that can help. Of course, on the other hand, it is important to note once again that there are many measures to be taken in the way of "hitting slowly" and not taking measures overnight that could put into further difficulty a wide variety of entities or whole industries. Of course, I believe in measures, those that work, horizontal, and work at everything. At the moment when it comes to favouring one or the other, the question is, of course, whether they are fair or right and whether they will work. I am sure that the measures must work both in those who are successful and have not yet been hit by the economic crisis and may not be, but at a time when the crisis threatens, they should be encouraged to draw faster than those who are chronically in trouble. Today there was a speech here that we could not give to industries, to companies that had already received recent aid, but to do so in any other way, and perhaps only to be listed for state aid. I believe that it is possible, through what the Government has already proposed and is planning, to provide appropriate frameworks beyond the possibilities we have within the country and under the conditions of the European Union. I believe myself, and today there was a speech here that some banks have money, but they don't give it, they don't monitor the economy and so on. The fact is - at least as it is understood - that some of these causes are at home, but there are many of them also outside and that in the interbank, interstate market, we are probably not the first to be in group 3a with a rating of 2a. Not to take this into account and to think that we can do some things overnight, it seems to me an unreasonable expectation. I believe that no one expected that within six months there would be some diagrams that appeared in this room on various televisions and so on, that they would change so dramatically - and they did! There have been, the conditions have changed and, of course, we need to act here today and tomorrow. That is how this meeting happened with this point, which cannot be reversed and corrected earlier, but I believe that within three weeks so quickly - as was the case with these two laws and with the debates that were also in the relevant committees in the National Assembly on certain measures that did not happen and not necessarily happen through laws - - is a good sign, but I believe that both the public and the opposition will be a just and very strict judge when these measures show up and will be seen, as they say here today, whether they have been caught or what is possible with the warnings that they have been, will not happen and will be later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u126	Thank you very much. With regard to the order of the presentation of the positions of the members of the groups, let me explain that I was presented with the idea that a change had taken place between the material we had received from Members and Members to the bench and that which had been written to the Chair because the agenda items had been changed at the meeting and then the sequence was changed accordingly as to how the presentation was to take place. Just for an explanation. I know that we have received Members and Members of Parliament in a different order, but we have also changed the order of the points at today's meeting, and changes are also appropriate. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor now.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, distinguished ministers, distinguished presidents, colleagues, colleagues! I accept today's debate, although I know, even if we were to conclude now slowly, we would not do anything good, but we would help the government so that we could continue its work in other rooms as soon as possible. However, I expect debates, such as have begun to go mainly in the direction of political convictions or the accumulation of political points. And I must say that the distinguished Mr France Tsukati, who was the predecessor in front of me, has begun to have such a tone that he reigns in this month since he was in power, has done nothing but deal with Rupl and Mr Shinkovec. But that's not the case. I was watching TV and newspapers where I saw how the Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, how they met with the social partners, coordinated positions and did not staff, as you said before. Here I have the information that one director was replaced, who was due, this was at the New Ljubljana Bank, Mr Veselinovic, and I do not see any other replacements. There's been a switch where the mandates have expired, but let's just leave it. The fact is that the global financial crisis has also entered Slovenia through the door. Even though some members of the opposition have recently tried to convince us that the crisis is not that Slovenia is not in recession, yet our economy has and feels negative effects. The latest data from the UMAR are no longer as encouraging as they were a week ago. However, in the light of the early response to the current and upcoming economic risks, the government also gave up hundreds of days of peace, which are not necessarily necessary, but I think that the ministerial assembly has found a realistic picture in its areas of work. That's why the criticism of the opposition that the government acted too slowly is inappropriate for my notions. Finally, the proposed measures put into procedure by the Government talk about this. However, I agree that this matter must be taken seriously and with full responsibility. When it is too slow and what is the fastest-to-take measure is likely to be difficult to predict, not only to this government, but also to any economic advisors. Of course, analysis needs to be first prepared, at the same time the situation needs to be recorded and actions presented on the basis of this. And when the government probably recorded the situation, it was easy to see that some laws had been passed in the previous year, which would have a financial impact this year, so that they probably had a room of manoeuvre to promote economic growth less than they originally expected. However, we know that the economic situation is changing from week to week, but unfortunately in a negative direction. Therefore, the measures presented by the Government to the social partners and, for my understanding, the best measure, which has a social dimension, is that it is intended to prevent redundancies in companies, since the Government will finance contributions and part of wages to companies that will agree with employees to reduce working time with a flat-rate amount of 6 months. I think that this measure is good, but of course the employer will also commit himself not to forgive. The second measure adopted by the Government today and confirmed by the National Assembly is the Tax Procedure Act. Finally, it is €50 million that will help liquidity companies in difficulty. The Income Act is also going this way. Thirdly, with the recapitalisation of the Bank's SID and the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, the government will be more likely to credit businesses. If these measures are "taken" then it is likely that the next wave of measures will be easier to survive. Of course, the government will also have to deal with domestic banks, especially in this direction, so that these banks will release money because we know that the money is not in circulation and that our economy also has liquidity problems. Conservativeism at this time probably won't be the real thing. Of course, without joint action, without social dialogue, which the Government has already successfully carried out, without good management and without cooperation between the opposition and the position will not work. And I believe that Slovenia will come as little as possible in the coming year despite all the problems. I want the government to have a good trip! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and honourable Members! I cannot agree with the conclusion of some that this point is today a mini-interpellation of the new government. The purpose of this extraordinary meeting by the opposition was, above all, to identify the current government with the tax laws that had already been tabled in the parliamentary procedure by the government of Mr Janez Janša and some other proposed measures. It is important that the year expires and our wish is that these measures will continue to apply for 2008, because otherwise they would lose their positive impact and not achieve their purpose - this is to mitigate the negative consequences of the global economic crisis. Today, this was partially achieved by the adoption of the new Income Law, as it is said, only for a certain part, is said to be s.p., but not for companies. The expected economic growth for this year is still positive, and companies have therefore generated quite a few profits. Instead of paying it into the state budget, I would probably rather direct it to new investments and possible restructuring, which could also be achieved by amending the Law on corporate income tax. So, by lowering tax rates. The old Slovenian proverb says it makes sense to save when you have something else. And here I see the point: by taking measures we would help businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, to maintain a good condition in times of crisis by making them easier and lower tax rates. As has already been said several times, changes would have added financial effects, including a clear message to economic operators, what benefits and conditions of management they will have in the coming years, which is the basis for their business decisions. I also welcome the Government's measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis. Among other things, as I have been looking at government materials now, the draft law on subsidising reduced working time provides for an impact assessment of €21.6 million, which I believe is a low figure, given the importance of this measure. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President of the Government, ministers, fellow Members! It was a little fun to get this invitation to today's meeting of the National Assembly, and a rather interesting diction of this invitation. I think it's kind of a precedent, actually. Today we are discussing a proposal for conclusions on the Government's slow action and so on and so forth. The text itself already contains the entire programme. It is only 30 days after the appointment of this government; not 100 days later, after 30 days, what the predecessor called a small interpretation of the government appears. Well, that's interesting! On the one hand, the measures are too slow, and on the other hand we have heard from Mr Tsukjati that the Government has dealt mainly with human resources issues, irrelevant issues and so on. But, fellow Members, the human resources issue is unfortunately, also due to the recruitment of the previous government, one of the key problems of this government's accession and accession to the main economic themes. Why? Look, I come from an economically very interesting region. That's Primorska. The coastal-Kraška region is, by all indicators and in development, another Slovenian region, immediately for the central Slovenian region. The whole of Primorska was and is still a region with interesting prospects for economic indicators. But today, there is concern in this region too, and that is a great one. In these days, we hear that in Luka Koper, in the vastness of our maritime transport, the numbers indicate perhaps a serious crisis. In the Intereuropa, the second major of our infrastructure part of the economy, we hear that things are worrying. The hit in Gorica is failing. So, the pillars of the coastal economy in the coming years, perhaps already in this mandate, will be plunged into their own crisis. And why? Well, let's see what happened in the previous term. I would not be so generous, Mr President of the Government, until the previous government. The former government has achieved, managed to achieve inflation, which has been record in the European Union, not only because of objective problems, but also because we did not know how to prevent certain things in those four years. I still remember today in 2005, when Mr Gaspari was lynched because before his appointment as governor on simulations, he proved that there could be a situation where inflation would be the same as it was. And he was a national traitor back then. This has happened in the previous government. And in the previous government, there was, above all, rude political recruitment. Luka Koper, Intereuropa, Hit are stories that are all very well known. And today we have the results. Staffing, which is highly political, since the Presidents of the administration are members of the SDS party, since the main supervisors are mainly members of SDS or local branches or allies, are in fact proving today that they were not able to manage those companies. So, Mr Cukjat, I wonder whether it is also a question of whether we will continue with such incompetent, non-professional staffing, including some of the infrastructure, the reforms we are looking for, or the interventions we are looking for. Look, in Luka Koper these days, very serious things are going on; in the next few days this will be talked about. The day before yesterday, they tried to sell shares in Inter-European, but then they withdrew this proposal. But the desire was to sell the share of Inter-Europeans, privatize it, allow the Intereuropa to privatise it more quickly, to be bought out by foreign companies, probably, or to take it over with the hostile takeover of another company. While they no longer have liquidity in Luka Koper themselves, they wanted to sell their shares. They're not liquid, they're in charge of wages. And 100 million have been spent on investments in the last year, which are still questionable. They are questionable, perhaps even from the point of view of the anti-corruption commission. We, with the initiative, some Members from the Coast, have demanded an effective audit. I will not accuse anyone, but we want a review, we want transparency of business. And when this audit is done, it may be clear why we are coming too late. Really, I agree, maybe this government is running too slow. I should have made sure to establish a normal situation for normal business first. There was another phenomenon in Isola. Phenomenon Mehana. Once a top-of-the-line company, it's in liquidation today. There will be 150 workers left on the road in January. Why? Because they couldn't work? No! No! Because someone sent production to China. And why did he send production to China? Because the quality deteriorated and then they lost orders because he had these options because all our legislation allows various speculators to do so. And because maybe someone wanted to change the destination of those lands where the company was located and so on. Tomorrow we'll have drug workers on the road. You see, fellow Members! These are sins that come from far away. They come not only from the time of your government, but also from previous times, no doubt. Well, the guilt here is not unilateral. And in the end, we'll think about it. We're in the recession phase, we're coming into a very complicated state. There's been a lot of talk about foreign political issues lately and a lot of controversy about it. But I think that at a time when we need opportunities for investment, new markets, new opportunities in an environment where we can establish ourselves as an economic operator, it is one responsible smart policy that opens up these opportunities. This is how I expect and I am sure that our government will take this into account, today with two necessary laws. I know the government has ruined the feeling of the opposition who obviously wanted to use this day to prove that everything was nice and right and that now the government is working too slowly. No! No! The government has proven something, something very specific. That fight about the order was very eloquent. You wanted to talk about this earlier, and then you wanted to talk about the government's actions. Well, this attempt failed. The fact is that the Government has proved something concrete and that it will also have to continue working in the sense of establishing some normal state of affairs for the rehabilitation of those companies that may fail and with them may collapse entire regions such as Primorska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Tuck Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u133	Thank you. Well, my former colleague Yuri didn't understand me very well. I didn't bother with personnel replacements, personnel cleaning. These will continue, as we know, even next year. No one can stop you from doing that. I was just saying that these personnel replacements could wait for at least another month, but the government would be dealing with these fundamental Slovenian problems, and not only today, five minutes before 12, but the last possible day for the law to be passed, we had it in Parliament today. Tomorrow it would be too late, the measures would not apply for 2008. And due to lack of time, no social agreement has been reached, because, in five minutes, one afternoon of the social agreement on important issues cannot be reached. I have challenged this; what is the title of the topic "Too slow action"; the government has acted, but in our view too slowly. If you feel that such behavior is normal in crisis situations, then this is your problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u134	Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr Vice President. The Honourable President of the Government. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Personally, I do not mind putting today's item on the agenda, because it has helped us get even more information on how the government is taking steps to avoid all the negative impact of the crisis ahead of us. It also confirms that in this space we are all in fact united, all of us with some great sense of responsibility see that next year and in the coming period we will make such moves and content that will help to resolve the crisis ahead of us. Otherwise, with the crisis falling out of the sky, it is necessary to take it. We'll take it, and I hope with as little pain as possible and shake through it, we'll come out. Even if it is such a negative thing, it has something good, it is never so bad that it could not be worse. However, when we are talking about the crisis and the time ahead, it seems to me that the Government has very cleverly set up these measures, which we have already taken today. I am confident that at the next meeting, we will still have a package for reception and that this will be the case throughout the year. It is also important, on the other hand, that the Government looks well at the actions of all the countries of the European Union, as those measures taken by Chancellor Merklov and related to the automotive industry are also indirectly linked to our automotive industry, which is taking place in Slovenia. So it is probably very clever to wait a little for some things and then round up the content so that it can be complete and one that will produce results. It seems important to me that the Government will see that if the crisis is a burden to be borne by the Slovenian State, this burden will be divided equally into all segments of our country. Well, there's no way to let anyone go. If we're gonna tighten the belt, then we're all gonna tighten it. However, with some sense and some subtlety, it is necessary to tighten the belts of those most vulnerable groups of populations that already have a tight belt to the end, and probably those on the edge of social security, and not least, there are pensioners, because I am speaking as a member of DeSUS. With this care, and not least with the care that has already been mentioned today, it is a matter of regions that are slightly less developed. And it is likely that those regions will be affected by government moves and actions that are likely to affect the developed regions differently. It is also likely that there should be a certain feeling and that measures should be organised, subordinated or monitored in order not to cause further problems to those underdeveloped, less developed regions, of which Koroška is certainly one. In the case of even distribution, I cannot go beyond the fact that there are financial institutions here, there are banks that sometimes or very often behave quite macholy to all of this, especially to the economy and to the launch of money for its development. In fact, all the components, the financial structure, the economic mix, the work package, the social transfers, I think, are important. But I also think it's very important to invest in investment and technological development. Even if the crisis is such or different, it seems to me that this is the path to finding a way out of this crisis. Here, perhaps a little criticism to some ministries too Look, no time is right for the crisis, but if it had to come, then it came in at the most favourable time: the government is young, the government is ambitious, the crisis is taking on a challenge, and not least there is a financial perspective of the European Union and there are some other means and throughout the sermon it seems to me that the transition through the crisis will be easier than if the crisis hit us sooner or later. [[...]] However, this criticism for some ministries should be in this direction, from the point of view of local communities, which we are also very much applying for calls, we are getting European money for development, for investing in technology parks, network incubators and all this technology or technological development. We often have major difficulties with the calls, with the very bureaucratic behaviour of some services in the ministries, because in the end, we should always look at these services in such a way that if some money is meant for development and for some incentive to the Slovenian economy and Slovenian development, then we should look at how some of the projects we report will "go through as quickly as possible" and approve the means as quickly as possible to make things happen on the ground of the vehicle. Not to look at where the traps are, where are the bureaucratic obstacles that can twist our applications and reject them negatively, and so on, a little more attention, a little more help and a little more cooperation should be. [[...]] And it's probably not just local communities, it's probably someone else from the economy. So I have nothing against this point that was today. We've heard a lot of things from the government, too. The public will probably also get a positive opinion, the government is ready, it is prepared, and I wish it much success in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. In the Slovenian National Party, we support any measures that will contribute, ensure the security and protection of the Slovenian economy and thus indirectly the Slovenes and Slovenians. I would personally touch something else where I have concerns, reservations, or fear that things will not run so smoothly. This is mainly the case with regard to the criteria themselves, then the implementation of dynamic measures and also the transparency of the implementation of measures. You know, we Slovenians are somewhere quite susceptible to political clientism, we still want to share in black, red, left, right and so on and in the implementation of these measures, so that there is no coincidence that this CEO is ours, this is theirs, in this supervisory board of this company are ours, there are theirs. In this company, we have "determined debts from pre-election times" and so on. These are matters that the Government must have before its eyes, and I hope that it will take care of transparency, internal control and that the public will also be informed of the decisions. As far as the criteria are concerned. It is already nice that the government requires, say, economic operators who will not forgive for business reasons that will not share rewards, fees, supervisors and so on - such as, say, they will be able to get something out of this little subsidy, loans and so on. I'd like to expand it back. So, businesses and supervisors who have already shared, because many have already distributed unjustifiable rewards, fees and even fired workers so that they are not even entitled to it. However, between the criteria themselves, I cannot even mention the social moment and any other criteria that certain undertakings have and should be taken into account by economic operators. In doing so, I mean mainly, for example, in my region, the economic operator Mura. There is hardly a region where, for example, one economic operator contributes as much to the development of one region or as much to social stability and peace in a particular region as we do. As much as we can talk about any social stability and peace. In order not to forget, let's say that in this company in a less distant past, a state small share of foreign currency was filled, which at the time was of paramount importance to the Slovenian economy. These are all the moments that must now be taken into account when taking into account the criteria for granting aid. In addition, this company is at the door of organizational restructuring and is as vulnerable as it is particularly vulnerable and needs help and so on so that I will not be too long about one company. There was too little talk about agricultural operators as well. Let us be aware that it is a good, successful agricultural company, we can say, an establishment to run today is even more difficult than a s.p. Thus, we do not say much about how to encourage or protect agricultural establishments so that they do not continue to sell. In my region, they fail unrestrainedly, and I therefore ask that the Government also take into account the fact that, for example, the measures include agricultural establishments, namely those in which they are expected to have a perspective, because their conditions are extremely difficult. If we look at it this way, for example, running an agricultural plant is more difficult than a s.p. that works there, as we said today, in a graphic way, plastic cups or something like that. In addition, agricultural establishments have huge restrictions, prices of basic assets, sprinklers, mineral fertilisers and so on are steadily rising. On the other hand, they have tied hands for sale, at prices. Contingents from food imports are completely out of control; they are said to have a limit in their operations. I don't think we can let that out of our sight. We trust the Government that it will also take account of agricultural establishments when granting subsidies and any other assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u139	Good evening, Mr Vice President, distinguished ministers, colleagues, colleagues. I think it is right that we are talking about the financial economic crisis today, the whole world is talking about it, and I think that it was also the main intention of the applicants to find out what is best, to agree on it, and - as we are already in difficult times in Slovenia - we also come out of this crisis stronger than we have in the past. Therefore, let us not be wasting our time and seek too much politics in this matter. The financial crisis is a crisis of global dimensions, which, as we have found, has been caused and is the main causes outside our country, and we certainly do not get over us, but we can be united that it has been caused by some way of underregulation of the country on the one hand, on the other, by many, especially financial products that have slowed down the global economy. Perhaps some overexpenditure countries are also part of the cause of as much trouble as we have. And from this I think that we can all draw together a lesson that first speaks about what we have already heard today by Minister Gaspari, that today normally operates mainly state banks, para-State financial institutions. I think that we should also thank in Slovenia for having these financial institutions to a large extent also in state ownership, that we are not in any deeper crisis than we are today. Similarly today, it has been found that the economic substance is also the basis that you can count on at the most difficult times. There were already mentioned sales of Sij, Iskraemeco, in the past sold Lek, a third of Ljubljana Bank, were attempts to build other plants, Austrians. The attempt to sell Litostroj I hope that in this crisis we have now found that it is still important that this economic and financial substance is also the basis of the country to a large extent in our property, because in difficult times, as we have data today, some foreign banks that are based on us do not do anything other than collect money and spend it very little in Slovenia, but with high interest "touch" it from the pockets of Slovenians and this money is used to mitigate this crisis elsewhere. I support what the Government has also done to address this crisis through broad social dialogue. This crisis is going to hurt a lot of people. The one who has the securities or the one who loses the job. That is why I think it is essential that this is done in such a way as to avoid any unnecessary problems within our country - we see that they are already in some kind of unrest somewhere in the world. I think it's a very serious signal coming from somewhere else, and it's also a place for those who might want such unrest. That's why I support it. I support what has been said today that agriculture is involved in this social dialogue and I think that, at least in recent years, it is clear to us that food supply is a national interest. In this part I also support these measures, which, on the one hand, should have, I do not know, financial effects, rapid payments of subsidies by the Agency and, on the other hand, proactively in what modern measures such as the construction of irrigation systems, investments in agriculture, the economy, also in forestry, require biomass and similar matters. Even in the restructuring food industry, this proactive development part of this programme is possible. When we think about and want to make a contribution to this work in the Slovenian People's Party, and we welcome these social measures, which are certainly urgent, we feel that there is still a need to make time for this reflection to address these bolder measures, these development measures that we will certainly need. Because in addition to financing the economy, the main problem is this reduced demand both at home and mainly in exports. We would like to draw our attention once again to this investment relief. We are giving a suggestion if we can even consider some degressive scale, which means that in the first year as soon as possible it would be the easiest way to really start an immediate investment, but in two, three years we may lower this rate so that in some way we can also invest in larger companies, which - we want or do not want - are in addition to the smaller dynamic work and the pillar of the Slovenian economy. It is also very important for us to point out that this crisis is present throughout the country and it would therefore be very good for us to also generate this spending in the country through regionally dispersed investments, which are quick to make. Here we think that the congregations are a very appropriate environment. We have no other level of local self-government - the provinces, so it is possible to arrange a lot of things through municipal investment. Slovenia has a great deal to do in the field of environmental policy, in the area of construction of sewerage systems, regulating watercourses, storm drains. Here we think that municipalities can play important roles and at the same time benefit from these necessary European funds, which can also generate this consumption in our space. Similarly, we think that, after careful consideration of this long-term investment and the use of this money, it is also necessary to focus on energy efficiency measures that we will be able to meet more quickly on the one hand - the sharp criteria that we have adopted - and, on the other hand, to alleviate the pressure on electricity consumption and on our environment in particular. One of the important areas we are assessing is housing policy. What has been the maximum in our space for the last few years to solve all housing problems is not true, and therefore I think that a coordinated policy in the field of both the State Housing Fund and the municipalities must be accelerated or the purchase of housing or thus the development of housing, the work of our people and, on the other hand, the resolution of social housing. In dealing with the difficult situation, I wish the Government and all of us a great deal of wisdom, courage, good decisions. I am confident that there will still be a need for a meeting in the National Assembly and that we will only take time to do this important task.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Please, please, can I help you? [[Ad in the background.]] Here you go, Mr. Visac.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Much has been said, including the relatively limited financial framework available both now and in the coming period for this conflict with the consequences - those already visible and those not yet visible - of this economic crisis. I think that most of these assessments are based on two assumptions, which do not necessarily have to be held in full. The first assumption is a smooth continuation of the public sector wage reform system. After several years, if not even a few decades of negotiations with the public sector unions, there has been agreement and a gradual implementation of this reform. We were faced with a relatively surprising paradox. Indeed, no one, like the members of the current coalition and the previous opposition, is satisfied with this reform, but we will cost us several hundred million euros, 500, 600 million euros and similar estimates. I don't even know exactly how much, because the Ministry of Finance estimates have changed depending on whether government or opposition circles have been looking for them. And I think it would be worth considering: in such times that have changed, I say, negotiations have been held and concluded at a time when no one has anticipated such a profound dimension and the consequences of this crisis. Indeed, the negotiations ended and also ended more than half a year ago, and no one had anticipated that this could, after all, be bad or even difficult for the coming year 2009. I also ask or propose the possibility of opening a discussion with the public sector unions on a different dynamic in the implementation of wage reform in the public sector. That, through deepening and day-to-day information, how this crisis is exacerbated, in particular in the real sector, in some way also sits at the table with those who are obviously not to be reached to almost any extent. So why don't you sit back at the table and open that question? And here's my question to the government. Did she do so during the time she took on this responsibility? I am convinced that the reform of the wage system in the public sector has been needed and successfully completed. That the dynamics in the implementation of wage changes in the public sector were determined on the basis of certain assumptions in force at the time of this determination. This is a year ago, two years ago, and so forth, but now in the second half of this year things have changed dramatically. And believe me, I almost see no reason to have opposition problems with any of the amendments if they were consistent with the social partners. I am not talking about cancelling the agreements reached, I am not talking about substantial changes in the agreements reached, I am talking about a slightly changed dynamic in the implementation of the agreements reached. So, maybe at some time of six months, a year, I don't know, it's a matter of negotiation, which we would add or include these necessary supplements, which follow from the last Constitutional Court rulings and so on. I think it's worth a try. And I'll be happy to hear from you if anything has been done on this subject. This is the first wrong assumption that this package will cost so much. I also spoke to some of them earlier in the Income Act when someone said that this would amount to EUR 50 million in the economy. This is a liquidity burden, not a burden as such, because the burden will only be known because of the difference in interest. The second assumption, where I also think it is wrong and which led, according to my assessment, this government, that it did not positively define itself to the proposed amendment of the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, is that the computer has a financial impact on some fiscal year 2006 for which data are known and this has been extrapolated in 2008. I am convinced that the scope of these taxes and the tax consequences of these proposed changes are significantly lower in the coming period. Therefore, this assessment of the so high financial implications of introducing taxes on corporate income tax or tax relief is also excessive and that the income assessment is also excessive to EUR 50 million. I think it's going to be much less -- we'll see. But I'm used to it. And this has been a criticism to all the finance ministers so far. Criticism or, as I would say - some conservative - planners, commends the fact that the financial forecasts have always been significantly more conservative than they have proved to be in the real world. When we adopted various tax laws, there was significantly more black paint, which means what this actually reflected in practice. And so, Prime Minister, I think the numbers that scare you may also be a little too strongly predicted and based on some numbers that are not entirely merciless for next year. And there's something else I'd like to say. I think that measures that are tax burdensome for the economy, in addition to being most appropriate in times of crisis, are measures that bring money back to the cash register in the long term. In fact, if we believe - and I personally believe, but I believe that many people here do not see it in such a way - that some tax relief only helps to some investment and development activity, which, as a result, also brings a tenth or two to economic growth, then we know that some tax also comes back from this, both on the taxes of all employees and on contributions, as well as on the last VAT, because of this development, something has to be paid, and not least on the income tax of legal persons. So, in the medium term, such loads bring some things back. And all the financiers so far, unfortunately, are looking very staticly at this, through one financial year: yes, if we introduce tax reliefs, we will have such a failure in 2009 – the end, the end. And no matter what it brings back in two years, three years, four years, or whatever it brings back and how much it brings back. And when we think about it and when we analyze these measures, it would be appropriate to have that in mind. Why am I saying this? Because if there are consequences, no one wants to, after 1 January this economic crisis is also strong in the social field - I hope you will understand that if we ever say that we have proposed anything, but that it has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u143	First, about the second warning. The government will draw up a budget rebalancing and, if we want to have sustainable public finances, we need to make sure that the budget is proposed by covering on the expenditure side the expectations on the revenue side. To achieve this, we will use the promised fiscal rules that we have presented at the inauguration of the new government. Therefore, the Government will have clear programme priorities for the preparation of the budget rebalancing, which will lead to the recovery of the economic and financial crisis, and then the National Assembly will be able to assess whether, with the social partners with whom we are conducting the in-depth dialogue, we have found sufficient understanding that, by reducing the tax burdens, we can also have a balanced budget and a programme-oriented budget within the framework of the aspirations that we are all talking about today. About the first thing you mentioned, mag. The viscous, and the next. At the last government meeting, we began a discussion on the sustainability of wage reform in the public sector. At the next government meeting, we will take a decision on how public sector officials and directors will receive, say, lower incomes than this reform envisages. We'll be able to take this with a conclusion. The second thing, bigger and more important, is dialogue with the social partners. We agree with Minister Krebs that this week we will prepare a plan to negotiate with the public sector's unions in order to reach an agreement on, say, a slow pace of implementation of the new pay system, which will be financially sustainable. We have a situation in which wage growth in the public sector in the coming year is almost once faster than wage growth in the real sector. Common sense suggests that this is impossible and that this could happen, apart from understanding trade unions in the public sector, to the likely criticism of all other trade unions, particularly those in the real sector. So we are aware that implementation dynamics need to be slowed down. We need the consent of the social partners to do this. A few discussions and a lot of patience will be needed to achieve the preference of trade unions in the public sector. However, I imagine, even on the basis of my first conversation with them, that, like all the other unions, they understand the situation in which Slovenia is, and that there will be some agreement that will be reasonable and will, despite being suspended for six years in the indexing of their salaries and allowing, in some way, Slovenia to fulfil the conditions for entry into the euro area, then under Minister Virant, to reach an agreement that now envisions such growth as that which is insufferable in view of the situation that we are witnessing to them, together with the Government, will show sufficient understanding to conclude a new agreement on a slower implementation of the wage system that will allow public financial sustainability.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u145	Thank you very much. That is the very answer I am grateful for which I have been encouraged by another thought or suggestion. While it is difficult for me to imagine that you will intervene in salaries in the public sector and in management positions without prejudice to agreed solutions, with the social partners of a coordinated solution. But anyway. However, I would like to refer to those measures that are within your purview, and I think you've gone to the brink. The upper edge. And that's for the ministers' salaries. As far as I know, you've assigned all the ministers to the highest pay grade. For these ministers sitting here today, wages are, in my opinion, too low, because they face, as I would say, not least unique and also very difficult dilemmas and problems. However, it is likely that someone would have judged the severity of the problems and the extent to which they were solved in another group. We had this in our previous term. I ask you: Would it not also be appropriate to take a little look here and start with this approach that we have heard?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u146	Mr. President of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u147	The ministerial assembly was paid in the same way as the previous one, in the same pay grade, 64. I can tell my colleagues that they are doing their best and very committed. However, if such a demonstration is required, almost negligible for public finances, we will also intervene after that and reduce the level of wage class of the ministerial assembly. But you need to know one thing - not now in order to make you angry, that sooner or later we will also get to some of the things that concern Members and Members of the National Assembly. I will also propose, inter alia, a re-half of the time given to the Member after the expiry of the mandate. Nor will this be a real effect that would significantly burden public finances. It will be a demonstration effect, so that political and economic elites share fate with those most oppressed. The ministerial assembly will do its part, I expect when there is a proposal for a demonstration effect that will address the status of Members in order to equally favour and support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! When I read the address of today's meeting and then the justification and the reasons for today's meeting, I certainly could not have avoided the feeling that the purpose or then the proposers for this meeting was to show that if Mr Janš's government were still in power, action would, of course, be much faster. For the text and the reasons clearly follow that during the time of the government, John Janša acted in such a way as to drain both honey and milk. We, who have been monitoring this work all the time in the National Assembly in the previous term, know that this is not the case, so the title itself is not surprising. For the title itself speaks of the judgment already pronounced. This means that Mr Pahor's government is taking action too slowly. Today, by ministers, the Strategic Economic Council clearly explained what measures the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing. And I'm the one who's been monitoring predictions about the very inflatable financial balloon, not only in Slovenian conditions, but in global conditions, and that this balloon is going to break once. That's what happened. Unfortunately, at the time, many did not hear it, and he was unprepared. There is a feeling that we are now trying to fill the balloon very quickly on the other side. How quickly it is necessary, sometimes recklessly, to regulate things so that we can also take measures that will not provide the right solution. I am pleased with the measures presented by both the President of the Government and ministers. And I must say, in these short weeks, the government is clearly aware of the constraints placed before it. We have also very clearly warned the previous government of these restrictions in the past period. We have made it very clear that certain measures need to be implemented very carefully and with a significantly longer period of validity, without any serious consequences when faced with the implementation of these measures. They've already been listed here by their colleagues today. They did not list all of them, but, as we are saying here today, it is difficult to predict all the financial consequences, all the consequences that we will have in the real sector, so we have also warned that today it is not possible to take, at this point, all the measures that someone would consider necessary. Finally, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Chamber of Commerce, has presented a broad range of measures that we would like. But on the other hand, we also have the restrictions and measures proposed by the unions. And here is a new dimension that this government brings, that is, the advice of those who act and propose measures and consultation with those who will also have to carry out the consequences and measures, namely social dialogue. And this dimension of social dialogue certainly takes time, because the measures taken can be very quickly in the face of unforeseen consequences. And if we just remember how underestimating the attitude towards social dialogue, to those who have warned that some of the solutions proposed by the previous government are not correct, we can recall the type of statements made by both the Prime Minister and ministers in these arrangements and talks. The warnings we are hearing here today are very clear: the limitations on debt financing are not small. And I have always welcomed the conservativeness of the policies of the previous governments, both to debt and to the sale of state property. And today, when the former Prime Minister of the Government said that we still have a very large range, up to 60%, of the Stability Pact criterion, there is actually thanks to such politicians, because, if not, today we would not have this manoeuvre space. I am alone in committing ourselves to a very wise, weighed and that the measures that we will take will also have real irreversible effects. That is why I also place my heart on the Government that all the measures that we are going to confirm in the National Assembly, which the Government will implement, are carried out by a very careful monitoring system and that it will have clear criteria for how to measure the effects of the measures taken. I come from a region that has a high level of unemployment, and here we expect enormously from an effective active employment policy, one of the very important measures that will help alleviate the social distress of people who are or are employed for a certain period of time in sectors threatened with forgiveness, or who are already unemployed. That is why I am joining all those who have said today that measures must also be selective in relation to regions that will deal with, say, specific problems in relation to the history of events. At this conclusion, I can only say that, it is good that today this meeting has taken place, that the Government has had a clear opportunity to answer what it is doing, has put in place measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis that have been presented here today, and they are also recorded in the document. I just want you to continue to be effective in proposing the following measures, which I am sure will also need to be adopted and will have an appropriate impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kolarich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues, colleagues! When he was a magician a few moments ago. The visceral rushed into the order of the debaters, I thought [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u152	Can I warn you, please? He did not come forward, but I gave him my word because, under the Rules of Procedure, he has the right at any time to ask for the word of both the representative of the applicants and the representative of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u153	I'm sorry. However, I thought he would discuss that the Government's actions were not timely, but timely and that he would propose, on behalf of the applicants, that we talk about this. However, personally, I must say that I was awkwardly surprised when I received the convening of this meeting or the point on the irregular action of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, we have been hearing about timelessness since the elections, we have not been able to establish the right time, we have not been able to establish ourselves, we have not been able to form the Government, we have been preparing the coalition treaty too slowly, we have been slow to take action and so on. This mantra is repeating itself, and I think it will be repeated until the next election. I do not believe in the well-intention of the proponents and I support the Government and the conclusions we have adopted today on the Committee on Finance, so I trust the Government that it will also prepare the next measures on the basis of an in-depth analysis, not as it has so far been ad hoc, as adopted in the previous government, but on the basis of financial sustainability. Future measures are expected to be taken on the basis of financial sustainability and I hope that we will meet with them as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Government, Ministers, Members and Members. I am very pleased that a number of measures have taken place at the table today when we proposed to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. However, I am certainly not impressed by the order of things, because we are discussing in the end, but we have taken our conclusions in the beginning. I think it's just like if a farmer went to feed a cow from behind and we should give it milk instead of from the front, because we know it's the right way. The second thing I would like to stress is very important - investment relief. Yes, we've received investment relief today, but I can't understand, somehow we have three tall guests among us from the Chamber of Commerce to defend that the s.p.-s get relief, d.o.o.-is not getting relief. And they have the same d.o.o.-s and s.p.-s in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. That'll be the biggest problem tomorrow, maybe we'll decide we'll have a follow-up session tomorrow. The second thing, which is very important and in great honour, seems to me to have been devoted to the EUR 35 million additional investment in the Slovenian Enterprise Fund. This is very good, but you know, we need to extend this year's actual list of these members who are already on the Slovenian Enterprise Fund to come up with funds, because if we put these funds back on call, six, seven months will pass and when we talk about this economic recession, the economic recession will already be with us. Then the question was, there was not a word between the measures about agriculture. I think agriculture needs measures, too. Then this measure, too, is about payment deadlines. If the country has a payment deadline of seven or thirty days, believe that this will also create a better payment discipline in Slovenia than it is now, when some companies have even one hundred and fifty days or how [[...]] What worries me, too, is that we did not end up talking about the proposal to lower the salaries of managers, where the country is 50 per cent or the majority owner, as well as the supervisory boards in these companies. We have two-thirty supervisory councils, I think two-thirty administrations and a supervisory council. I don't see why. I would expect some action in these matters, too. So I would end by concluding that I will not be too long, that I think that you will call a meeting again as soon as possible, that we can make proposals and that we will accept smart proposals again for this economic recession that we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u157	As we get closer to the end, we find that we feel the same way about the possibilities we have. As for discharges, awards and meetings, there will also be a decision by the Government that will not cheer up those who are recipients of these funds. In the light of some solidarity in overcoming the problems we face. Allow me to use this as an emphasis that seems very important to me. Now, when deciding on the rules of appointment and discharge of members of the Assembly, the Supervisory Council and the administration of enterprises owned by a majority of the state, there is a breaking of some old practice and the creation of a new one. You are probably familiar with some of the measures proposed by the Government in this light and will be completed on Wednesday. As regards supervisory boards and corporate administrations, all these very clear instructions have been given that in the coming year, and also at the time of the mandate of this government, they will be far more autonomous and not my cabinets, nor can the cabinets of other ministers interfere with the decisions of the Presidents of the Boards of Supervisors and the Presidents of the administrations and members of the administrations. But their much greater autonomy also entails a much greater responsibility for these people. They answer with their personal property. And I ask you all here, who in the last sixteen years has been responsible for the bad business moves of companies with their personal property? Nobody until now. Now it will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Today's meeting is also a result of the global crisis. In addition, the government is faced with an unwholesome legacy. The cake was cut with too much blade. If I only mention the effect of the pre-election measures, the result of which is an increased gap in the state budget to €six fifty million, and if I mention the supervisory councils referred to by Mr Pahor, in the state-owned companies you have set up, only five state-owned companies have paid their salaries in 2007, i.e. in one year, a million and two hundred thousand euros of meetings. These are facts, and now, after a few weeks, you're referring to a new government. Before long, your views were completely different. For example, Mr Vizjak, it will not be the worst; Mr Grims, there is no crisis, it is only an excuse for the government and after a few weeks they have become the main crisisologist. The government is operating in a very limited situation and measures are also appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u161	Thank you very much. First of all, perhaps some "frozen" Member will have to read a little Rules of Procedure before he speaks nonsense in public here, but that is not really the goal of this implementation, Mr Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u162	Mr. Mag. Is this a replica or are you speaking as a proponent?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u163	No, it's a debate. As a proponent. Look, it's true, we don't want anyone in this room to be the worst or the worst to happen, but it depends on timely and appropriate action. We can leave the wagon running its course, and we will probably not be as pleased as we are now, so that was also the reason for calling this meeting. We want to mitigate the consequences of the crisis, which is in front of the Durma and not only that it is in front of the Durma, it is already in the doorway. We also want to take measures to make the pain in the future smaller and it is true, you will be able to quote me that the worst will not happen if you act properly, we are available here, we want, we give hand. Finally, several times by the President of the Government, a partnership for development was offered in these times, and we accept it, but there was no concrete activity, except for one reference by parliamentary parties. So we also want to be partners, because we know we're on the same boat, but please don't say that even if you don't do anything, nothing will happen. That is not true, if you act in a timely and appropriate manner, the consequences can actually be smaller, and that is what we all want together. We differ as to what are appropriate measures and what is the dynamics of these, so it is good that you listen to us a little bit and take into account what you think is right. You'll probably take responsibility for the situation anyway. I'd touch another thing. Mr President of the Government said that the supervisors would then answer for decisions with their assets. This has already been written down and has already been in the Company Act. If you, the honourable President of the Government, know whether you are aware of any negligence or even of any action that has led to this personal responsibility on the part of the supervisor, you have not initiated the proceedings, you are responsible for this on your own. That's not gonna happen again. This is already happening, and it is in the past. However, it is true that we are here two branches of authority, that one third is not here today, a court which is probably merciless to determine who is personally responsible and who is not responsible. But each one of us has a duty to announce it, to report it, to prove it. And I'm asking you, if this hasn't happened by now, to what extent will this then happen? Where it is an element of personal responsibility and as a result it reaches out to personal property. That would be very good to do. But allow me, we need to draw this out so little, one of your thoughts on the question or on the proposal that was given here today for a speaker on behalf of the Group of Members, these are state development bonds. I think that in fact the money for development investments with the right guarantee, with the right guarantee, in this country is something also in the pockets of individuals, not to speak in certain funds that must invest in stable investments in the long term. This is something and today it would be worth considering this option and offering under some relatively favourable conditions, including such a solution. At the same time, it's money that could be spent on development. This could be the money that banks would give to service, of course, an economy that they would give to various funds that support development investments on behalf of countries, especially development investments in the light of the Lisbon Strategy and the climate and energy package, and which would therefore serve to overcome what we see today is not. It is said that one healthy development capital is under acceptable conditions. Even if the country had to "screw" some percentage to the interest rate for this country. Before that, I didn't hear the answer, I'm sorry, but I'd just like to ask you. And one more thing, you went into some measure that he had already taken to the economy and households before we gave anything. These are excise duties. They rose up, thus preventing the appreciation of fuel and fuel. You have estimated that this measure has some effect, 200 million euros at the annual level. So, with this measure, when the state took something for itself, it was, in my opinion, all right with dynamics, if not too quickly. By measures, when it comes to giving something to people and the economy, we are here today and we are arguing about whether they are timely and sufficient or not. Thus, the dynamics of measures that give and take in some way to harmonise, in time, and of course also in performances would apply. I haven't heard anyone here today talk about what the government is going to propose to take people and how much. I want to know what the excise policy will be next year. How much more revenue do you expect from excise duties today? That's what it means to pick up the excise duty. For example, most of our excise duties are at the lowest limit. Also excise duties, for example, for electricity - 1 euro per mega war hour, can be exceeded by one down, as were these excise duties on motor fuels. I want to know what the excise policy will be, which products will be encouraged and prices will change. Because it's actually one source. And is this raising of excise duty actually a countercyclical measure?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u164	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u165	On the issue of excise duties and bonds, Minister Gaspari will agree. First, I would like to make an explanation, which is that we all know about how the resolution policy, the appointment to the assembly, the supervisory councils and the administrative councils of companies in majority state ownership has been carried out. Not the best. Without blaming any government in particular here, this was simply interpreted as a legitimate spoil of politics, and it did so until we reached the limits. When we find that we are actually dealing with the responsibility of the state to take care of the best management teams, especially in times of economic crisis, when they have to make difficult business decisions. To reach the best teams, it is necessary to ensure a different procedure, because ours are not always the best. We need to get to the best, whether they're yours or ours, and therefore we're going to make important changes in the process that will eventually, mag. Vizjak, led to a significantly greater autonomy of state-owned supervisors and administrators. This increased autonomy will be followed by, as you yourself have found, even a legal property or compensation liability. In the last 15 years, it has never happened that someone is responsible for the bad business consequences. I do not believe that in fact none of the supervisors or the presidents of the boards was responsible for this either, but there has never been any interference with the instruments of the rule of law. And here the government has no right to interfere with this, other institutions are called to do so. In my inaugural speech, you have heard that the Government is working to ensure that these institutions, which are obliged to watch over the work of these bodies, are politically intact and remain so. We will ensure that all, material and other conditions ensure that the institutions of the rule of law, which are obliged to keep an eye on the work of those whom the State appoints to positions, work in the name and for the benefit of the Republic of Slovenia, do their work well or will be sanctioned. Do I have any reasonable suspicions about anyone - no. If I were, I would be obliged, as you yourself have determined, to report this suspicion. The rumors I hear around are too small for me. As a politician, most of my colleagues here have known me well for 20 years, and they know that rumors have never been enough for me to accuse anyone. I never intend to do that either. However, institutions that need to act are called for this. What is an essential message of government policy over the next four years is the significantly greater autonomy of state-owned supervisors and administrators, a significantly greater responsibility for their conduct, including compensation, which will not be determined by policy, by the Government or by the National Assembly, but by the so-called institutions of the rule of law, which we will safeguard, as far as we are concerned, their independence. Now, Minister Gaspari.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Minister Gaspari.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u167	I would answer three questions, or three questions, that have arisen. The first is on investment incentives, the second on government bonds and the third on excise duties. With regard to investment incentives, I think we are forgetting one basic rule that applies in this area, that is, if there is a structural shift on the revenue side, there must be an appropriate structural shift or expenditure. Therefore, we would immediately support a measure to definitively reduce the tax burden, for example, on a tax on profits or also on appropriate investment relief, if this proposal were accompanied by a measure, such as pension or other reforms. This parallel proposal was not available, which would mean that there would be a structural reduction in revenue. This is not a cyclical reduction, this is a structural reduction. A downsizing for the ages. It's not cyclical, depending on the cycle of the economy. This is not accompanied by any measure, at least not in your proposal on expenditure. If we can also agree with the opposition on these measures, which have not been taken in the last four years in this area, then I believe that the likelihood of such a measure being taken with regard to facilitations is significantly more likely and particularly sustainable. That's the point. I think we are all responsible together, especially the Government, to take measures that will allow for fiscal sustainability. This requires, among other things, the European Union and the growth and stability factor. One more thing. If you remember, one year and a half ago, you took, in my opinion, good measures in the area of tax reform. At that time, you said that you would reduce the general level by eliminating selective benefits, and that is in some ways a generally accepted rule that leads to a good result. After a year, we go back, first to facilitate investment, where we return or want to return to 40% relief. Why did we put her away so we could get her back? If the logic is to generalise, a lower rate of taxation is the best relief when we are talking about relief. That's all I'd say, given that, and there's no problem here, we're in a worse situation now, crisis or not. This is not a matter of crisis or crisis, it is in some way a matter of principle of what kind the tax system would like to have, so I say so. State bonds. This is where I said something at first, and it didn't come up with a big echo. We have no problem with whether we want to have a deficit of one and a half, two or even three percent. This is our sovereign decision. The problem is, we don't decide sovereignly whether we're going to fund it. This is the main problem of a small open economy such as Slovenia. We in the international market have not been able to reach funds at this time. I don't know if we're all aware of this well enough. It can happen to us when the obligations of the state budget fall and those of you who have been in the government know when they are about to fall. The first one is due in April and some interest. If there is no adequate source of funding at the time, the country will collect its savings from the banks. And if she picks them up from the banks, it won't be for lending businesses. This is the main problem right now. And if you look at the first quarter of next year, you'll find that there's 300 billion demand in Europe for additional lending funds, and that's those that have triple A because they all have to be refinanced. Everyone's got some responsibilities to fall in. By the way, our banks are facing a year and a half of 12 billion commitments, which no one in normal circumstances has seen as a problem, because this has normally been refinanced on the market and, of course, these operations have been going on normally. Now, they're not normal. That's the main problem. Therefore, we cannot speak freely which stimulus measures would be the best and how much we could build on each other to help as much as possible, because there is simply no financial possibility in terms that would make it easy to do so. Therefore, debt to the home, the state, the state treasury or the treasury is counterproductive. The left pocket is placed in the right pocket. We take from banks state bonds to finance the budget, thereby reducing the economy. The only smart, rational solution for the country right now is to try to find funds abroad. The only one. Then we will be able to provide these measures that we are discussing today and perhaps some other measures. The excise duty is an anti-cyclical measure. What they've been doing for the past five, six years, all the governments that've been doing this. During the rise in oil derivatives prices, excise duties are reduced in order to reduce the impact on retail prices and vice versa when prices are falling. And at this point, we are only doing what is logical at a time like this when prices are falling. At this point, we keep the retail price, we don't even raise it, we keep it at a value that is significantly lower than normal six months ago when something was over the euro. It's 85 cents today. This reserve of 25 cents, I'll tell you, could be worth the gold in the next few months. Maybe. Maybe it won't be enough. Therefore, let us be careful with this source of funding, which can be a very important resource for us in a situation where other resources are even thinner. And I agree with you, not only are there excise duties on oil derivatives, there are some other excise duties, but they are disproportionately more important when it comes to the actual source of funding than others, such as alcohol, cigarettes and the like. It is a pity that there is no Minister of Finance here, because it would be easier to tell how the 2009 budget rebalancing is going to take place, which you know is that I conclude that the assumptions are so different that they are no longer the same budget in principle, but they are completely different basic assumptions where the social product is one third of the planned in 2007 for 2009, when inflation is about one third of the inflation in 2009 and when all nominal growth in this budget will also have to be about one third of those projected in the original budget. However, because certain expenditure is fixed, you know what I mean, to do this is probably not very easy, but it will take a lot of skill and social dialogue. Finally, there is only one brief comment on the management that the President has already discussed. I fear that the OECD mission coming to Slovenia in January will find, in the field of so-called "corporate Government" or corporate governance, very poor characteristics of the Slovenian public sector in this area, given the good recommendations and practices that the OECD is developing and recommending to Member States. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. A visor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u169	Thank you very much. First, with respect to bonds, development bonds. What helps us if banks have money that is not where they should be today, that is, in the economy, in servicing development projects. We therefore propose that at least a part of this should also be intended for more developmental purposes. I agree with you that this is entirely not a substitute and that it could even lead to more problems than a solution. However, if the money is not obtained on the international market, it is also applicable to those instruments. Because the government has a different motive, a different motive for servicing development projects than the banks have. Banks want to make money in this, and make as much money as possible, the better, and, of course, the conditions they offer are also slightly different from what they would have done if they were a country that could work with nothing or a minus if they wanted to reverse or make some kind of developmental leap. I am therefore saying that the management and servicing of the economy through state interventions could be more efficient, faster and probably not be affected by such a contraction in the servicing of economic operators as we have received today. That's one thing. Second thing. Look at some paradoxes: here we say that we will appoint experts to the supervisory councils of state institutions who will be independent, independent of instructions and so on. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah. [[...]] This is also the case with the SID Bank, which we give clear instructions to it. "Serve a small economy, do it, do it." It's a paradoxical opposite right now. And there's one more thing. I ask you whether you will accept instructions to vote in the Assembly of Important Economic Operators in the Government? The owner, respected, must also co-decision and, last but not least, assess the responsibilities of supervisors. He's got to get involved in this because he cares about his investment. This is an essential task of the owner. Of course, it must not fall within the competence of other authorities, but must therefore take care of this investment and, as a result, within the competences it has as owner, as a congregation or as a co-owner, intervene both directly and directly through the para-State funds. Indeed, Minister Gaspari, two years ago the Government reached out after a very selective approach to facilitation, not completely cancelled, but introduced tax reliefs for research and development. At that time, however, it followed the path of lowering the general tax rate or reducing the general tax burden. This is what we have now proposed. Also now in this proposal of the Law on corporate income tax is proposed for 2 percentage points lower than the general tax rate and a measure which we think is adapted to the situation of the coming or existing crisis, this is a re-measure of tax incentives for investments in equipment, because the situation of investing in equipment in the economy has changed dramatically. Two years ago, as much as you want, many experts warned us that this excessive investment activity of the economy is even the cause of inflation, that it is overheating the economy and so on. This time, Your Honor, it really doesn't make sense to further stimulate this investment. As far as we can tell, this is the case where negative growth or decline in investments in equipment and economic machinery, such as the latest forecasts of Umarja, is predicted, minus 2% in 2008 terms. So this is, in my opinion, some new moment that also requires an appropriate reaction, and we suggested it, so it's also here, as I would say, some logic. Maybe it's true, maybe you financiers are more used to watching this static, I don't know, "The tax system is like that, the end, the peak, and now we won't touch it for a while." Perhaps this is the best solution for some stable economies. But we are a transition economy, unfortunately, still. We've been adapting, we've been restructuring for 15 years or 20 years, and we're still going to be for a while. Some economic operators in Slovenia, such as some state-owned companies, have not yet made such a serious effort after the restructuring. That is why I think it is right that the tax system also adapts to the environment, given some turbulent times that are coming, and therefore, of course, we have proposed this.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u171	This dialogue now resembles the British Parliament, which may not even be a poor reference to its tradition. Mag. The Vizjak is now acting as 'Shadow Minister' who is asking questions to the Government, and we are obliged to answer, and this is not even a bad point for working in this Parliament. I'd like to explain the next thing, mag. A visor. I'm the Prime Minister of the Soda Assembly. I am fully aware of my obligations. The administration of the Court will have to act in such a way as to rule as a master. If she does otherwise, I am the first one to explain to this high congregation why she did not do so. Everyone will intervene in autonomy, which will be great, only and only within his or her powers, and so will I personally. The autonomy of the Governing Board will be great, but its responsibility will also be great, at least I will be the chairman of the Assembly of the Court for example.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u173	Mr Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, distinguished ministers. We're talking here today, and as I've seen before, we haven't really said anything. In fact, we talk about what we all already know, but it is only right that we talk and try to get the best possible solutions. The crisis we are witnessing in Slovenia is not our fault. However, we are responsible for making it possible for us to cope with this crisis as easily as possible or as less painfully as possible. Today, it has already been said in the debate that if we decide to help, let us be careful how this aid will be distributed and that in this case it should help those who feel this crisis in the least. Now I would say here, in this case, that I do not agree with this, because, however, the simple people, small people, will pay the most for this crisis, and we cannot go through this "Tajkuni here, tycoons there", because companies have to work, somewhere this crisis needs to be overcome. I would also like to point out that, if we look at eighteen years ago, there was one Mr. Saks who was selling shock therapy and then we were blue in Slovenia. Mr Peterle, Mr Drnovšek, all of ours, I would say conservative economists, they didn't fall for it and go for a soft policy and it turned out to be good. And that is why I would also remind you today, given that some people are saying 'we will only help good companies', it seems to me that this is a little too textbook, let's not fall for it, because let's be careful and drive this policy in a way that will help everyone or that layer, which in this case, I repeat, will pay the highest price. The social state must be taken care of and must be taken care of. Today we also discussed the unequal situation of S.P.s against other companies. I'd like to draw attention to another unequal situation. As I am aware, companies that exhibit more than €208,000 per year in annual transport pay VAT on invoices made. I would significantly reduce this issue and put the widest possible range of economic operators into this system in order to achieve this equality here. I've also heard in public that there is a need to save. Some entrepreneurs say, "Yes, we will reduce travel costs abroad." Wrong. Now that there is a crisis, it is now necessary to go on the ground, now it is necessary to seek solutions and now it is necessary to work. Just before my vacation in June, I called my colleague, politely, working on the production or finishing of auto parts: "Hello, how are you?".. And he says, "Listen, I'm in Germany," "U," I said, "Fine." And he said to me, "No, no, it's not nice if I'm in Germany, and if I'm on the ground, it's not nice, it's nice when I'm home, but I can work at home when I'm on the ground, but there's a crisis coming." Well, at the time, I felt something was happening and look at us in a very short time. And today, while I'm sitting here, my colleague, we are preparing for New Year's Christmas holidays, traveling across Europe, will make about 5,000 kilometers in this circle and will visit all its business partners with the aim of reducing its production decline and not having to drastically reduce its workforce or employees. I come from Lithuania, Šmartno to Lithuania. See, it is important to strive to ease the payment of contributions in order to reduce this. If I say so, only Lithia and Šmartnem have about 600 entrepreneurs. These people employ two to three co-workers, creating between 1,500 and 1,800 jobs, which is far from the largest company in Lithuania. And this company needs to be helped now in these times not to forgive workers, because every smart entrepreneur sees his associates as capital and not as a cost. And when you have to fire a worker, it's very hard to re-activate him in the form that he is now. And be assured that entrepreneurs are also willing to invest for a while, even if they reduce the loss, if they see in later times that they are able to do it again and retain the frame. So in this case, I support this kind of thinking. But let me touch a few more things, because the crisis is the time for some things that are not good to be done, and for example, some problems to be pointed out in our small economy. For example, hospital leave. This can be a very, very difficult matter for self-employed people, for farmers, for those who have employees, because at that time the company can sink in the way it is subsidized today. It's a paying discipline. We've talked about this before. I can tell you that for entrepreneurs I know, it's not even that much a 60- or 90-day payment period, it's that an agreed day will be paid. This is where we should come up with a solution. I've already told you about the VAT. Flexible labour legislation. I propose that temporary employment be abolished, that all jobs be regular. While in crisis this should also be more flexible for possible forgiveness, of course with a very simple transition to a social assistance system so that these people do not feel threatened. And I think you'd both win. When a young person gets a regular job, he can get a loan, he can think and plan his way, while in a temporary working relationship this route is not open to him. This would also have a good effect if we wanted to, in this case at least for housing, because young families need apartments, need credits, and if we could even get to the 30-year lending system, we could also contribute to alleviating the crisis and economic growth. That's what I'd have to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u175	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister! The request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is a commercially correct matter. The only problem is that, on 21 November, the president of the biggest opposition party claimed that Slovenia had avoided the crisis, that the President of the Government was exaggerating when he was still talking about the measures that would have to be taken to overcome the bad economic forecasts, and then said vividly that it was not wise to take measures to combat the disease that it was not yet. If you don't have angina yet, don't take antibiotics. And when a person reads this exact request, he sees that, in fact, in one third of the talk on world conditions, the core part of the request is written in a way that strengthens the great achievements of the Janša government and ends with the characterization of the procedures or actions of the government of Borut Pahor, for which the term is used incomprehensible. You could just understand that so that you can look at the same thing from different angles of view. Like when now absent fellow Member Vizjak first said that he should not interfere in Paloma, but after the elections he spoke differently about Paloma. And there are other things you could find. For example, it would be possible to talk about a measure such as a change in the scholarship policy, which reduces the number of grant beneficiaries by one third. Maybe that's what the drafters are talking about. Calling the government to save money. Maybe there's something we can do after theirs. But as we say, it's possible to look at the same things from a different angle. The problem is that Janša’s government’s smugness, however, has also been assessed differently on some verifiable data. I'm talking about the fact that the government claimed it had a surplus, the Court of Auditors found something completely different. Where the truth is, it will likely also depend on where one of us sits at the end of the hall. But the fact is that the requirement is equipped with some media contributions and contributions of an economic mirror, which we know is that what it said in the autumn findings was no longer held in December when Umar corrected some of the forecasts. And from this point of view, I support the Government's actions, because I am aware that the measures it is taking are absolutely necessary and specific in at least three points. Economic conditions require timely action, temporary action and targeted action. It is therefore those things that are certainly not of a structural nature or strategic nature in this first package, as someone has already spoken here in this Chamber, but those are measures that, as they are often said, should be taken quickly. It is precisely because part of these measures are aimed at ensuring or at at least eliminating the negative consequences that unemployment will have on unemployment, because there are a lot of resources for active employment policy, as well as for research and development, that they seem to be well-directed in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Istok Podkrižnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister. Colleagues and colleagues. It is the readjustment and depth of the financial and economic crisis and will depend on actions that will prove to be good or bad in the future, especially whether they have been timely and real. I think there is an urgent need to act and adapt, if necessary, to the needs of time. First of all, credit lines need to be released as a matter of priority, especially for the smooth operation of companies with turnover orders, ensuring interbank lending, hiring of long-term financial resources, as Slovenian banks do not have the most favourable structure on the part of primary banking resources, as it is the main source of all short-term resources. As Minister Gaspari has already mentioned, Slovenia has a double A rating and therefore I do not think that it should be a problem to obtain resources in the future. It is important that education be in line with the needs of the market, the objectives and the strategy that we have written down in the future. I think it is crucial for the Slovenian economy to maintain positive economic growth in the future. Thus we will be able to invest further in the school and scientific system that we need to put on a higher level, because only people with knowledge will be able to survive in the future what will help us through any crisis and that knowledge will only accumulate and no one will be able to take it away from us. So to be educated in the future for professions that have a future. Companies will solve the crisis, of course, if the measures are right and will be taken, this is especially true for the financial sector, which will be forced to operate on different bases and with different regulation. This will ensure that there will be no greater redundancies and cuts in the number of employees, but we will take advantage of the crisis as an opportunity to preserve the economy as much as possible and to strengthen it. However, there is likely to be changes in some industry. Here I am thinking mainly of the automotive industry, energy in the future. However, this is a time when we need to tackle the cost reduction in the economy as well as in the non-economic field and rationalise the internal processes, which will pay us back in the future. The Slovenian economy can only be successful if it is competitive and the conditions for competitiveness must also be guaranteed by the State itself. That there will be no tax incentives for major companies to invest in equipment. I do not think that this is good for development, so we will slow down development, which is crucial for higher added value and is a negative signal to a larger part of the economy as well as to the underdevelopment. However, I think that most companies do not need state aid, they only need normal banking services. Companies that have been operating for many years with a loss should have been shut down long ago and these people thus have new opportunities for programmes that have a future and are perspective, but this requires a different but a better, more positive environment towards entrepreneurship, especially in small, medium-sized or large enterprises. I remain optimistic, realistic, in spite of the crisis, that we will be able to work together in all areas in 2009 and to continue to achieve the objectives pursued in a positive way. This could be our joint success. Now that Mr Pahor is present, I would like to say that I have been the owner of the company for more than 20 years, as he mentioned earlier, and that we do not have company owners in Parliament, and I am also responsible to all these employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u179	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, at the introduction to a point we have been working on for several hours, the Prime Minister has said that the measures proposed by the Government are not a matter of courage, but of money, of financial possibilities. Or, in other words, politics is never an issue of optimal but possible. However, it is critical to note that all day long, at least from some very active members of the opposition, we are hearing criticism that the scope of the measures is not sufficient, is not large enough, is not correct and could, in short, be significantly better. In doing so, somehow my soul, after all this time we have spent together in the past term, will not allow peace, yet not to tell the truth that must be told today. Slovenia, at the time of the previous government, when we lived in a period of conjunctura or, if we say otherwise, during the period of fat cows, Slovenia, unfortunately, did not save and did not save enough money for the years of dry cows ahead of us. It is clear, and it does not make sense, that we would have pushed these perceptions, that the previous government may not have suspected, that it did not know how severe the crisis was approaching, because otherwise it would not have passed a number of pre-election-coloured measures that we made or made a gap in the national budget of around 650 million euros in 2009 just before the end of the mandate. Of course, the warnings were, because these measures were, what you are saying today, unselective. They were unselective, and they were all received. Free kindergartens touch all children, and if we continue to list them, they were totally unselective. And of course, there were a number of well-known and documented warnings given at the time, both in Parliament and in economic science, those unpopular conservative economists have always warned that in the years of fat cows it is necessary to save money for difficult periods. Last but not least, there is a man sitting among us today who I think is the first to point out that something is happening in Slovenia and that problems are emerging. This is Mr. Gaspari. And since he first pointed out these problems, he was not elected to one of the important functions. It is also right that we warn that today, and we have this in mind when we are also listening to a lot of blue visions all day long. Certainly, even today, we have already talked about this, there will be no way to pass the so-called Virant wage reform in the public sector. This was also established just before the end of the term of office. And what's sad is that the numbers have come to an end in all the cruel reality and all the heights actually just now. What was this reform, when smaller numbers were kept telling us, and then they increased from week to week, they grew bigger and larger and they were not as agreed. They've gone through all the arrangements, and today I think there are a lot of people in this country who have a headache. And of course, today there was also one contradiction, according to my assessment very much. The potential available to this government is around €800 million. A potential that can be addressed in this crisis situation as a country. And I think it is right that the measures are thought out, that they are slow, that there is another way to think about how, where and how these funds are being channelled. It bothered me when it was said today that they weren't fast enough, and on the other hand, I think it's right that they're slow. In Slovenia, it has been shown several times that a little conservativeness, to give us a little, I will say, reflection and slowness did not harm us. Never before. And I think history can teach us that. And because today there are so many words about helping small and medium-sized enterprises - I will say one thing that I personally find frightening. But that's the truth. In 2007, when the former government was in power, there were enormous amounts of resources available to these companies within the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Do you know how much? 1 million euros. These were the funds that the previous coalition earmarked for incentives and for science, research, throughout the year. This invitation to tender was received by 180 companies. The available funds were then allocated to 13 companies. This is the truth of what has been done, even in those years when the funds were substantial. Now allow a few more maybe philosophical discourses. Albert Einstein said that the problems we have cannot be solved at the same level of thinking that we were at when we created them. And the problems that arose were created among the financiers, they were created in banks, they were created in the economy. Today we can see that, unfortunately, in the world in these circles they have no real ones, they do not have the same ones, they do not have the full answers, and the countries are looking for, they are losing out on each other with their own actions, and I think we can monitor this every day. That is why I think that before all of us, in front of the world, the global world, there is one very big challenge. The trial in terms of different thinking, and I hope that we will slowly be able to create such a new paradigm in Slovenia, and this paradigm, which will not be based solely on economic greed, on cancer-growing and uncontrolled profits, which, when we think about it only, is focused on profit, on gross social product, on economic growth and everything. It will be necessary to seek new and alternative paths that will not forget nature, the relation to the environment, to limited natural resources, to sustainable development, and where there will also be a substantial number of space for man, solidarity and also humanity, which will, of course, seek answers also in past experiences, as I have already talked about and in the wisdom of our ancestors. Even in their simplicity. Other sciences, other sciences and other behaviours need to be included, and I am therefore pleased to see that it is part of the announced measures, which will go in particular towards increasing resources for science, technology and research. I am convinced that agriculture, and not only intensive agriculture, is based in particular on ecology and self-sustainment. However, I hope that some of the resources in humanities are also part of it. Because I think we can find some answers to the crisis there too, in which, I think, the world is global. And as I said before, the solution is not just economic growth, profits, GDP. You know that we've been listening to this "fama" in this House all year long, when it's all been talked about, and now we see how things have actually disintegrated at the moment and how we are in a moment of very great crisis. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Excuse me? [[...]] No, I don't, I'm sorry. But I must say that I do not see that economic growth is simply a criterion that can only point to the quality of life, to the state of the environment and to human development. Those of you who think like that, you're thinking in an old paradigm. It will be necessary to think differently, and if you allow, I will quote you to Mr Robert Kennedy as he thought about the gross social product that was such a "fama" here in this House: "The gross social product does not cover the health of our children, the quality of their education and the joy of their game. It does not include the beauty of our poetry or the strength of our marriages, the intelligence of our public debates and the morality of our public servants. It doesn't measure our wits or our love for our country. It measures everything briefly, except for the things that make it worth living." I hope that there will also be a different awareness, a different paradigm in this House, but I can see that some of these different thoughts are strongly irritated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I was thinking that I wouldn't say anything, but I've made up my mind, and I'm going to be very brief. Indeed, what we are doing today, and not only in the past today, is not good. We're ahead of very important tasks, and I think that here and now we should somehow think together about how we're going to take this wagon in our country. The recession and the measures are here, and we accuse each other of what someone has done in the past and what they will do in the present. This is not good, I think we should somehow be united here and try to draw the matter forward. I would like to mention something about measures to reduce labour costs. The measure is written down and I think it can also be very effective. However, I must say that the public and some entrepreneurs think differently. In many cases, this measure may also be used negatively, especially because entrepreneurs as such will also want to benefit and benefit from the State budget's resources, which, in fact, could in some way be covered by their successful work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. He's not here. Mrs. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u183	Good evening. Well, hello, all of you! Today's agenda for happiness is more about the subject ahead of us than it is about the title itself, which is actually a challenge. This is a conversation about the crisis and how to solve it. I must say, I am pleased that the Government has presented very comprehensively the measures that the crisis itself imagines. And I must say that it represents at least three, in my opinion, extremely encouraging novelties that would be worth remembering and actually building a business on them. First of all, how to take action. The measures are taken in dialogue and, consequently, constitute an urgent compromise. It is clear, however, that each arrangement takes time, and it is only right that we take time to do so. Another time. It represents a balance between the interests of different partners, both between employers, who were at least at the initial stage extremely propulsive, as well as between workers who were all too often referred to as just some "side product" of what our future development should be built on. More or less were somehow suppressed in the background, or repeatedly completely played in social dialogue. This is a new quality on which it is also worth building a business. Third time. This is a comprehensive package of measures that builds on preventive, curative measures and on what is important, investment in development. But if you allow it, these are extremely important measures, because they can actually open up a new development perspective, as well as some kind of developmental shift. However, it seems to me that in these measures, all too often, only the economy is being considered, and not enough the potential of social entrepreneurship. In fact, Slovenia is judging me by those countries that have simply not yet come to know this potential. It is possible to open up hundreds or thousands of new jobs in service areas without which the development of modern society can no longer be imagined. Therefore, when you think about stimulating this development, you will also think about how to channel more resources into the development of this social entrepreneurship and what it can actually bring back to society and bring about quality of life as well as new employment. I will certainly support the conclusions drawn up by the Committee, because I think they are good, and I am aware that in this dynamic time and in the new challenges ahead, we will talk more about the crisis and how to solve it. I am confident that the government will come with new measures that are more active in nature. Today, we would not be talking about an active employment policy whose potential has been severely underutilised in the past period. If you will recall, Umar pointed out that investment in active employment was halved in 2007 and that time was terribly delayed, which could be directed towards structural transformation in the area of unemployment. But I'm not gonna talk about it today. In short, I expect that this dynamic dialogue will take place between us and also in cooperation with the social partners and that this will in some way attract the full potential of this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u185	Good bye to all of you! There are many reasons, given the discussions that are here today by the coalition, that all citizens and citizens should really be very concerned. For one of their messengers said self-critically, "With the same way of thinking it is impossible to solve problems." More. I would add that many of these discussions were simply proof that the diversion and ridicule of the interlocutors, unfortunately, reflected the ignorance and lack of arguments that are obviously still present in the currently ruling coalition, as they were in the opposition earlier. Let me show this by an example that you even referred to as a meeting yourself. In a way, the introduction to this debate was that, at your request, the spring inflation meeting in Slovenia was convened. What you were really saying at the time, just a few quotes: "With cheap messages that fuel prices, food is the main causes of inflation, it is simply not possible to explain inflation. The Slovenian economy is more widely plagued by inflationary imbalances." This is where you were demented by history, but at the end of it. You added that this is a structural deficit and have particularly stumbled into financing the construction of economic infrastructure with foreign loans or guarantees provided by the State. And you demanded radical anti-inflation measures. There was also a voice against it. Someone said, "At least a period of stagnation is coming, perhaps even greater problems of the world economy, and then an individual measure has a different effect." And he went on to say, "The only threat that is actually threatening is stagflation, it is said that inflation would actually have fallen violently: "But at the same time, economic growth would have fallen even faster, perhaps even turned negative." This, ladies and gentlemen, I have said and committed myself to maintaining economic growth. And he warned that the conduct of the government, the then government of John Janša, was markedly countercyclical. This has also been confirmed today by ministers, when they said that the most anti-cyclical measure possible is in excise duties to minimise when oil is being auctioned. That is exactly what the government of Janez Janša has done and has brought them to the minimum that is permissible under European standards and that they will eventually rise when oil is cheap, what the government of Mr Pahor has done; by the way, it has withdrawn 270 million euros from the taxpayers' pocket, according to its own estimates, but I do not condemn it. If this is used for a new economic start-up, this can also be a positive step. But more, ladies and gentlemen, to refresh your memory. You claimed that inflation would continue for a long time. This was a central message with which you intimidated the Slovenian public. You know, someone else said this, and I quote what I said at the time, "I'm risking one forecast: in a very short time, in a few months, we're going to witness the beginning of this inflation decline." What I have justified with the changes in the world, is that this inflation was also partly linked to - in addition to, of course, encouraging food, which is linked to the irritation of energy, and tycoon-driven retail prices, because they raised the margin - also with those very well-set anchors at the time of taking over the euro. And, ladies and gentlemen, this legacy of this government has been the best of those that have been taken over by any government in Slovenia, there is no crisis in part, but it can occur if it does not act decisively enough and quickly enough and do not wear foreign feathers. During the first measures, you indicated that you would abolish the tax on paid salaries, which we had already abolished in 2006. Three of the four laws that were passed, and then you broke another one a little bit, were also our government's proposal, and only one is really yours. And I'm asking you nicely to let the money go into development.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u186	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u187	Thank you very much. I wanted to speak more kindly before I listened to Mr Grimes, but I would still be kind. I think that today's debate has only shown that it is the common desire of the National Assembly, and especially of the Government to prepare measures that will be conceived, which will be materially and financially covered, which will be adopted in accordance with a procedure that will ensure understanding of these measures and thus enhance the ability and willingness to implement them. He also showed that it might have been justified at the beginning of this new mandate to speak about the fact that the new government did not know and was late. Today, ladies, it has been confirmed that it has acted in good time, that it has acted thoughtfully, that the comprehensive concept has not only measures, of which we have taken two of them today, but also the concept of measures that it will gradually propose in the coming months. I would like to see the seeming willingness of most of your panellists, the bright exceptions or the dark exceptions are always admissible, show that they would also be realized when we discuss further action together in the National Assembly, because only in this way will we ensure that good solutions are taken, that we will not be able to persuade each other and that the Government will be able to deliver on the promise made by the President of the Government - the willingness to cooperate. Cooperation is possible if there is genuine willingness, not a desire to adjust. I think that the majority of today's meeting has shown that we want to create the best solutions and that it has also shown that there have been many ideas in this desire, but none of them are so new that the government will no longer have it in its wake, so as not to assess the different models of pluses and minuses that each of the measures brings and have a different assessment at some point. The responsibility of this government also exists and the possibility and right of a different assessment. And if it has assessed that the best measure is to encourage or compensate businesses in order to maintain jobs better than tax exemptions, then this responsibility for such a decision will have to be taken and helped to achieve it together. So, anyway, I was afraid that this meeting would also be to a greater extent, not exceptionally, aimed at accusing each other and proving who is better, I must say that it has given me a sufficiently positive result, and that from this point forward we can build common solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Urh has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u189	Good evening, everyone. Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Government, Madam Ministers and all the colleagues and colleagues present here! Indeed, much has been said, and yet the time we now live and the time to come are unenviable. I believe, however, that in Slovenia, with the proposed measures of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we will still be able to turn the guidelines in the right direction in a timely manner, especially timely tax incentives, both in the field of economy, craft and entrepreneurship, and as has been highlighted today, the promotion of agriculture and complementary activities on farms. It is important to take immediate action, including in this direction that we will build road and other transport and municipal infrastructure in Slovenia, as we will allow or also stop the reduction of jobs. It will also be necessary to encourage those who do not reduce weekly working time to 36 hours a week, but would nevertheless need additional funding for development and the existence of their activities by using European funds for European projects and purposes. Such needs are also in the area where I come from, both Dolenjska, Bela Krajina and Posavje and development measures are needed. Therefore, I welcome the actions of this government, the President and the ministers responsible for this, but of course I also join the opinion of my fellow Member, Mr Tonet Anderlic, who said earlier that it is reasonable to consider also that, if we are in a hurry, we should be in a hurry. However, since holidays are coming, I also want happy and beautiful holidays for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u191	Nicely greeted. I'd really like to ask why you started feeding the cow from behind.Oh, my God! It wasn't our idea, and I don't think it was necessary tonight. The government is good, professional, competent, very working and also garage. Minister Gaspari explained the situation several times today, just after primary school, so that everyone could understand it. That is why I do not accept certain indications that quick decisions are needed and so on. There is a need for sober decisions, a gradual solution to problems needs to be avoided, the possibility of anyone taking advantage of these measures and avoiding mistakes as they have been in the past. Last but not least, it's the second pillar in the electricity field. We know why he was created. The former minister will know exactly where the money flows from one of the pillars. Further, there would be no money laundering, as it was at the Clinical Center, where the counselor earned fabulous amounts and so on. But there are tasks ahead of us to alleviate this present situation. Today it has already been mentioned: the problem of public procurement, the fast road Razdrto-Podnanos, the eleventh time a complaint and the delay of this investment was filed. Today, when we also have European funds and so on, of course, this public procurement legislation needs to be amended. It is necessary to amend procedures, spatial legislation to trigger these investments and not to delay a matter related to the monopoly that the Fund of Agricultural Lands has and could still list. We have ideas on how to go forward, we have programmes, we have announced European funds, let's say, in Goriška. Huge assets, a very important investment not for a narrow area in Slovenia, but for the whole country. I think there is a lot of work ahead of us, and I am sure that we will be able to deal with the energy and management that has the knowledge and vision to overcome this crisis that is ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. He's quitting. Mr. Bogdan Chapich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u193	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. The Honourable President of the Government. Ministers. On the Committee on Finance, it was proposed that this point should be withdrawn. Indeed, the proposaler, who wanted to discuss why there were no measures, found that the measures were put on the committee and, of course, the debate itself on this basic proposal that the measures were too late was unnecessary. It is true, however, that there has not been a debate on the measures now, I have not heard that the measures would be bad, perhaps not enough or not enough, but they are measures. And the proposaler also wanted to change the order of adoption, so that what was the task of the National Assembly, the amendments to the two laws, would be delayed into the night and probably would not be accepted, and in this way would in fact make it impossible for certain things to take place this year or the following year. The debate itself is, in fact - and for us, who are new to this House, very welcome - the criticism of the previous government, which has done many things wrong, which has done many things wrong, and in this way we have received a review of this. I am sure that this debate is not only about measures, but also about developments that have already occurred. We had twice on the Government's Committee on Finance, where the Government wanted to discuss the measures and some did not want to. We were able to discuss this today. I'd like you to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr. Tom Mencinger has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u195	I think the more we talk about the crisis, the deeper it is, and the more we talk about the recession, the closer it is. I will therefore set a positive example and give up further discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Campus.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u197	I'll do the same. Just an appeal from Pomurje. The economy is in good shape, but I have an appeal that the state should immediately make order in banks. Mr. Secretary, I urge you to try to verify what the bankers in Pomurje are doing. They take advantage of the situation, increase interest rates precisely for those who are actually the most needed loans, and in principle blackmail them. I even got the data that they're trying to get 20% interest on some short-term loans. I'm asking you to check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. Puksic. Mr Franz Puksic, an unrelated Member, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u199	Thank you very much. It is good that I have at least got a word if I have not been able to get a job in the National Assembly for a month now, which I find incorrect, because it is my duty and my right to do so. It is also my duty and my rights to debate at this point. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr President of the Government, Madam Ministers! It is likely that the complication at the beginning of which point earlier to deal with, which later, was caused by the fact that, in the course of the debate, some of us may have expected too much to take any additional action yet to be taken and taken in all likelihood at the last meeting of the National Assembly this year, which, of course, is also an economic option for entrepreneurs and economies. In fact, the concern of some, especially the Styrian work and, of course, the opposition, is also because we have extremely poor experience with the so-called transition there from the 1990s and, of course, continue. While I am pleased with some of the government's forecasts, it says that the responsibility of administrations and everything else in public companies will be significantly greater than it has been so far. Therefore, given that at least those companies that are owned by the majority of the countries and because they are the salaries of those who are in the Government, the judiciary, Parliament and so on, are public, Mr President of the Government, if you really want to take the first step in this direction of transparency and non-numerical payment of various prizes and so on, then publish your personal incomes or publish the personal income of directors both in Telekom, Mobil, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and so on and, of course, all their contracts. [[...]] I don't know why these are secret contracts and so on. There's no need. I am talking, of course, about companies whose majority ownership is the state. However, there is still something to be done probably, I think, without adopting or amending legislation. I have already warned you about something today, but the Minister of Finance, the tax administration could, in my opinion, want to make arrangements very soon in such a way as to cross over what a company has for good and what it has in a way that would compensate for, but not that the company has to acquire fresh capital to cover some of the obligations that have arisen this month. You don't get a check from overpaid VAT until after two months. This could probably be done very quickly. Or, for example, Mr Minister, as far as I've been informed that the VAT payment after a paid realization, unfortunately, is not much to be taken into account, these companies do not benefit for two reasons. One is that there is an exaggerated administration, and the other is that there is not even a rule to regulate it. Of course, the bigger problem is also that only those companies that have more realisation in a year than two hundred and eight thousand euros and with this change here can benefit from this credit rating; I believe that there is a need to change legislation; of course, we would help both independent entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs, medium-sized enterprises, but now only large ones. And one of the major problems that is still present is the so-called postal collectors, but now I don't think those big but those post office collectors, where it's found later, there's a lot of unpaid taxes, taxes where some young people have been found to have given up in life anyway, and then it turns out they're different drug addicts and so on, and all of this goes away, I'll say, of course, even across borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I'll be brief too, because I can see that if the opposition and the position were a couple, it wouldn't go far. Because the more we talk, the less we love each other. I'd like to ask Mr. Vissiak what kind of coffee he drinks. Because I think I might need you too. Instead of the debate, I would like to make only one brief proposal to the Government to open and support a debate that is already very dynamic in the professional circles, in order to further change the mandate of the European Central Bank, in addition to ensuring greater stability, and to support economic growth. We see what the U.S. Federal Reserve could do by reducing the interest rate to 0.25 to 0% for short-term interest rates. Of course, we cannot think of such a thing in Europe at this time, but it would probably be positive that the European Central Bank is looking more closely, not only to ensure stability and moderate inflation, but also to promote economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u202	Thank you very much. As you know, the SDS Group has already spent its time, so please do not refer questions to them because they cannot answer you. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Please. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. Very short. I know we're very late in time, but we need to be patient. Today's meeting of the National Assembly is particularly important from the point of view of the exchange of views between us, how we can best respond to the financial crisis. All indications that the government is responding too slowly are not exactly in place, because we need to be clear that the government is only in its position for a month. And this month it was able to carry out a large-scale social dialogue on the subject of the financial crisis, which means that the Government has also carried out consultations in such a small period of time with the social partners, who have a lot of say in the actions ahead. Especially at this time such a way of working needs to be welcomed. For all of us must be in the interest of reaching some final solutions that will lead Slovenia out of the crisis. What is the goal? The aim of all of us must be to preserve jobs. For this purpose, the government is committed to around €700 million. And this document brings together a number of concrete measures that will allow this to happen in the future. One of these is to provide compensation to employers who decide to reduce their working time. All of this, dear colleagues, with a clear condition - companies that will receive the subsidy will have to ensure that they do not forgive employees and also do not take into account the payment of the prizes. If we look a little further. The document contains a number of measures from the areas of active employment policy, reactivation, labour funds, education of employees and unemployed persons, calls for the elimination of long-term unemployment, provision of fixed-term employment and for shorter working hours, in particular under conditions. So much, all in the direction of preserving jobs. Dear colleagues! Structural unemployment, which is today a major problem, can only be solved under favourable economic conditions. We had these favourable economic conditions. But unfortunately, we didn't take advantage of them. 2.2%, in terms of structural unemployment, is the same today as it was during the period of economic growth. But despite missed opportunities under relatively good conditions, opportunities must also be sought in crisis. By the way, the title of today's agenda item proposed by colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party is the government's slow action during the financial crisis. Let me remind you that the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Janez Janša, said a month ago that Slovenia was not in recession. And I quote: "In contrast to many other European countries, the latest indicators do not predict it. Slovenia has avoided the financial crisis. It is not wise to take measures to combat a disease that is not yet; if you do not have angina, do not take antibiotics." And today you're somehow accusing the government of working too slowly. At this point, of course, I regret that you act double-crossed when you say on one hand that there is no reason to panic, and on the other hand you assess the Government's response to the crisis as too slow. And you're reading this to the government, which, as I've already said, rules for a month. In this bad month, she managed to engage in social dialogue, adopt four important laws on this subject and prepare a comprehensive document of concrete measures. We have also heard Mr Grimes say today clearly that he believes there is no crisis. But then why did you call an extraordinary meeting and question the government's response to the crisis if you don't think it is at all? Obviously, there is no problem for many of us to face a 30% reduction in orders, the loss of more than 300 jobs in Carreri Ormož, which is forecast in the new year, 54 jobs in Beta Moda, and so on, that I do not list everyone. It is therefore necessary to support the Government to act preventively. Prepare a second set of measures and beyond if the situation so requires. I agree, however, that it will be much easier if the will of the policy is to be honest, to resolve the situation together. So far, the opposition's well-intentionedness has, unfortunately, not been detected. And given the difficult times ahead, I suggest we finally move from words to actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u205	Yeah, too slow to act on the government. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell us in real and unburdened terms what action the Government is currently taking, which is already in place. Which one? Only one: raising excise duties. Just this one. Only one that burdens the economy and households at annual level for over EUR 200 million. This one's the only one that works today. And that's what we're reading. It works which is contrary to what we want to burden the economy. And this one is burdening the economy. This is the only measure that works today. There's a number of others accepted, but none of them are working yet. We know, as well as the financial regulations resulting from the law, that are actually in preparation to work. They're not working yet. No other measure shall work, except the one with which the Government has additionally burdened the economy and the household. And you're surprised at this title reference for an extraordinary session. Speaking of recession. There is no technical recession in Slovenia and no forecast. The recession technically means I'm not an economist, but they taught me negative economic growth. When it's minus the front. That's technically speaking. It's not there, it's not even predicted. It could happen. We have to stop this. That's what economists say. Not just us. Why don't you quote economists who are resoundingly telling you that Slovenia is not yet in recession or is not or will not, but technically, it's just a notion. Slow economic growth is not yet a recession, although some explain it this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u207	Have a nice hello to you all. Your Honor! However, a few words would have been given to the Government's measures to subsidise full-time employment. For me, this is one of the better measures, even though it will not cover all companies or save all. But it has three key elements. Aid to economic operators, other essentials, job conservation and the income of workers as well as thirdly, opening discussions on the social policy system. I would like to move on to the topics already mentioned by Mrs Zalokar Orazem, a Member of Parliament, and I will not repeat her words. A system based on unwavering profits, on continuous growth, and I do not know what categories, cannot bring about a balance in society, cannot eliminate the anomalies on its own. This measure therefore has some special quality. It includes a clause or condition that economic operators can benefit from these wage subsidies only if there is a failure to share profits and rewards. We believe that this is also a contribution to greater social justice, which we do not like to talk about in the liberal economy. Although we all know where this crisis comes from. From a country that raised liberalism as a fetish. In order not to embark on an ideological debate, I will conclude with the same one as Marcel Štefančič two days ago in a satirical show: "Fridman's invisible arm of the free market showed a finger raised in the middle. The illusion of the self-regulatory of the free market and capitalism as such is over." I am therefore also pleased with the thoughts in this direction that the Prime Minister has also highlighted today. Responsibility. It's everyone's responsibility. Especially those who have led to the crisis and must also respond with their own assets. Not as it is today in the United States when bankers and fund managers come to negotiate with the government with private jets. Responsibility, responsibility for business decisions as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Krizman has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government and fellow Members. I'm going to be really short on why I should be talking about the previous government if it's gone. Today we have before us a package of measures prepared by the new government, and very quickly, the next day after the elections, it has begun to work, and today everything we expected will happen. Of course, I will be happy to support all these measures, which are timely, which are good and which are also based on some indicators, because as good a ministerial team as we have now, there is a guarantee that steps will be taken. And since I don't want to make an artistic impression on TV, I'm going to cancel the next debate. And, of course, once again, I will be happy to vote in favour of these measures and we look forward to the next steps clearly. But every thing needs its own time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u210	Thank you very much. With this, we have exhausted the list of debaters. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled to the supplementary proposal for conclusions. I am putting to the debate the first decision and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. I'm opening a proposal for a debate. Mr Andrej Vizjak has the floor as a proposalr of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u211	No, I signed up as an MP.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u212	No, only as a proponent can you have the floor, the parliamentary group has run out of time. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u213	I tried. [[A laugh in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u214	Good. You're the proposer. No, no, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u215	Mea culpa.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u216	You can try it another time.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u217	I'd love to. Look, we originally proposed three conclusions. The first concerned the desire to respond to our two proposals, the second had some additional proposals and the third was more or less relevant to reporting. And, of course, in the meantime, from the time the request for an extraordinary meeting has been tabled to, of course, today's consideration of this item on the Committee on Finance, the Government has also submitted a position to Parliament on both laws tabled. Both the Income Act and the Law on corporate income tax. Therefore, the first decision is not up to date and therefore has already been eliminated by the Committee and has therefore proposed a second decision. In fact, he proposed to amend our decision by turning the whole decision into a "sharp" for coalition MPs, that everything is in the best order and that there is no need for anything else. That's how I get it. However, today we are all finding and, in fact, it has also been announced by the Government that it is preparing further new measures and that they will come to you. We therefore propose an amendment that says that the National Assembly has taken note of the Government's measures to mitigate the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis and estimates that measures are going in the right direction, but not, but to avoid and comprehensively mitigate the negative consequences of this crisis, that they are insufficient. We don't think they're enough. We have also called on the Government to take additional measures immediately and we have mentioned them, such as the reduction of the country's payment deadlines, which has, after all, been welcomed by the Prime Minister, including the reduction of the deadlines for the refund of overpaid VAT. I do not think that there should be any problem here, nor should there be any increase in the limits of compliance with the standard expenditure, which is not the least enshrined in the coalition contract. These are proposals that, I think, are even some coordinated solution between the government and the opposition. And we have called on the Government to prepare measures, including to reduce tax rates and introduce investment incentives to relieve the Slovenian economy for 2008. This is a decision that simply means that we welcome some measures that are going in the right direction. We propose new ones, we even list them and expect them to be submitted as soon as possible. I believe that if the assessment of this amendment and the sincere desire are, there should be no objections to judgment, even after the mimicry of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? President of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u219	The leaders of the parliamentary groups will decide whether such an amendment is acceptable to them or not. What at first sight would upset me in the conclusions is that some concrete measures are being discussed. Like I said, we have as much courage as we have money. If we are to be good masters, we need to think twice about every measure. Of course we have to think fast. If this could be expressed in such a way that this prudence is covered and that it is not necessary for the Government to reach out to each of these announced measures, it would be personally acceptable for me to do so. The Members and Members will judge by their conscience. Before finishing the government part of the performance, I would like to define myself as to one thing that we have not paid direct attention to today, but indirectly much. This is in addition to the role of supervisors, in particular the role of managers who are predominantly state-owned. First of all, with regard to a comment that Mr Pukšič made in the end. It's the public of individual contracts. The law is what it is. Personally, I don't mind examining the reasons for changing the law. Finally, they are people who manage state property and I cannot explain to myself why the treaty would be of a confidential nature. Today, we decide on behalf of the people, their fate, and we must give our data, which is right, to the public. I don't know why contracts between people who manage state property, why contracts concluded between them and the state would not be available to the public. But this is my personal opinion, and the competent ministers will surely still face this proposal. Now, let's talk about the role of managers. See, in recent years it has been created to some extent and, for part of the managers, it is a reasonable impression that more than business policy, the company is engaged in ownership consolidation. This stigma was quite caught up, and today most of the speakers mentioned the responsibility of managers, particularly in this negative light. On the other hand, we have also been giving signals today to this structure, important to the structure of people, to limit their meetings, to limit their awards, to interfere with their salaries, even to talk about the possibility of becoming public. On the third hand, we know that we depend to a large extent on their abilities. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u220	Mr President, I would ask you to focus more on the question of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u221	I'm sorry, but then there's nothing to add.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no one wants to discuss or cannot discuss any more, so I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to the first decision. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting devices, namely, the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. In my own name. I'm opening a list to explain my voice. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u223	I will, of course, support the amendment. To that end, I am convinced that most of you have been debated just as much as you did 10 months ago, even though time has completely put you on the line. Inflation has become deflationary and it has been four months. With the same investment in economic infrastructure, which means [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u224	Mr Grims, I warn you, you are not disputing your opinion with the opposite opinion, but you are reasoning your opinion. Please. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u225	I'm just saying don't waste my time, please. [[...]] And the only thing that's really threatening is Stackflation, that's what it's called. What we rightly pointed out at the time and what is now recognized by the Government. And in these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, I think that continuing in this direction, which is also in this amendment, is the only right one to guide investment in faster economic development and not to spend money on unreasonable things, as in Belgrade, the promised payment of compensation to so-called eraseds, where it can potentially even go to billions of euros, substantially higher than all the money we have talked about today, that we will save it to the Slovenian economy by these measures. And even if the courts did not admit any of this, imagine what it would mean by already oppressed courts, where there will be a lot more to be done. For one of the foundations of sound economic development is the functioning rule of law. This is called financial discipline and, at the final stage, the possibility for everyone in the country to protect it with judicial protection, as the Constitution gives them the right to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I don't see any more interest. So we're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for decisions. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups. I am opening a debate or list of explanations for the vote. Mr Andrej Vizjak has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We decide on a decision that says that Parliament has taken note of the Government's measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis and estimates that it is a consistent package of measures to limit the growing number of unemployed people, to ensure the adequacy of liquid firms, thus maintaining competitiveness in international markets. I could never support such a conclusion because it is extraordinary, as I would say, unambitious, conservative. That's what they say. We'll put out fires and no developments anywhere. For we will preserve something, but we will also protect or limit the rise in the number of unemployed. Nowhere is it that we will use the crisis as a challenge, as an opportunity to help stimulated companies take advantage of their development potentials, further and so on. How can you say hello to such a decision as the Government if you suggest and are pleased with it? I'm not happy at all. Once again, Prime Minister, what action does the Government currently take? Just one. There's only one moment that works, and that's excise. This is the measure by which you additionally burdened the economy and the household.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u228	The President of the Government cannot answer in explanation of vote, so I ask that you just explain the voice of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u229	If you do not understand, everyone else understands that we cannot support this amendment or this conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u230	We understand that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u231	Well, that's what I said five times, and you're jumping into my word and you're disturbing me by explaining my voice on behalf of the delegation. And once again, this is the only measure that works right now, and you say it's a consistent package of measures. For me, for the SDS Group, this is of course not a consistent package of measures. While here are some of the measures announced that we are assessing that measures are in the right direction, but far from being sufficient, there are too few and not only that we are assessing this, we are proposing, on a flat-rate basis, concrete measures that could upgrade this. We quoted them in the amendment, but you didn't want them, because the conscience of the Members is clearly different. And any clear position of the Prime Minister would help to make the conscience of Members different. So, of course, we cannot support this in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Is it a wish to explain your voice? In your own name? I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u233	Thank you for your word. I will join Mr Visiak's opinion with one important remark, because at this point I absolutely agree with what he has said, but with the new year something additional will be in place, namely the complete abolition of the pay tax will be completed. So what the anti-inflational and developmental coalition adopted two years ago was proposed by the government under the leadership of Janez Janša. And please, when you represent your actions, give this from this list, the whales with foreign feathers have already been on some other issues, I think more than too. It's nice to admit to each other what someone does. We, too, will support you and will gladly acknowledge you in everything you suggest positive. Only more courage and more speed in doing so would all citizens and citizens really deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u235	Nor will I support the proposals for conclusions, because I would like to support the meeting's proponents, so to speak, by force, ad hoc, they thought that this would solve or contribute to the possibility that some of the things that had been done by certain measures, particularly pre-election and millions of euros, could be spoken today, waiting for them to be paid from the credit ratings that have been granted in the last period, mainly in the spring. And they really don't need anything from the Government of these conclusions, and they won't benefit in any way. The government knows what to do. After all, she has also heard debates today, and the smart government will draw something out of these discussions if it is something to draw, but if we have not remained in those six hours of discussion and entertainment in this House anyway. So I agree that if you're not satisfied with these conclusions, why would I support them, because these sessions or this point I didn't want to have on the agenda, I didn't even think it made sense. It makes sense what was at 1st and 2nd points, i.e. measures, proposals and I believe that the lesson set out in this point will at least be that when the Government or individual minister comes to the National Assembly with proposals for action taken by the Government or to offer them to Parliament in order to come up with concrete proposals then. The National Assembly does not want to adopt some decisions that will be its own intention, but that it will take action, and when there is a new opportunity, I expect this to happen and then I will support a concrete solution if it is good.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-04.ana.u236	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 43 votes against 27. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 27.]] I understand that the conclusions are taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. The assembly will consider under this item the proposal for a decision on the discharge and election of a member of the Commission under the Anti-Corruption Act. The proposal was submitted to the Parliament by the Zares Group for its consideration. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the discharge and election of a member of the Commission under the Anti-Corruption Act. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I also conclude this item on the agenda. I also conclude the fourth extraordinary session of the National Assembly. Ambassadors and Members, I ask you to take all the materials out of the hall for the preparation of the hall for tomorrow's festive session. I welcome you, and to those who will not see you tomorrow, I also wish you a merry Christmas holiday and a happy New Year. Otherwise, in as large a number as possible for the festivities. Thank you very much.
