ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u1	Good morning, good afternoon, distinguished fellow Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 40th meeting of the National Assembly. I inform you that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: colleague Anton Kokalj, colleague Drago Koren, Dr Marko Pavliha and colleague Ferri Horvat. We're moving to 37. POSITION OF THE DAY'S COURT - DESCRIPTION OF THE REPORTS OF THE INVESTIGATION COMMISSION FOR FINDINGS AND EVALUATION OF THE ACTIVITY OF THE OFFICE OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, OF THE MINISTRY OF JUSTICE AND OF THE HIGH GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE LAW AND OF THE OTHER DECISIONS IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE ESTABLISHMENTAL ACCORDANCE WITH THE CONSTRUCTIONAL ACCORDANCES OF THE COURT OF STATE GOVERNMENT, WITH THE DRAFT DECISION. I'm informing you that we have 5 hours and 5 minutes for this point. The report was submitted to the Council by the Investigative Commission for the purpose of determining and assessing the actual situation, which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Justice and the Office of the Supreme Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, as regards the exercise of control under the Public Prosecutor's Act and the amendment of legislation and other decisions in accordance with the constitutional competences of the National Assembly. I give the text first to the President, Mr Dimitri Kovacic, for an additional explanation. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Investigation Commission, which investigated the situation in the Slovenian prosecutions and the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions, was established at the request of the Council of State. On this basis, the National Assembly established this commission because it is an obligation prescribed by law. At the request of the Council of State, the establishment of such a commission is mandatory. The Commission was tasked with determining the extent and content of the control actually exercised in the prosecutions, the possible personal responsibility of the holders of public functions to determine the degree of involvement of individual holders of public functions and to assess their political impact on the consequences of the conduct of the law enforcement policy and, on this basis, to identify their potential personal responsibility in the course of legally inadmissible conduct in relation to the policy of prosecution. It was also the commission's task to identify the causes and circumstances that could cause illegal or irresponsible work by the State Prosecutor's Office and, on this basis, also to assess possible shortcomings in the legislation or system-wide measures of the Government, ministries or the prosecution itself. The purpose of the Commission of Inquiry is therefore to investigate and identify possible irregularities, illegality and responsibilities of individual holders of public functions. The Commission of Inquiry is not the final judge, but the working body of the National Assembly, which searches, investigates and on this basis identifies errors, weaknesses in the institution it is investigating, therefore it is not intended to seek excuses or extenuating circumstances. More or less the role of the advocate of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the holders of public functions associated with the functioning of this institution is reflected in a separate opinion submitted by Mr Kumer, a member of the Board of Inquiry. However, as the Commission of Inquiry has said, on the basis of legal provisions and by the very definition of the investigation, it is not a judgment or even an advocate of those who are being investigated, but it is a body that seeks burdensome data, burdensome facts and evidence from which it forms a legal basis for its final findings and conclusions. And that's exactly how the commission of inquiry worked. The report that we are considering today is indeed, balanced and based solely on the facts and evidence found or produced by the Commission, also based on the available material available to the Commission, and the basis for the report is also data and information from official records or official documentation. Unlike another investigative commission established and still operating in this mandate, our investigative commission did not resort to sensationalism and unilaterally biased findings, nor did it accept extreme or extreme positions, but, as it is said, advocated and also adopted a real, objective and balanced report drawing general conclusions, conclusions for the period 2000 to 2004, on this basis, as well as a proposal for a decision proposed to the National Assembly for admission. The Commission of Inquiry therefore avoided all extreme positions, namely the view that everything was wrong in the State Prosecutor's Office during the period 2000-2004, as well as the opposite view that there was nothing wrong, which advocates the separate opinion of Mr Kumr. I therefore consider this separate opinion to be a rather extreme or extreme position which our investigative commission could not follow. The Commission has taken into account the actual situation and, as it is said, all relevant data and facts for the report that we are considering today. The report also shows the historical picture of the situation in the prosecutions in Slovenia as an integral part of the former Yugoslav State. This historical picture is not designed to conduct an investigation of the situation during this past period, but to understand the transitional period when the Prosecutor's Office, as a special socio-political institution that primarily protects the social political system, has then gradually transformed itself into a state institution that detects and prosecutes the perpetrators. In view of the fact that the transition to a democratic system has not changed overnight the thinking of prosecutors, who until then were socio-political workers, and therefore the transitional period of the transformation of the mentality and functioning of prosecutors takes place since independence. And this transition time isn't over yet. And precisely because the prosecutor's function after Slovenia's independence was based on new, democratic, fundamental and not more revolutionary than before, the prosecutors also, after their independence, maintained to a considerable extent an ideal preference for the political options emanating from the former only party of the Union of Communists. And this is also the reason that so imaginative prosecutors had great difficulties in adapting to the new concept of effective prosecution of new forms of economic crime, which has become the richest in the transition period. In the 1990s, the prosecution was only gradually adapting to the new concept of the role of the prosecution in democratic regulation. Therefore, efficiency at this time has been very unsuccessful in the area of economic crime and wild privatisation in particular. Such a relative failure was also the period 2000-2004, which was the time frame for the work of our investigative commission. The findings of the Commission indicate which were the most significant shortcomings in the prosecutions during this period. Let me mention some of these major shortcomings: inaccuracies in postal records, lack of interest in informationising the prosecutor's work and consequently insufficient exploitation of information capacity, human resources malnutrition, difficulties in legal qualifications of individual illegal practices in the field of economic crime, inadequate or inadequate individual explanations in the specific decisions of the prosecutors, when the explanation seems to have been written merely formally, since it requires law, but not that the justification be the basis for a concrete decision. There is a strong impression that inefficiencies in wildlife or the deprivation of social property were dependent on the political influences of the ruling policy or economic lobby. And the following is the fact that there is a weakness, and this is the low effectiveness of the prosecution of economic and other organised crime. In the light of all these shortcomings during the 2000-2004 period, the Commission of Inquiry found that the current Attorney General Zdenka Cerar was objectively responsible for the unsatisfactory situation at that time. It is also worrying to note that the situation has not improved significantly from 2000 to 2004. In view of the transitional time I was talking about in the beginning, it was not possible to expect that all the weaknesses in the prosecutions would be eliminated, since, last but not least, they have not been fully resolved today. However, we can see that the situation has not been gradually rectified at this time, i.e. in the years 2000 to 2004. As a result, there was no need for will, since there were no important measures by the current prosecutor's office, the ministry or the government that went towards greater efficiency. In doing so, we can conclude that this situation was clearly agreed with by the current government or its current Prime Minister, who appointed Mrs Zdenko Cerar in April 2004 as the new justice minister. Unfortunately, such a lack of political will, and not only in the period 2000 to 2004, but also in many years before, has resulted in considerable impunity for economic crime in the illegal processes of savage privatisation. The consequences of all of this are also evident today as they come on the day of the story of takuna takeovers, which are the result of long-standing financial frauds based on weak legislation and, above all, the ineffective persecution of such crime, which is mainly due to the lack of political will of the former ruling coalition in many past government mandates, led by the LDS political party, today or not by some of its most visible members then joined the parties to the Social Democrats and, indeed, even the writers of their programmes. And so we can see the current key members of the LDS party, which also had a decisive impact on the situation and situation in the Slovenian prosecutions, and today they are very evenly represented in all three parties. As the time frame for the work of the Commission of Inquiry was the period 2000-20004, as stated, the proposal for a decision is also linked to this time frame. We therefore propose that we find out what has to be done since then, or how to approach the implementation of the relevant procedures and measures. It would be necessary to professionally strengthen the prosecutions primarily with personnel who would be specifically qualified to detect and prosecute contemporary forms of economic crime and corruption. They should also adopt appropriate amendments to the Penal Code and also to the Criminal Procedure Act. We should also change penal policy, prevent political pressure on prosecutors. Among the necessary measures, we also propose re-exposure and reflection on the appropriateness of the legal institute for the permanent mandate of prosecutors and judges. A systematic change would also be necessary to align the immunity of prosecutors and judges with the immunity of members of the National Assembly. Among the proposed measures, we also propose to provide objective and transparent information to the public on the prosecution's work, and the exercise of the supervisory function should provide a more transparent and practical system of sanctioning the poor or unsatisfactory part of the prosecutors. At the same time, the Commission notes that a number of things have already been done in relation to the necessary measures since 2004 both in the field of legislation and under-laws of the Government and the Ministry, as well as in the area of education and/or complementarity. The financial resources for the prosecution's operation have increased, while they have been spent more deliberately and more cost-effective than in the past. We can find that the situation we encountered following the 2000-2004 investigation is improving. As a result, the situation in the prosecution today is better than then, and the conditions and conditions for the good and efficient work of prosecutors are improving. On the basis of these better conditions and conditions, the results of the work are also being corrected, as some recent cases have shown. Of course, the situation is still not ideal today. In this introduction, I will not specifically describe the individual specific sets of the report which speak of individual public function holders and their responsibilities for irregularities or shortcomings, as this is contained in the report itself in a sufficiently comprehensive form. Since the time for my introduction is slowly running out, I will say something later, but I can say something else in this minute. As a special case, which is also highlighted in this report, I will also point out an example of prosecution against Mr Drag Kos and Roman Praha, who, without a court order, examined the telephone communications of journalist Ranc. This seems to me to be a particularly significant example of political influence. [[...]] [[Mr. Gulič, if you could just keep it down, because you're wrong about the presentation.]] In this case, there was a significant impact, a political impact on the work of the prosecution, which is independent and independent when the Attorney General of the State at the time prevented the continuation of the prosecution against the two criminals of the two weeks and, in fact, the whole case did not experience any epilogue. [[...]] I propose that the proposed decision of the Commission of Inquiry also be adopted by the National Assembly and that I shall also be available for further clarifications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SD Group will be presented by Comrade Dusan Kumer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Now, at the outset, I have two or three sentences to answer to the President of the Commission, who finally mentioned my name. In his introductory presentation of the supplement to the proposed, not as a presentation of the opinion of the SDS Group, as President of the Commission, you were able to create your own opinion on the management and functioning of this Commission over the last two and a half years, in view of what the colleague was talking about. He talked about programs written by some others in the parties and so on, which the Commission had not dealt with. That is why this Commission was unable to follow my separate opinion all the time. Either she couldn't, or she couldn't, or it wasn't her intention. And that's the whole story. From the outset, I did not agree that the basic way of working as an investigative commission is to charge first, and then to force it to seek political evidence for these accusations. And that was the way this commission worked for you for two and a half years. The National Assembly set up an investigative commission to assess the actual effectiveness of the authorities subject to this parliamentary inquiry and to identify the reasons, circumstances affecting the results of their work, in order to determine the actual degree of independence of those authorities subject to the parliamentary investigation and the possible involvement of holders of public powers with political powers in their work both at national and local level, in order to determine how and how effectively they are being monitored under the State Prosecutor's Act and to propose possibilities for improving control and to determine whether the amendment of the Public Prosecutor's Act 2003 has contributed to improving the results of the work of state prosecutors. This was the starting point and the basis on which this Commission of Inquiry was to work for two and a half years. In the Group of Social Democrats, we assess that the draft report, together with the conclusions and conclusions, does not reflect the answers to these four questions raised. Based also on its own, sometimes unpleasant, experience of cooperation in this committee with all responsibility, I claim that the content of the report is nowhere near the systematic, credible and non-political presentation of the objective findings of the Commission, which should follow the logic, structure and content of the work that the Commission, as its starting point, has also reached at the beginning of its work. My allegations are able to be verified and proved from the magnetic records of this committee. Otherwise, I will only remind you of the event that took place last week in the National Assembly, which is linked to the first decision you have today in writing. The first decision proposed by the authors of this report states that it is necessary to professionally strengthen prosecutions with personnel who will be specially trained to detect and prosecute contemporary forms of economic crime and corruption. What did the President of the Government say last week in this State Assembly in this chair? That for two and a half years the government has been training, strengthening human resources, and today all economic crime law enforcement authorities are in full shape, so they have undertaken a skilled and strengthened part of this fight against the tycoons. Make a deal, someone in this story is not telling the truth or is misleading the Slovenian public. The draft report, which is prepared for consideration at the National Assembly, does not summarise the objectively factual situation as expressed in the hearing of the witnesses before the Commission of Inquiry. At the same time, the proposal for a report is a partial summary of some of the other documents that the Commission has obtained, for example, the report on the supervision of the prosecutions in the period 2000-2004. Interestingly, some chapters in the report have been identified as priority, for example, Depala you, Ranc and Friday, which the Commission has not dealt with very much. Nor did she try to substantiate with concrete evidence the claims that were sold as dry gold in public with regard to the reported involvement of policy in the prosecution work and the misuse of public powers for political purposes. Instead, in the draft report itself, it summed up the findings and facts reached by the previous investigative commissions and courts, or are summarised on the basis of other publicly available data and publications, including the clicking of public media. The authors of the report decided that the history of the prosecution in Slovenia would begin in 1945. Okay. Why they decided for this period is virtually nowhere seriously reasoned, even less professionally explained. From the last paragraph of this chapter, we can take a closer look at the political lustration message of this draft report. I quote: "This historical image is needed for the sake of easier understanding, as in many respects the Prosecutor's Office has taken over after Slovenia's independence and has gradually been kept to a lesser extent in the years to come and sometimes feels today. The prosecutions, filled with the senior political staff of the old party regime, trained primarily and solely for the prosecution of the crimes pursued by the regime and with unadapted criminal legislation, were not partial and non-performing to this phenomenon." [[End of quote.]] However, historical representation was also presented very superficially during the period 1945-1990 and without adequate explanations of the socio-historic circumstances of that time. It is therefore torn out, according to the political criteria chosen, cuts which do not show an objective picture of the prosecution during the period described. I wrote more about this myself in a separate opinion. The historical representation of the prosecution for the applicant shall be completed in 1990. Strangely enough, there was no prosecution in Slovenia in 1990-2000. However, if memory does not deceive me, most of the Slovenian Public Prosecutor's Office has been led by Mr Anton Drobnič, a member of the New Testament appointed to this place by the current Demos government, or the majority of Demos, read, the current government majority. Therefore, probably the coalition majority in the investigative commission does not want to impose any responsibility on him for the work of the prosecution in that decade. In this way, the authors of the report end with absurd, if not ridiculous, the idea that the prosecution in Slovenia in 1945-1990 had the greatest political impact on the work of the prosecution in the years 2000-2004. While the prosecution in 1990-2000, led by Mr Drobnič, was not under the political influence of the past period, it is 1945-1990. It's some empty space or something, obviously. In other words, the work of the prosecution under the leadership of Mr Drobnič, according to the authors, has nothing to do with the work of the prosecution in the years 2000-2004, so it is not time-consuming. Obviously, the authors of the report's proposal believe that the prosecution acted flawlessly in those ten years, including the official supervision of the Minister of Justice at the time - and the justice ministers were from the so-called "right" political options - it was not necessary, so the report in the historical account does not even bother. This is despite the fact that it is a period of severe transition in which the most economically harmful and criminally harmful anomalies have been committed. Some, as has been said today, are still active today. Therefore, this period should have no impact on the subsequent period 2000-2004. However, it was significantly affected by the period before 1990. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that in this case it is some kind of flat-rate but politically motivated assessment, for the unhappy - conscious or unconscious - of an attempt at a lustration or disqualification position. Its purpose is to clearly disqualify and accuse persons who in the previous system performed tasks in the prosecutions, but not in all cases. Today's Attorney General, Mrs Brezigareva, and the newly appointed Constitutional Judge, Dr Deisinger, who also performed important functions in the previous system in the prosecutions, do not, for example, fall within this category, that they cannot carry out the same tasks objectively today, or that they have performed them poorly and non-professionally in the past 17 years, but, above all, on purely political criteria, the so-called Left Authority. They continue to operate under the influence of the political forces of the previous system, and they have not changed their attitude and working methods today, but have kept this to this day. In view of the fact that the reputation of the National Assembly has already been sufficiently distorted in the public, we are convinced in the Group of Social Democrats that the content of this report further undermines the reputation and authority of this authority, which is supposed to represent the highest temple of democracy in Slovenia. If this final report, with the findings and proposals of the conclusions of more than two-and-a-half-year work of this special investigative commission, cannot be justified nor can it be justified to spend money for this purpose. I warned myself at the beginning of the work of the Commission that such a method of work meant a political farce and did not follow the Commission's stated intention to reach out to the real facts of the possible impact of policy on the work of prosecutors in the period 2000-2004. And it is also true that from the very beginning, some of us have felt that the establishment of a commission has fostered a variety of political tendencies, such as compromising the previous political authority, which has also been seen in the introduction today, as collateral damage to define the former Attorney General's Office, to blur the irregularities committed by today's Attorney General in the case of Depala Village, to divert attention from the unsuccessful fight and prosecution of crime under the current executive authority and so on. Last but not least, the composition of the commission itself is completely eloquent and tells everyone that it is set up on a proposal from the coalition and that it is the largest member of the SDS's largest government party. We can also say that this is a major SDS client committee, sponsored by the National Assembly, whose work is also financed by the National Assembly. Therefore, in our view, it is primarily an abuse of the very important institution of democratic control, which is an investigative commission. The politicisation of this institution of parliamentary supervision of political and public authorities and public functions undermines its credibility and public confidence in this institution of parliamentary control. Last but not least, where or to whom can those people, individuals who are disqualified in this draft report and who are practically accused. At the same time, the majority on the committee did not even allow them to defend themselves. In doing so, we want to make it clear that we are not defending individuals and their possible behaviours, but we are defending the reputation of an institution, this is an investigative commission, and consequently the reputation of the National Assembly, which in such simple and in certain cases, unfortunately, also a primitive way, without clear evidence, allows individuals to be accused and disqualified. Just as an illustration. The majority in this commission of inquiry do not respect their own finding, which we have taken to hear from Minister Erjavac and to confront former President Kučan and the Mayor of Cyprus Popović and to clarify or clarify certain dilemmas, as well as non-truths and, above all, obvious lies, then every comment is superfluous. It is certainly not necessary to be a great legal expert in order to establish the conceptual and even more substantive inadmissibility of this proposal. The authors of this report have selected individual cases very selectively and biasedly, and then, in a large part, they have also been unobjectively evaluated by their own flexible criteria and criteria, which have only one common denominator: to bypass some former public function holders who are not of the will of the current authorities. This is not a surprise, however, if I just remember how the Commission of Inquiry was formed and how it was always guided. The obvious writers of this report agree on the theory of conspiracy, on the assumption that only politics and only politics have a significant impact on the activity of the prosecution. Why, then, is the prosecution still failing in the worst cases of economic crime today? Is it also today to find the main culprit in the current political option? Is the culprit in the largest ruling party of the SDS and its coalition partners? As things are set out in this report, the answer is yes. It's the coalition's fault and it's the biggest client, it's the SDS. The government exerts direct political pressure through the Attorney General, who was an SDS candidate in the presidential elections, the SDS candidate in the parliamentary elections, and the SDS minister of the government, where the SDS was the strongest party. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is not possible to identify political responsibility and political involvement in the work of the Prosecutor's Office in such a simplified way. And after 17 years of still being obsessed with paranoia that the spirit of the former socialist system is still creeping in the prosecution ranks and that the forces of continuity still have an impact on the work of prosecutors and prosecutors, but it is only a little too much. In particular, it is a reflection and proof that the establishment of a commission was aimed at the political discredit of its political rivals and opponents through the backs of the prosecutors, not at finding reasons and solutions for the more efficient work of the prosecution. Therefore, and above all for this reason, the text of the proposal does not contain a serious critical and professional judgement. Let me get this over with. This is the first investigative commission established at the request of the Council of State or at the initiative of one of its members, who was prosecuted by the prosecution for the suspicion of criminal service. There is no way to get rid of the feeling that the basic motive for the request for the establishment of an investigative commission was the high degree of collegiality of most members of the Council of State towards an instigator who, as a counter-measure of the prosecution, wished that the work of the law enforcement authorities should be taken under the political scrutiny of the coalition majority in the parliamentary commission of inquiry. This is further convincing initially, and in some parts, I believe that the unconstitutional text of the request for the establishment of an investigative commission whose content sought to revise individual procedures and decisions taken by the holders of the public functions of the judiciary would, of course, go beyond the constitutional framework of parliamentary control. Social Democrats, led by Mirano Ptræ, then we made great efforts to reformulate the text of the requirement, which would nevertheless satisfy the constitutional and legal framework. However, nothing less has been our involvement in the legal correction of tasks and the purpose of the commission of inquiry, which was also our condition, and this is a basic condition for us to participate in its work at all. Regrettably, after the first meetings, it has been shown that the work of the Commission of Inquiry will not be conducted in a manner that would objectively follow the purpose of the investigation which led to the establishment of the Commission at all. There has been a major politicisation and privatisation of the commission of inquiry. This text of the report is also a political pamphlet because it has a whole range of claims and valuations which have mistakenly gone into this report. But they're on a daily menu for political accounting with their client rivals. And that's what you had to listen to from the chairman of the commission for 15 minutes today. This, last but not least, proves that it is strictly rejected that from 1991 to 1999, Mr Drobnič was the Attorney General. It is eight years before the time to be dealt with by this Commission of Inquiry. And at that time, there was a lot going on, which, according to the authors of this report, is not important, but even though there have been a lot of backlogs, most backlogs, and most of the chapters discussed in this report have been happening in this period: ownership of social property, Depala you, etc. Regardless of everything, the issue of the positive effects on the future work of the prosecutor remains open, as we wish in the National Assembly. Some were pointed out by the prosecutors we interviewed, all the surveillance reports are in the archives of the Ministry of Justice and the Attorney General's Office. We also got some on the committee. However, they do not define or identify political pressures and political connections that would affect the work of prosecutors or prosecutors. Even all those questioned, the heads of the prosecution before the investigative commission, have not confirmed these assessments. This means, of course, that it is impossible to agree to flat-rate and often, unfortunately, also the imaginary political links identified in the draft report and identified as chronic evidence of the impact of policy on the prosecution species. Thus, the vast majority of the text of the report does not correspond at all to the content and tasks set out in the evidentiary decision, both with regard to the findings and circumstances affecting the work of prosecutors and prosecutors, the degree of their independence and the possible concrete involvement of public function holders in their work, since, finally, there are no concrete guidelines or proposals to improve the working conditions for any different and better control in the conclusions. The first conclusion, I have told you, the President of the Government says it has already been realized, and you suggest that it be realized.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Group will be presented by colleague Jožef Školč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u6	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Mr Vice President! It should probably start with those arguments that the Liberal Democracy had at the time of the Commission's establishment. At that time, we opposed the establishment of such a commission, and, given what was recorded in the founding decision, we also refused to participate in this committee. We did not participate mainly because we did not want to give the legitimacy of this extremely problematic work led by Mr Kovacic as a coalition in the commission. When I say we didn't want to give the legitimacy, I don't want to say that the other opposition colleagues who took part in this didn't do any important work. Still, they gave the impression that things were going in the right direction. When we are at the end of today, in fact, our arguments overlap. What the coalition has done in this case is extremely problematic work. The National Assembly has led to a situation where it assesses individual cases of the work of the prosecution when it assesses the professional reports when it interferes with what is separate from the law and the constitution as a division of power. This intervention from its field to another field does not mean anything but the destruction of the rule of law. Nothing else. Gentlemen, we have not been informed in this report of any public function that has politically affected the work of the prosecution. In accordance with the law, the Commission can only be set up to seek out these public function holders who have abused their position. Mr. Kovacich, where are these names? In this report, you then passed it on to customers. This is unacceptable and is also contrary to the prescribed procedure of the law of inquiry. You said that some important members of the LDS went to Zares and SD. If this seemed important to you that this is the work of the Commission, I would ask you to complete this report, that many important members have also gone to your party. You too have them, and you also engage them in companies, in municipal councils and many more. Please complete your implementation, complete your report. It is not possible to label the parties simply because of the individual’s possible conduct. But if you're doing this, then I'll say, take part of it, too. As we read these final reports today, as well as a separate opinion and listen to these things, it turns out that it has probably been from the very beginning and has remained the primary purpose of the work of this problematic commission of yours to weaken the position and reputation of the judicial and investigative bodies. In this connection, you wanted to prove that the prosecution is under new leadership, said under the leadership of Mrs Brezigareva, the first prosecution in the history of Slovenia, which acts legally and pursues what must be persecuted. They're two purposes. And if, to some extent, you have been fortunate enough to undermine the reputation of justice with these constant accusations, and most often without concrete evidence, there remains a great question if the reputation of Mrs Barbara Brezigar is to be increased. This report does not go back to its time, but we have witnessed a report a few days ago that the police chiefs should have ordered that some of the illegal moves that were at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in connection with Mr Minister and his wife be not looked at. If you were spreading your view in 1940, look at your threshold. I could have mentioned other things to you. When the prosecutors arrived at the famous parking lot on the Lopata, their work ended, Mr Kovacic. It would be interesting to see when you already had everything on, as they say, together to ask them why it happened. Wasn't there any clue from anyone? But let's just leave it. Mrs. Irgle, please. I am happy to answer you because I think you rarely speak openly about these things, and I would take advantage of these opportunities. I don't feel like talking about it in the halls. However, what you have done, of course, has not done anything good to the system of division of power, and the rule of law has done nothing good. See, at the beginning, when the evidence was being drawn, it was already made without any minimum evidence being produced. The Commission continued to be represented by people who were in one way or another in different proceedings. This is also controversial, whether their cases have been dealt with or dealt with. From this point of view, the credibility of such a commission is a major problem if it is to injure the prosecution. Perhaps it is good, as it has been shown at some point, that the case that Mr Zammernik had studied in the previous term was not the subject of consideration. It would be extremely unusual if this continued here, because it is difficult to ensure at least in terms of public neutrality the appearance of impartiality. Not even the appearance can be guaranteed. Further, we have witnessed the fact that a wide variety of witnesses who were dissatisfied with the work of the prosecution were led to the commission. I wonder what the credibility of such witnesses is. If someone isn't satisfied with the prosecution, but the Priory doesn't mean he's a hundred percent witness. Furthermore, the Commission of People was led in proceedings that were still pending before the Court, which is contrary to the rules of the Commissions of Inquiry. Like Mr. Popovic's case. These proceedings ran in court, and they ran in the National Assembly at the same time. Mr Kovačič, this is a major abuse of power given to you by the majority and contrary to the rules in force. And that's what he asks questions about all this, I'll say, dirty work. When it was proved necessary to bear witness to the most innocent in favour of these these, the purest of all ministers in this government, Mr Erjavec, who in fact does everything, if necessary, for the pensioners, if necessary, for the infants, certainly never for himself. When he was your chronic witness in the Popovic case, he first put you up to a lie and then you didn't confront him. Why didn't you do it? A lot of answers would be answered. A member of your coalition, who has in fact remained innocent until his present time and will certainly, in his conviction, do whatever he wants to do, do so in such a way that he himself will not bear any responsibility. But anyway, this commission, with its report, has certainly only undermined the reputation of the investigative commissions. I'm pretty sure of that. Therefore, I am glad that we have not cooperated with her, but we cannot be as silent as anyone in this hall when these things are discussed. This is the abuse of the political power you had, the abuse of business regulations on investigation, the abuse of the law on parliamentary investigation and the intervention in the second branch of the government. I hope others learn from this. I don't believe in that.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by colleague Jožef Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! I will not argue with the speakers, nor with you, colleagues and colleagues, because we are in the position of the groups of Members, Mr Vice-President. An assessment of who qualifys for the work and all the members of the commission from this pay phone is yours. We therefore have before us, Your Honor, a report from the Commission of Inquiry, which had a constitutional session just over three years ago, on 3 June 2005. The essential points of the evidentiary decision adopted by the members of the Commission pursuant to Article 6 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation are as follows. Firstly, to assess the actual performance of the authorities subject to this parliamentary inquiry and to identify the reasons and circumstances that have affected the results of their work, as they are clearly poor and do not enjoy confidence. Secondly, to determine the degree of actual independence of the authorities subject to this parliamentary inquiry from the holders of public functions. And thirdly, under the law of the State Prosecutor's Office, it is a judicial, professional and supervisory complaint against him. It is necessary to determine how much this has actually been implemented and its results. The Commission of Inquiry met at 21 meetings, where I was alone as a member of the Commission or my deputy, Comrade Cyril Testen. A lot of material was obtained and processed. In order to facilitate understanding of the problem, it is essential to refresh the memory and it is useful to illuminate the position of the Attorney General of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia in the 1980s. We can see that at the end of the 1980 ’ s, the structure of the prosecutor’s office was laid down by a prominently party or political line, reading, along the line of the Communist Union. This is the time of the harsh liberalisation of the economy, in the then common state of Yugoslavia, when Markovič's Act on Businesses, which entered into force in early 1989, was adopted, if you remember. He introduced a liberal principle, anything is allowed, which is not explicitly prohibited. Under this principle, the so-called wild privatisation or the place of social property began at that time. The prosecutions, filled with the political priorities of the old party regime, trained primarily and solely for the prosecution of the crimes pursued by the regime at the time and with unadapted criminal law, were unfortunately not at odds with this phenomenon. The transition from the former party prosecutor's office to a new era and the continued presence of the remains of the previous state and mentality in the prosecutions were the cause and consequence of the significant inefficiency of the prosecution of contemporary crime, which began at the beginning of liberal capitalism. With regard to the acute problem of damage to social and state property, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by decision of 21 June 1999, requested the then Attorney General Zdenka Cerar's report on matters relating to damage to social and state property. It follows from the communication that 439 criminal complaints were lodged in this area between 1990 and September 1998. There are no names listed in the government's report, despite the fact that prosecutors prosecute suspects, i.e. individuals with names and names, while the report lists only names of individual companies such as Compass, DZS, BTC, Iskra, Color, Velana, Modern Interiors, etc. A thorough review of the report shows that almost half of these 439 cases were unsuccessful. 214 cases ended in Slovenian prosecutions, either for reasons of deviation from prosecution, rejection of the complaint or statute of limitations. The worst was at the Ljubljana District Attorney's Office, where of the 107 complaints filed, 68 failed. Let me mention that Jože Praprotnik spoke in detail about the Velan case I mentioned earlier before the commission of inquiry. As a small shareholder and former employees in Velana, he followed in more detail the course of criminal prosecution against leaders in Velana, which was launched at the Ljubljana District Attorney's Office in 1998, on the basis of the audit report of the Audit Agency. In the beginning, the case was led by Prosecutor Miran Železnik and was unsuccessful in the prosecution. In the case, more prosecutors were listed, but failed. All the charges were dropped. A Witness named Praprotnik mentioned several links, including political ones, among individual participants in the case. Zdenka Cerar, in her capacity as Attorney General of State, claimed, at the public invitation of the Procurator, that the Office of the Prosecutor of Velana is handling the case as a matter of priority. I will not mention the political links of Director Velana Andrej Lasic, but they are very interesting and will certainly attract any other citizen or citizen to read the report in detail. The penal legislation in Slovenia, which regulated the area of economic crime, was inadequately regulated. It did not adapt to social change and was based on old Yugoslav legislation from the era of socialism, which focused on criminal repression primarily on maintaining the political system of the then Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice in this Government, has prepared, and the National Assembly has adopted, after the veto of the State Council, a new criminal code of the Republic of Slovenia, which is creating a new legal definition of crimes in the field of economic crime, which Slovenian legislation has not yet known. This removes the legal void that existed in this area from the introduction of liberal capitalism in the old country, in early 1989, and from Slovenia's independence to today. However, if these changes do not come to life in practice, if the prosecutions do not consistently prosecute economic crime and the courts follow it quickly and without delay, perfect legislation in practice will not come to the fore. What is important is the fact that marriage standards live and are not just on paper. In addition to some cases in the field of economic crime, the Commission has also touched on Friday, the Popovic cases, the Ranc cases, the Depal village cases, and the Železnik cases, which I mentioned earlier. The railway case broke out in March 2004, according to Zdenka Cerar, who was interviewed as a witness, Miran Železnik was a capable prosecutor, a specialist in economic crime and was fully trusted by him as its chairman. At the beginning of March, the then Attorney General Zdenka Cerar transferred him to the Special Prosecutors' Group. It is a group dealing with complex cases and includes the best prosecution personnel. Upon the departure of Prosecutor Železnik, colleagues in his office found a large number of outstanding files. However, the railways’ unresolved writings continued until October 2004. The report, which was made by Matija Benulič on 29 October 2004 in the case of Železnik, which he succeeded, states that Prosecutor Železnik did his work in an untimely, reckless and unscrupulous manner and thus violated his working discipline. Among the extensive documents, as stated in the report that was found, there were over 80 files, letters from the District and District Court in Ljubljana to the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana, conclusions and judgements from the higher court in Ljubljana, some of the various offices sent by either parties, citizens, or the court, some expert opinions. The report concludes that such a situation and omission in the files, I quote, "the course of the individual criminal proceedings was not affected", the end of the quote. With this report, the Ljubljana District Attorney's Office has completely minimized the responsibility of Miran Železnik and indicated that such a way of working on the prosecution's office in Slovenia is normal. At the hearing before the investigative commission, the railway chief, Gorazd Fischer and Slavica Sketel argued that the computer system was obsolete for this kind of imprudentness and prosecution. And according to their statements from the hearing, the Minister of Justice is guilty of this. Attorney General Barbara Brezigar wrote to the Commission by letter of 2. 8. 2007 explained that the information system in the prosecutions has since 1993 enabled the filing of all cases, from complaints further and subsequently in all stages of criminal proceedings, to enable the prosecution, to solve a particular criminal case. It states that the status of outstanding cases at all stages can be identified in a consistent audit exercise. However, the condition is that all matters are entered and recorded in the relevant register. In the case of Iron and Steel, the question arises whether, in the absence of political conversion at the October 2004 national elections, the matter would have been investigated in such a thorough manner. From the way the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana has approached and led the investigation of this case, we can reasonably conclude that it does not. Let me sum it up. Firstly, the Commission notes and correctly states in the report that the work of Slovenian prosecutors between 2000 and 2004 was not satisfactory. This is shown mainly in the case of large backlogs, where the District Attorney's Office of Ljubljana is leading. Secondly, the registration record of incoming mail was demeaning, making it impossible for the computer to track individual cases. Thirdly, prosecutors in the past have shown insufficient interest in informing their work. I myself have asked virtually everyone who has been heard by the Commission in the field of the prosecution about the IT work of the prosecutions. And their replies point to the previous claim that the prosecution's lack of interest in informing their work. Fourthly, the prosecutions were humanely fed. Prosecutors were also not trained enough to prosecute individual forms of crime. Fifthly, due to outdated criminal legislation, the legal qualification of individual offences in the field of economic crime is difficult and in particular individual cases impossible. And six times, the location of state or social property has remained unsanctioned in most cases also due to ineffective prosecutions, which have sometimes been subject to the political influence of the ruling policy or to influential economic lobbying. In the New Slovenia Group, we are pleased that the Commission of Inquiry, on the basis of the situation found in the field of the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office in the period 2000-2004, proposes to the National Assembly specific measures and procedures. That's what I'm talking Firstly, professionally strengthen the prosecutions primarily with personnel who would be specifically qualified to detect and prosecute contemporary forms of economic crime and corruption. Secondly, adopt appropriate amendments to the Penal Code. Thirdly, adopt appropriate amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. Fourthly, change penal policy. Fifthly, to prevent political pressures and, above all, political influences on prosecutors and judges. Sixthly, re-expose and consider the appropriateness of the current regulation of the legal institution, the permanent mandate of prosecutors and judges. In the New Slovenia Group we are pleased to note that the National Assembly in this mandate has already taken some steps in the proposed new direction. Some, let me remind you of the persistent opposition to the adoption of the penal code, after great suffering. We are pleased to note that this government has had and has a great deal of attention to the human resources strengthening of the prosecutions and to improve the spatial working conditions. We are therefore pleased to note that the situation in the Slovenian prosecution and the conditions for good and efficient work are gradually improving. Members of the New Slovenia Group understand, however, that the work of parliamentary investigative commissions is mainly understood in the sense that, on the basis of the irregularities identified, they propose to the Commission of Inquiry, namely the legislative branches of the legislature, a legislative change which should to the greatest extent eliminate the possibilities and circumstances for irregularity. As some members of the Commission have been able to convince themselves, such a mission of parliamentary investigative commissions is a practice in mature democracies. The New Slovenia Group will support the report and the proposed conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry. We recognize the right of a member of the Commission, Mr Dusan Kumru, to a separate opinion, which is not acceptable to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Comrade Marjan Drofenik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u10	Dear Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we took note of the report of the Commission of Inquiry, its conclusions and the proposal for a decision. I must say that we agree with a number of observations that we do not want to make flat-rate assessments. Not to throw all the prosecutors in the same basket, but it is true that the general assessment of the prosecution's work is poor. The laity public itself notes that the Slovenian prosecution is apparently understaffed or under-supported by specialised experts in particular areas of economic or organised crime. In fact, the results of the commission of inquiry do not come as a shock, as, given the history and development of the prosecution, we know that, as such, the prosecution is slowly changing its image and role. The informationisation of work in this area has only been acquired in recent periods in its importance, as obviously there was no interest in it before. This was probably why there was no proper order of records and, as a result, backlogs were created for which the Slovenian public was informed. The Commission's report lists areas where the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office is particularly on foot. This is the area of legal qualifications of individual offences in the field of economic crime, explanations of concrete decisions, allowing policy influence on the decision-making of prosecutors, on the quality of state prosecution acts alone, on the use of alternative forms of resolution of cases, on the combination of cases against the same accused and so on. He was also in charge of the prosecutor's work. The supervisory checks that were made do not show a good picture. Although some steps have been taken in recent years to improve the situation in the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office. The fact is that today the conditions and conditions for good and effective work in the Slovenian prosecution are gradually improving, but we believe that it is still too slow. Although I do not feel called to judge the professionality of the prosecutor's work, let me say that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we agree that the prosecutions should be professionally strengthened with personnel who would be specifically qualified to detect and prosecute contemporary forms of economic crime and corruption, that political pressures and, in particular, political influences and the impact of lobbying on prosecutors should be avoided, and that the appropriateness of the current regulation of the legal institution of the permanent mandate of prosecutors and judges should be reconsidered. We will therefore support the decision proposed by the Commission of Inquiry in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u11	Thank you very much. My friend Willy Rezman won't be here. Ambassador Zmago Jelinčič The nobles will present the views of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u12	Nice hello to you all! According to the Slovenian National Party, the report of the Commission of Inquiry is correct, exact and perhaps too harsh. I will not go into the initial historical justification of the matter and the historical review, but I will go primarily to the debate on the conclusions proposed by the Commission of Inquiry, adopted and forwarded to the National Assembly. The first conclusion is that it is necessary to professionally strengthen the prosecutions primarily with personnel who would be specifically qualified to detect and prosecute contemporary forms of economic crime and corruption. The Slovenian prosecutions are professionally malnourished. To a large extent, these prosecutions have also been compromised to the point that it is not one case that has happened, that matters have become obsolete because prosecutors did not know how to take the matter forward, how to even deal with matters. But we do know even the case where, for other reasons, certainly - in my opinion - political and financial, someone put certain acts into a closet that were unattainable and only later came to terms, of course, this Mr Prosecutor has never been tried, never punished, because the crows do not exclude their eyes and this gentleman is today a lawyer. Nothing like this can happen anywhere in the world except in Slovenia. It is therefore necessary to adopt a decision when the Commission or this Commission of Inquiry requests that the current regulation of the legal institution of the permanent term of office of prosecutors and also of judges be re-examined and considered. Prosecutors, I can tell you, in so many cases, they don't know or know how to handle things. Therefore, a large majority or a large number of criminal applications simply fail to achieve their purpose because they are being disintegrated from the very beginning. Prosecutors are easily subjected to political pressure from friends, relatives, even close relatives, who are usually lawyers, often lawyers, and, of course, in this case, the outcome of a case, whether it will be processed or not, and so on. In this report, we did not mention any specific names with appropriate examples that could illustrate everything the Commission has found and also proposes in relation to its conclusions. For one reason. This is because Members do not have immunity. Members of Parliament have immunity only before prosecution, but anyone can drop a court order on us for the sake of profaning a good name and, of course, the Member will be punished. We already have such cases in the Slovenian Parliament. While, on the other hand, prosecutors, as well as judges, have absolute immunity. They can do anything, no one can touch them. Their branch of power is as untouchable as their incompetence and stupidity. But they have another rating when I compare them with the Members, that we go to the elections every four years, sometimes even earlier, and always weigh our work, while the Prosecutor, once sitting on his chair, heats it virtually to his death. I say until I die because we have such a stupid marriage that if someone doesn't want to retire, no one can retire him. And of course, these prosecutors, as well as the judges, are, in fact, the most direct divine substitutes on the globe, but only Slovenia. It would be interesting to introduce an Austrian case where judges, as well as prosecutors, or primarily prosecutors, are punished for stupidity, error, abuse of law, and the like. With us, I think the state budget would be quite well recovered from paying these penalties. The Commission also proposes that appropriate amendments to the penal code be adopted. Some of these changes have already been adopted in the new penal code. The fact is that this report was written before the adoption of the new penal code and this is also true for the proposal that appropriate amendments to the criminal procedure law should be adopted and that criminal policy should be changed. The change in criminal policy does not only mean what we have already adopted in certain acts amending the legal system of the Republic of Slovenia, but also means that the prosecutor who misuses his position to obtain certain, any positive points for himself should be punished. These points - this does not mean that he will just set his pocket to get something in his pocket of some envelope, but this can also mean something else; it also means showing up in front of certain friends before a certain political friend option is somehow benevolent and in a future account to be able to benefit from it. We have quite a few of these cases. It must be said that a large number of complaints from all Slovenia have been gathered in the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, how these gentlemen and ladies of the Prosecutors are doing. There was nothing positive about a single complaint, nothing. A huge charge, a huge amount of negative has been made out of those letters, letters, copies of judgements, photocopy of prosecution motions and the like, but we are here again not to open the names of incriminated prosecutors and prosecutors, precisely because the commission would certainly have received a few appeals to the court to pay a fine for profaning a good name. The fact that prosecutors accept such extremely foolish proposals in some cases is of no interest to anyone. It is interesting, however, that some prosecutors, because of political connections, have put certain pressure on some people and, let's say, indirectly, after the judge's judgment, to jail for being rewarded by transferring them to a higher job. This was mainly the case during the period considered by the Commission of Inquiry for the findings and assessment of the actual situation, etc. One of the conclusions of the Commission, which must be confirmed, is also that political pressure and, in particular, political influence on prosecutors must be avoided, of course, also on judges. These pressures were enormous. In a certain prosecutor's office, like Maribor, we can use something special to do there. There are special laws applicable, there is special law applicable, there is "lex mariborienzis". This is nowhere, this is a specificity and in view of the extensive documentation in which I was involved and which, for the same reason that I mentioned earlier, was not taken into account in this committee, I can say from my experience that the prosecution's decisions in some cases caused not only the laughs and crumbs of lawyers but even the accused that I am not talking about the audience in the Chamber. However, none of these prosecutors or prosecutors have been replaced, but they have received or obtained a greater position, a greater validity, so that they can do even more harm than they have done before. I have already said that it is imperative to highlight and consider the appropriateness of the current regulation of the Institute for the Permanent Mandate of Prosecutors and Judges. It's about time we stopped this. For it is this permanent mandate that gives this gentleman the opportunity to make a peaceful decision in accordance with political preferences, for they know that there is no God in this world that can tell them, but now go away. Such cases should take place in Slovenia, and I think that what happened in Romania soon after the entry into the European Union was replaced by several thousand judges and several thousand prosecutors in one week, but they simply threw them on the road. Europe clapped. Interestingly, then, Europe did not raise its voice and say: "Look what's going on, what a violation of human rights!" No, because Europe was precisely aware that it was these prosecutors and judges who violated human rights and that such people should be removed from the position that allowed them to do so. That's what we should do. However, in order not to go into such rigorous demands and procedures, the permanent term of office of prosecutors and, as a result, of judges should simply be withdrawn. The following conclusion must also be taken from this point of view: the immunity of prosecutors and judges must be aligned with the immunity of members of the National Assembly. If we are Members of the National Assembly, the highest representatives of the people in this country, if we adopt laws, we cannot be less valuable to the judges who have all the ratings that will sit on their chairs until death and will, of course, "share" the right to the right and will be untouchable. None of the prosecutors have yet been punished for the wrong cases, nor has anyone been punished for the false evidence presented by the prosecutors, since that is not enough. No one has been punished for the forgeries used by prosecutors to substantiate their case, none of them have been punished for disregarding the basic principles of human rights protection, those on the bench. Nobody. Prosecutors laugh at it all together and wave their hands, because they know that if this is not accepted, they can continue, according to their domestic words, "harve" in the field of law, as they feel and desire; of course, with the help of judges who, of course, are very closely connected with the prosecution's case. At the same time, we demand that it be ensured to the public that it has a review of the work of the prosecution. Now the prosecutions were quietly sending out information that they wanted to come to the public and - even repeatedly - deliberately incriminating certain people. In short, in the Slovenian National Party, we welcome this report in the parliamentary group and we will be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u13	Mr Boštjan Zagorac will present the position of the Lipa Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The report, as it is before us, is as expected. According to the Lipa Group, it was properly done, even more. I am even surprised at some of the points that have emerged in the proposals for conclusions. It is true that in the Lipa Group we expected from an investigative commission there might also be some concrete solutions, more concrete conclusions, perhaps even some specific names of one of the prosecutors who was in any way influenced by policy during the 2000-2004 period. This is not what we find in the report, but, finally, only the report is acceptable. As far as politicisation among prosecutors is concerned, it seems to me that it makes no sense to lose words about it and to see whether it exists or not. Last but not least, the Attorney General was competing for a political function. So talking about politicalization among prosecutors makes no sense if their head of prosecution is, among other things, competing in elections for certain candidates. As far as the proposed conclusions are concerned, if we give them a bit of attention: the first indent concludes that it is professional to strengthen the prosecution mainly with the staff, some new professional staff - of course, absolutely, why not. Adopting appropriate amendments to the penal code - according to your coalition belief you have done so, it is said that this second decision is completely irrelevant. Adopt the relevant amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act - you have already done so and this indent is completely superfluous. In view of what we have heard in the presentation of positions and in the debate on these two points, we now have a wonderful criminal code and an even more beautiful law on criminal procedure. So, the prosecutors will do better without fear from now on, at least that's what you've been telling us. Change penal policy - you've already done this in some area. And when we proposed changes in penal policy in other areas, you said there was no need, and it was well-ordered. That is also why this decision in this report, despite the fact that it was or was intended to come about before the changes in this policy, is totally superfluous. Preventing political pressures and, above all, political influences on prosecutors - you will have to take care of this in particular in your own kind, and I believe that you will. Re-emphasize and consider the appropriateness of the current regulation of the legal institution of a permanent mandate. You know, this story is old, and I think it's about three mandates. And whenever we reach it, I think there have been at least six proposals in this mandate for an extended debate on the permanent mandate of judges and prosecutors. And then, as far as I can recall from the outcome of the vote, I think that there was one, two or three coalition MPs at the time for such an extensive debate, but not all the others. But you do mention this in the Commission's report, even though you had the power to arrange this institution in this mandate, within four years. It's not like I don't know what a terrible project is, given that there's already been a story in Parliament for eight years. Now, why did you put this line in the report, you know. If you do this on your own, I must tell you that you will have the support of the Lip Group of Ambassadors when you regulate a permanent term of office, if you arrange it in such a way that a permanent term of office is given to the judges. Finally, without reservation, I can say that this is the project of the current Members of the Lip Group and, above all, of today's President-in-Office, Mr Pečet. And then there was simply no listening on your part; I hope that it will be possible at the next meeting if any such proposal for an enlarged debate arises. As far as providing the public with objective and transparent information on the prosecution's work is concerned, I think that, above all, when it comes to more brazen cases, those who are on the bench are best placed to take care of their public likeness and what horrors occur to them in the courts, although in the end they are mostly exempt under the influence of this public. Even those who are talking here today about "lex mariborienzis" and I don't know what else is happening to them and I don't know what kind of horrors are happening to them, but I never remember a case that someone who exploits this public in such a way is actually negotiating for their actions or their actions. So it seems to me that this "lex mariborienzis" someone here mentions even comes in handy to those who are eventually forgiven. I don't know why you have to worry about cases like this. As far as concrete proposals are concerned, which could possibly be part of this report, and if we were to talk about deplorable cases, these cases would not be lost in court. There are quite a few in Slovenia, if you remember them; first, synergies should be taken care of: synergies between the prosecutions, the police and the court. There's always something creaking around here and there's not always everything on the D.A.'s side. This should be highlighted. The police sometimes gossip and the judges sometimes gossip, but, not least, as I said, the report of the Commission of Inquiry is also gastrointestinal for the Lip Group of Members. We will support it, but we will certainly follow closely the implementation of the conclusions, as you have put them into reception today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u15	Thank you very much. And colleague Dimitrij Kovačič will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We will also support the proposed report and the proposed conclusions in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. It seems fair to us, however, to judge the period that the investigating commission has been processing to determine whether the prosecution has been successful, effective or not during this period. According to our firm belief, the work was not successful. That is why, on the basis of the findings of this failure, we have drawn up a report and are also proposing appropriate conclusions. Everyone has the right to a separate opinion, but of course a separate opinion, which speaks about it as if everything was in the best order, as if it were working successfully and effectively, does not, in our firm conviction, hold a serious judgment. It wasn't right. Finally, the fact that virtually all of the wild privatisation has taken place and remained unpunished is evidence that something has been wrong, even in the field of the prosecution, even if someone is working so hard and playing the role of the attorney of this prosecution, that everything is in order. It's not! And the ruling coalition did not demand or set up this commission of inquiry. This commission of inquiry was requested by the State Council. And Mr. Kumer, speaking here from the bench, not telling the truth, you know that very well. It wasn't a ruling coalition, but it was required by the State Council. And the Council of State demanded this on the basis of the proposal of Mr Zupan, a member of the LDS. So, just the opposite. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u17	Comrade Kumer, allow me. Only colleague Kovacic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u18	On the contrary, as the ruling coalition is said to have produced and politicised this. [[...]] On the contrary, you are politicizing those who say that this ruling coalition has prepared for its political propaganda is not true. And when we speak of the proposed conclusions, it is necessary to know that the period of the Commission of Inquiry 2000-2004 - Mr Anderlič, you can also listen, and the proposed conclusions refer to the conclusion of this period. [[...]] [[...]] They do not apply to today, because if we review the content of these proposed conclusions, then we can find that some of these things have been realized to date - since 2004. Therefore, of course, there is nothing in contradiction, which was also to be observed. However, as I have also seen some objections concerning the fact that, in some specific cases, the proceedings before the Commission are still pending and that the Commission should therefore not consider this, let me say that the Commission has not dealt with this. Since a specific name has been mentioned, Popovic is concerned, let me say that the Commission has only dealt with the part of this case which has been legally terminated. It was legally established by the Supreme Court that a certain detention was illegal. In this regard alone, the Commission of Inquiry has handled the matter. And everything else that's said and distributed just doesn't hold. Later, it'll probably be time for some more explanation. But since it is said that there has been no pressure from the prosecutions during the period 2000-2004, that this is just a political pamphlet, that there was no political pressure, that there were no capital pressures, I will only mention one significant case which is also recorded in this report, but I think it is sufficiently characteristic that I can especially expose it. This is an example of a state of spirit and sensitivity, or subject to political influence or pressure, which has often led to the failure of the prosecution to act and act in accordance with its powers laid down in positive laws, but has often dominated political or capital interests. This is the previously mentioned prosecution of Drag Kos and Roman Praha, who examined the telephone communications of journalist Ranc in the role of criminals without a court order. The current state prosecutor, who was in charge of the case, prevented the prosecution from continuing, so the prosecutor resigned as head of the Special Affairs Group because she considered it a grave offense to the independence of the prosecution and its autonomy. Furthermore, this case did not receive any epilogue, since the new prosecutor, who was assigned by the Attorney General, later withdrew from the prosecution. Later, in the rule of law proceedings, the Supreme Court found that the order to review the telephone conversations of journalist Ranc was illegal, that the conduct of criminalists Kosa and Praha was illegal and constituted a grave violation of human rights. And such a review of the talks would be illegal, as the Supreme Court has written down, so it would be illegal and illegal and would severely violate human rights, even if the court had previously approved a review of telephone calls, as such approval would be illegal. And when we review the political functions of the actors in this regard, when the Attorney General was appointed to this post by the then leading government party, from which also the former interior minister, who produced the Vič-Holmec affair, had to leave the ministerial post after the plot had been committed, and the Attorney General himself even replaced her prosecutor's office as the justice minister, for the function of the justice minister, and soon thereafter formally joined this political party in the post of Vice-President. So when we review these political functions, it is very difficult to get rid of the impression that the decisive political influences and pressures that I have now highlighted have led to a certain political interest. Was that really just an accident? Was it not, perhaps, related to these roles on the political floor? It would be hard to get rid of such an impression. This conclusion can be further strengthened by the fact that the current criminalist Kos, who has been legally established, has gravely violated human rights, then by means of the then government coalition appointed the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, who in this role once again exercises his very powers and does not show some minimum standards of political independence and neutrality. As it is said, this case is not isolated, which also comes from the report itself, where everything is not covered, as only a small segment of the entire prosecution activity in Slovenia could be investigated and selectively processed by the Commission of Inquiry due to limited possibilities. When we are talking about the period 2000-2004 and when they are sometimes evident, what about the period before 2000. Yes, of course, because this also comes from the report itself and also from what I said in the introduction that during the period following the independence of Slovenia this transitional time and transition of the role, i.e. the transformation of the role, the prosecution runs and has run all the way through the 1990s. And it's still running today. Not everything is still what it's supposed to be. It is much better, in particular something has been done since 2004, but we note that there have been virtually no changes from 2000 to 2004 and no positive changes. And the situation was practically the same as it was at the beginning of this investigation period in 2004, as the time will be later, Mr Anderlič, I will probably come by myself and give some explanation later, but because of all these things it would be irresponsible to keep our eyes closed, not to find out that the prosecution has failed to carry out its duties successfully, that it was not effective - we are talking about the period 2000-2004, which was imposed on us by the National Assembly - and that the proposed decisions should therefore be adopted. [[...]] [[...]] And the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the introductions, it is necessary to reiterate and point out that the Commission was not established at the request of this coalition or the Slovenian Democratic Party, but at the request of the Council of State of the previous reference, because the prosecution has objected, we have heard today, to an excluded member of the LDS and state councillor Adolf Zupan. Zupan argued at the time, that you will well recall that the politicians should be influenced by the prosecution, the work of the prosecution and, as a senior member or a former member of the then ruling party, he probably had a reason or an argument for such a claim. Unfortunately, Members from LDS and Zares did not participate in this committee, which would certainly contribute to a successful work, an effective work of this Commission because of their experience. In this very personal case, Adolf Zupan, when convicted by the District Court for a forged wife’s signature, also referred to immunity. And the Council of State has also acknowledged this immunity to him, and I think this is a precedent in this case, if we know that no Member in this reference has invoked immunity, and this has certainly been an abuse of the Institute of Immunity. As it is said, the commission of inquiry did not invent the SDS, but it certainly did its job correctly and was useful. The title of this commission of inquiry has also been a long one, and it also mentions that on the basis of our work, our findings may also serve to change legislation from that of the National Assembly. The Commission has identified and assessed a situation which is the basis for political decision-making, a decision on the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, and it has also not been possible in this report to avoid the use of names and surnames - including the fact that someone is a member of the LDS or that someone is a member of the Forum 21, especially if a former member of the LDS has so freely acknowledged how policy influences the work of the prosecution. I am also in favour of the proposal for a decision before us today, including the part that tells us that we need to reconsider the appropriateness of the current regulation of the legal institution of the permanent term of office of prosecutors. Today, judges strike for higher wages, as soon as the prosecutors can join them, they want to have the salaries of government representatives and as we have Members. I think they're right, prosecutors and judges deserve that kind of salary, after all, we know that the judges are also officials, and it's only right that they get the right salary for their work to be properly rewarded. Of course, it would be right to have rights and duties, as we have in some ways Members who have a limited mandate, that is a four-year mandate, or that the mandate of judges should be such as the mandate of the judges of the Constitutional Court, which is not permanent and permanent. We know, however, that the Constitutional Judges are the summit or pyramid of the Slovenian judiciary. One of the conclusions is also to ensure that the public is objectively and transparently formed and that the prosecutor works are formed. I think this decision is more than necessary. Prosecutors today live in a gray field of distance from the public. When the prosecution's indictment is given, the public loses contact with this event. The police in some way still keep the public informed in their activities, and in the prosecution's case, it all ends. And we never know whether there is an accusation or some file simply waits in the drawer to deal with the statute of limitations. And in these reports that we have had, the general supervisory review carried out at the District Attorney's Office in Ptuj, Kranj, New Town, there are no such cases. And the prosecutors are now completely cut off from civil control, from public control, so I think that such a proposal is on the ground and that such a proposal is also necessary. On this committee, we listened to the interesting testimony of various prosecutors. And to me, I must admit, I have the most in mind to speak to Prosecutor France Lengar, who for some time was the head of the DA's office on Ptuj. On the question of whether he knew Josip Lončarič, and that name was mentioned in connection with Prosecutor Glavar, the gentleman said whether it was possible that he might have been the one who was covering the roof of the A.D.A. Marjan Glavar. Is it the total ignorance of this gentleman who performed on a parliamentary commission of inquiry, or has he simply never opened a newspaper or had a darkened TV receiver? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Martin Mikolić has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! Initially, I would only point out that the Commission of Inquiry has identified the situation, it is said, for the period 2000-2004. That's why I was a little surprised by my colleague Kumra's debate on 1990-2000, which is said to have been released this decade. But the commission had this period. This period was somehow required to be reviewed, and on this basis there is also a report, it is said, on the functioning of the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office during this period. In doing so, I would say only that, certainly that period before that was not ideal. My friend Kumer was talking about Attorney General Petty Officer. I've been thinking, I'm sure that the frame that was at the time is really somehow, as far as prosecutors are concerned, from some period of continuity. We have to admit it, and it's hard to do it if it's that kind of frame. You know, a few weeks ago, when we discussed capital concentration or tycoons at an extraordinary meeting, there was also a lot of talk about personnel. You spoke a lot from the opposition about the personnel tsunamis. And the coalition then repeatedly explained why some needed to be replaced. And in this debate, which was just a few weeks ago, it was also found that it would be very good for someone else to be in the position of Director of the Securities Market Agency and the Office of Competition Protection. This is how I agree with these matters, as far as personnel are concerned, that the staff must be capable. And in the case of prosecutors, this issue has certainly been present in the past. I will support the proposed conclusions. There are indeed two decisions: to adopt appropriate amendments to the Penal Code, to adopt appropriate amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, which have already been in the legislative process. And we know what the debate was about the adoption of these two laws in the National Assembly. I supported them myself from this very point of view, because they are really interfering with the area of prevention of economic crime from a formal point of view quite differently than before. And it's right that we supported these two marriages. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Given that I have run out of time, I will conclude by supporting the proposals of the conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u24	Thank you very much. A serious consideration is needed whether, at the discretion of Mr Kovacic and others from the coalition, who had the majority and were able to decide on this investigative committee, it makes sense to talk about a sufficiently serious issue. It's about the state prosecutor's office today and years ago. The way this Commission has done so does not allow and does not allow for serious debate. Nevertheless, I am going to say some marginal things that may only shed light on the fact and contention that I originally said. It's not a report, it's a shame. It does not address matters, does not correspond to the actual state of affairs which is evident from the hearings. It's a political pamphlet. But that's just the way it is, and a few sentences about it. First. On the proposal to introduce this Commission of Inquiry, the Group of Social Democrats drew attention to the great potential for abuse in relation to this Commission of Inquiry. In view of the fact that the content of the work will become an assessment of the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor's Office in particular cases and in concrete actions, which is contrary to the role that the parliamentary investigation and the National Assembly may play. That's what happened. And this is seen when mentioning some specific cases. Second. We have noted that it is morally questionable to set up an investigative commission on a proposal from the State Council, the reason for which was the criminal conduct of a member of the State Council who was dissatisfied with being accused of having been charged with the suspicion of criminal service and who did not take into account or later took into account his immunity. And this was a time when it was about the specific conduct of one member of the State Council and the issue of immunity. And that was the reason why the request was triggered. Whoever remembers, but I am talking about the tapegram and the public; at that time we reached the first meeting of the National Assembly, that the State Council had to withdraw its first request because, to the best of all, those we objected to, we were Members and Members of the Social Democrats and then the LDS, we were also supported by the Legislative and Legal Service and said that the proposal, as it is prepared, was contrary to the role of the National Assembly and the law and procedure in the parliamentary investigation. This was later changed, to our amendments to the College's favorite, and in the end a completely different decision was taken on the tasks of this Commission of Inquiry, which the Commission also correctly cited in its report. But it correctly states, but it did not follow its contents. See, the purpose of the investigation is to determine the scope and content of the control actually carried out. This is the only task where the Commission partially followed its definition and stated that it was supervision and that they received reports. And the dot, the end. If it was intended, I could only say one sentence, so control was done poorly, well, necessary, timely, misleading, politically motivated and so on. She didn't say anything. Nothing. Why? Because she probably couldn't say anything else, as if this mission had been accomplished. Second. Identify the degree of involvement of individual public function holders and assess their political impact. At this point, the Commission is talking about the political impact of two: Mrs Ceraroveva and Mr Kučan - without any facts. So if, without offense, anyone who accuses me, anyone else comes forward, and then that fact is taken as sufficient evidence that I have indeed done the wrong thing, but is not prepared to face these facts or anyone else, then this is not a credible finding, and it is pure politics that the Commission has afforded itself. Identify the causes and circumstances that may cause illegal and responsible work. I think that the fact that the Commission has identified the situation of the Public Prosecutor's Office between 1945 and 1990 cannot answer all the current questions. However, I will not argue that in any part of the Commission's findings for a certain period are not even accurate. However, I would like to remind Mr Kovacic and others who have an excellent knowledge of Slovenian history or the history of the Slovenian prosecution and the judiciary of the following things. In the Law on Amendments to the Law on Supplements and Corrections to Crimes, we adopted amendments to the Law in June 2007 and, among other things, the Government, your government, ladies and gentlemen of the Coalition said and stated that when assessing the situation or giving an opportunity to make its conviction publicly public without the consent of their own, relatives and the like, the actual situation should also be taken into account, in particular, "the temporary reduction of repression in the political field and the gradual strengthening of the actual functioning of the rule of law, which took place between 1953 and 1967." This is a quote from the Government and the Minister of Justice, Prof. Dr. Lovro Sturm, in the National Assembly. That's when we asked him if that was true. And he said yes. At that time, there was a marked change in the attitude of repression in this country. The rule of law began to be strengthened in 1967. And so to speak of the same condition in 1945, when the repression was certainly the gravest, even in 1950, when it was certainly grave, and in 1990, only people who know absolutely nothing can speak, and it is their only joy to speak nonsense. But it's probably not very good for the National Assembly. I would like to remind you that, for example, the Constitutional Judge whom we recently elected, Dr. Mitja Deisinger, my good friend back in those days, was the Deputy Attorney General in the period before 1990. And I must say that I am sure that he was doing the right thing, that he respected the laws as they were, but that he also respected the rule of law and his duties and functions. He was then elected to Slovenia as the head of the section to prepare changes and additions to the federal penal code, at a time when article 133 was abolished and so on. But then this was done by a man whom we all now give him the impression that he is worthy of our trust. He must have been worth it back then. I have to say, you mention Mr. Petty Officer. I have also been in Parliament since 1990, even since 1992, when we discussed many problems at many meetings with the then Attorney General Anton Drobnik. And I tell you two, I guarantee you he never sued his state prosecutor's organisation, never said anything like Mr Kovacic that he couldn't work because the prosecutors were poisoned or sick or I don't know anything from the old regime and now they're working against the new country. Mr. Petty Officer never said that, Mr. Kovacic. Why didn't you call him? Why didn't you ask him? Regarding the specific issue of the large number of applications relating to the theft of property or property, Mr Drobnič said: "Very often these applications are not even worth the paper on which they are written". I'm not saying he was right, that's all he was saying. With this he wanted to say what you once did to Mrs Zdenki Cerar so horribly when she said that every bastard was not a crime yet. She just wanted to say, yes, the application can, and it's good to be able to, and it's right to be able to. But does the application have sufficient grounds to create reasonable suspicions and file an indictment, and there is still some work to be done from here on out. And sometimes the prosecutor may be incompetent when he may also be malicious and when the application is inadequate. I do not recall Mr Drobnic ever coming in those eight years and saying that the penal code should be amended. To ever come and say that because the penal code is bad, they cannot persecute thieves and those who steal social property or acquire social property. That's not true. Why didn't you interrogate him? Why didn't you ask him? Then there would be an objective image that could be useful. And I could also benefit from the possibility of something being done in a state prosecutor’s office today. Because today, too, some changes are needed. In your opinion, however, we had two, three discussions in the home work body related to specific cases of police conduct and the prosecution, where the crime of murder was committed. At that time, it was commonly established that there were problems in cooperation, in communication, in understanding the legal rules, in understanding the powers of the police and the State Prosecutor's Office. That's probably what we need to find out if we want anything. It is possible and it is right that we are talking about problems, but not by coming from this, dear fellow Kovacic, some pamphlet that is indeed a pamphlet. I would strongly recommend that you give it to the current Attorney General, Mrs Barbara Brezigar, who was also a prosecutor at the time. Thank God, no one's ever said anything over her profession and her behavior. Give her an assessment of whether you would sign such a report that you have made. And I'm just curious, no matter what, because she's never talked about her colleagues in the D.A. before, like you say. Ladies and gentlemen, who benefits from this? Who? And in the end it is concluded that those who are lazy and incompetent are not persecuted. Maybe. Finally, it is concluded that, as a result of this sustainability of the judicial and prosecutorial mandates, it is an inappropriate solution. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst path that can be chosen. I know that this report will be adopted, it is a shame to talk about it, but you will certainly not benefit from it, except, as has already been said today, the degradation of this Parliament, as well as the role and manner of work of the investigative commissions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u25	Thank you very much. My friend Kovachich, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I think my buddy Runt and I have some behavior about what our history was like. I'd hardly say who's a better acquaintance of this period. We certainly have a very different view of this period. Someone's looking at this period from some glorified slopes, someone else, but it's nothing wrong. However, I must object to the fact that it has ever been said that the work of the Prosecutor in the 1990s, at a time when he was led by the former Attorney General, was effective, more successful and so on. None of this was said anywhere. But it is true that the time frame for our work is 2000-2004, so we had to focus on that. When we talk about the transitional period after 1990, after the independence of Slovenia, the transformation took place all the time, as I said before. Unfortunately, there has been no significant progress in the period under investigation by our Commission from 2000 to 2004. Even more. We have found some cases where, directly based on political pressures, capital pressures and so on, have affected the work of the prosecutors themselves. And that's what the report's talking about. However, when you mentioned how the Commission was set up, and once again, I must say that the National Assembly had to, he was obliged to set up a commission after the State Council had requested it. If the National Assembly then followed your position, Mr Potč, and your colleagues, then it would be illegal if it did not set up an investigative commission, because that is what the law requires. If so requested by the National Assembly, the National Assembly is obliged to set up an investigative commission. As for what you said in the end, or the work of the commission of inquiry is demeaning the reputation of the commission of inquiry and would only remind you of that. Your colleague, also from your parliamentary group, runs one of the investigative commissions, where this work actually leads to a very sensationalist and without any real basis. And I'll say something later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u27	Thank you. Member Mitja Ljubeljšek has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u28	Thank you very much. A respected choir! A separate opinion by a member of the investigative commission of the party of the Social Democrats states, inter alia, that the report of the investigative commission was a well-designed political pamphlet - this has also been heard recently - especially the largest government party that has held a fig in his pocket from the very beginning. Not only was I surprised by the divergent opinion of Mr Kumar's Commission but I am surprised and even appalled by the fact that there is so much cynicism, indignation, hostility, shame and underestimation not only among the members of the Commission, but also of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that one wonders how someone can carry so much negative energy within one. The fact is that the Commission of Inquiry has appointed the National Assembly to identify the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the matter of the State Prosecutor's Office only for the period 2000-2004. The Commission did not have any authority to explore the period 1990 to 2000, which is something the car would like very much and is also clear to the Commission. The fact is that the role of the Public Prosecutor in the period 1945-1990 was strongly political and influenced by and entirely dependent on the policies of the time, which indisputably also reflected in the later period and is likely to take place today in individual cases. That can't be denied, whether someone likes it or not. This claim is therefore neither flawed nor politicised in the Commission's report. I fully agree with the proposal for a decision of the Commission of Inquiry and will also support it, because I claim that the Commission of Inquiry is in the position it had and at the time it had the basic and key tasks at its disposal to carry out properly and with dignity and, as such, to present them in the National Assembly. In view of the Commission’s finding that the work of prosecutors during this period was not satisfactory, the author of a separate opinion considers the report to be an unfortunate, unconscious or unconscious attempt at lustration or disqualification of prosecutors and their reputation. I ask whether it means to demonstrate the errors of some untouchable in this country of lustration and disqualification and duplicating. I'm afraid it's hard to tell. Every man creates it himself, and he spends it himself. In the cases of Velana, Friday, Popovic, Ranc, Depala you, I have no doubt at all that there were no political influences. However, I will touch on only one case in the report, this is the case of the Railways, which the author of a separate opinion does not mention in amazement. The railway was reassigned by the state's attorney Zdenka Cerar to a group of special cases prosecutors, a so-called elite group of prosecutors. On leaving for another function, the railway left 377 criminal cases. The question is whether they were all found in closets, boxes and briefcases and in the closet of a colleague who didn't even know about them. The report, which was drawn up by the Iron Association Prosecutor's Office, stated that the work was carried out in a timely, unscrupulous and unscrupulous manner and thus violated the working discipline. At the end of the D.A.'s report, I find it alarming and incredible that such a situation did not affect the procedures. I'm asking, where were they and what were they doing in charge, what were the controls, how was that possible? What were the external political influences? Since the report concludes that such a situation did not affect the procedures, we can only conclude that such a way of working on the prosecutions in Slovenia between 2000 and 2004, especially because, according to Mrs Cerarjeva Miran Železnik, the prosecutor was able to do so and was primarily entrusted to him as its chairman. I'm asking who's being misled here, and who can afford such cynicism to everyone in this country. I am sure that if the Commission of Inquiry had enough time to go into the investigation of individual criminal cases that had been forgotten in the railways' cabinets, there would be a lot of reasons to forget, and I am sure that it is not the cause of neglect, but everything else. And these infamous cabinets are not mentioned in a separate opinion at all. That's probably some special reason. It is undeniable that the report of the commission of inquiry was not produced after the vats of the author of a separate opinion and, among other things, he has written down extremely offensive allegations about the report, and I quote: "In short, it is primarily a disgrace to the largest government party of the SDS, which mainly rules and carries out the country." Here, Mr. Member of the SD Party, you went over the edge. The text in this text is extremely offensive, and I feel personally hurt. All I can understand is that they are manners and a behavioural model of a Member of Social Democracy. And since today, in the same tone and in the same content, he also presented the position of the SD Group of Members, this is also reflected in the fullness of the Group of Members and the SD party. The claim that we are talking about honesty in the Slovenian Democratic Party's pocket is extremely incorrect. Let me say that without a fig in my pocket, I have called for honesty at the beginning of my mandate with the prophetic words of Dr. Terstenjak that we will be Slovenians when honesty will no longer perish than the nation. And some of us are constantly drawn to it at this time. Surely, though, your words about social justice and the rule of law are only words with a fig in your pocket. Due to the political popularity of the public in the SD party, you claim that if you win the elections, you will lead this country differently. I believe so. Otherwise, you have led it to 1990 and without the paranoia you are reading, even in this separate opinion, you can see that the spirit of past times is still creeping in your species. At the end of the report, the Commission proposed conclusions that would facilitate the work of prosecutors, in my opinion, but in particular improve and I will therefore support the proposed decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Replica, Comrade Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm going to be very brief on this replica. First, I would say no and once again - read a separate opinion! In no case do I refer to the fact that in the past period for which the Commission was set up, everything was fine. Far from it. This also proves what is also obvious to me, why I did not write the Ironworks case in a separate opinion. Of course, because I agree with what is stated in the Commission's report. Why would I go into things I agree with?Oh, my God! And finally, if you drag me by the language for a long time, then at the end, when I have the debate, I will specifically serve you with documents on one passage, on one passage, concerning the Korean tycoon with your members who are involved in this political story in the year 2000, if we are already talking about it. And I don't think that politics has had an impact on the prosecutors. But if you drag me by my tongue, I will present these documents to you at the end of the discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. Comrade Petty Officer is not among us. However, Member Rudolf Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. This is a report by the Commission of Inquiry which identifies the political responsibility of the holders of public functions and all those bodies listed above, in particular the area of judicial authorities. It is said that the Commission can investigate, identify, collect documents, but it is not an investigative commission. I don't think we'd lose words. But I think I need to mention it. More than the report, there is only an interestingly separate opinion on this report. It's very typical. There's a lot to learn from this. The fact is that this separate opinion denies the findings, blurs out certain findings of this Commission and accuses it of the facts found on this Commission. It's just an excuse for strange circumstances and actions in the past. In this separate opinion, the President of this Commission shall be accused. It's even written down to undermine the reputation of the commission. Listen. Allow me to remind you of your fellow Member of the SD, Mr. Cwickle. But if someone lowers the standard of the commission or the reputation of the commission, look a little bit, there's not much to look at - what he's doing, how he's doing, how he's organizing the work, how he's making fun of the public, how he's making fun of everyone who's there, how he doesn't respect the rules of procedure and so on. And maybe I just remember yesterday's part, but I forget everything else. Everyone who thinks otherwise is complaining, as stated in their separate opinion. It is said that these are the stupidities of those who think otherwise, as stated in this separate opinion. It even denies credibility and objectivity. This is said to be the only one who thinks as it is written in a separate opinion, of course I do not think that this opinion is just an opinion of the author who is signed here, this is the opinion of many others. I agree with the fact that many do not agree with what it has found and what is written in this report, it is said that what the Commission has found and which is also stated in this report, which has also been adopted by the Commission, that many do not agree. I also know that many people have a lot of experience in how certain things need to be thought out, because some have started with such work very early, when they had the title, say in Ljubljana it was the Eternal Path, and they have a lot of experience in this life. And this special report of a separate opinion results in a single negative energy. One wonders where so much negative energy can come from on the work of a commission, since probably not everyone on the committee is stupid and only makes such strange decisions. Only those who oppose it are right and know everything. This separate opinion accuses those who find something that was wrong. This is a test of the opposition method and given that the party in whose member is signed under this separate opinion also supports this separate opinion, accuses those who show or find the thief, not the thief himself. Apparently, the thief is protected here, enjoys all protection, maybe even immunity or something, but above all I can say that he can hide things under the secrecy of the documents. And this is also the case with the second commission led by a member of this party. This separate opinion is a mere defamation of the Commission and the President, as I said, and an excuse for some old methods. In doing so, he wants and may also want to cover up various forgetfulness in this branch of government, on the various vaults where the acts were locked, so that nothing can be found that something would be hidden, so that time would then accomplish its various negligences and so forth. And as I've already said, it's about concealing documents from the public, justifying such acts, obviously someone's afraid of the public, so they're hiding the facts. May I remind you again of this famous investigator 8x8 where, despite the fact that the members of the commission have decided to have the meeting held in public, the president voluntarily cancels it and again says he will perform under the cloak of secrecy. So that then you can recharge what was on the committee and what wasn't, because there couldn't be any public. There weren't any reporters, and then there was a lot of stuff going on. Allow me to remind you of the investigation into the event that happened to our fellow Member Friday, when even under the cover of concealing evidence, snow cleared when it was possible an inch and a half, otherwise these same services do not clear the roads when there is half a metre of snow on a particular slaughterhouse. It is said to be hiding in one form or another. When it comes to documents, these are, of course, confidential documents. And also with regard to the investigation that took place most in Koroška, in connection with this heinous act against colleague Petko. When the D.A. said, let it be "fifty or holy" and so on, it is said that she simply made fun of him, from his last name, from procedures that she should have done and so on. This is said to be a strange light on the work that this report deals with, and to which this Commission has also become entangled. The fact is, it's the same pattern everywhere. Allow me to remind you, however, of the conduct of the chairman of the commission dealing with the Owl. Likewise, it hides again under some secrecy of documents, and even though some documents are discovered, this applies nothing, but something else is "loaded". There must be a curtain between the public and the reality of these documents so that you can speak whatever you want. And I don't know if all documentation that has a code of confidentiality will really have to reveal this confidentiality so that citizens and citizens can convince themselves. Let me finish this slowly. I would also say that this typical behavior of some who are very disturbed by the public’s knowledge of what is happening has led me to think of some of the things that are known, but says that sheep would be preferred and most known by the wolves. Of course, I support what is stated in this report. I also support these concluding thoughts, which were in the form of conclusions, by supporting the adoption of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We continue on the basis of the list of applicants. I'm supposed to have a word with Dr. Slavka Gaber. [[He's not here.]] My friend just Bevk. [[He's not here.]] My friend Lucky Hwauc, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u34	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. Let me begin by saying this: I will also support this report and the conclusions of the Commission with conclusions. Let's start in a row. One of the conclusions states that the reasons for the specific decisions of individual prosecutors were repeatedly inadequate or inadequate because they did not give the impression that the decisions of the prosecutors were based on reasoned arguments, but that often the explanations were adapted to the decisions and not the other way around. From the fresh case of the prosecutor's decision on this, and otherwise we are talking about injury in the Orion affair, it is quite clear. In his explanation, High Prosecutor Boštjan Penko wrote as follows when he decided to withdraw from the prosecution and when he decided that Orion was completely clean for him. Following the completion of the investigation into the Orion case, Chief State Prosecutor Boštjan Penko withdrew from the prosecution by assessing that there was insufficient evidence to proceed with the criminal proceedings or to file the indictment, they reported. "The investigation lasted two and a half years and so we collected enough evidence," he says, "that we could establish reasonable suspicions, but the relative evidence produced was not enough to prove the apparent crime of fraud." That's Mr. Penk's statement. And then it ends by saying that if anyone thinks, that is, those who have been harmed to commit a crime, he may, within eight days of receiving the court's notice that the prosecution has withdrawn from prosecution, take up the prosecution himself. Well, let's see. Mr Boštjan Penko, the Attorney General, who is specially trained for crime, has certain jobs around him. For two and a half years, he prepares and realizes and concludes that the matter is clean, that those who brought Orion here have done lawfully, honestly. There is no suspicion of a criminal offence for him to apply for prosecution. Ladies and gentlemen! You can imagine, one of the ordinary citizens, and now in eight days when he gets this notice, he should submit if he thinks that something is, i.e. reasoned enough backed up, etc., to the court to prosecute in his own name. First-class cynicism. Poor state's attorney-general that she had so many state attorneys around her. Not just like that, such a senior state prosecutor. It is also a shame for this country to eventually have such a great expert go to a neighbouring country and today there is one of the advisers in one country. What? What does he suggest? However, we should also ask ourselves in this country. But it's a pattern that repeats itself. Shall I tell you why it repeats itself? I'm sorry. The next decision, which he writes and which I will gladly support, is because the truth is what he writes, but the truth is what I prove with concrete cases. It reads as follows: In most cases, the place of state or social property has not been sanctioned either because of ineffective prosecutions, which have sometimes been subject to the influence of the ruling policy or the influence of economic lobbying. You know, my heart hurts, and even I'm ashamed that we've been discussing this for nine years after we could stop some things, but some things have led to where it was needed. What am I talking about? I am talking about the conclusions drawn up by the then Commission for the Injury of Social Property. These conclusions were adopted by the Commission. But what happened to these conclusions when they were accepted on the committee? Do you know what happened? Since 1999 a person has forgotten little or since 2000, at the proposal of a fellow Member, who is still here today, Mirana Potrča, a decision has been taken in the National Assembly not to consider the report. Of the 60 Members present, 29 voted in favour of withdrawing the report, 28 voted in favour. Clearly, these gentlemen were very afraid of the broader debate on economic crime in the country. Why, it's perfectly clear. It involved their political partners. And that's true. In this report, as in today's case, some of the conclusions cited by this report have been clear, and some of these issues have been discussed or have been discussed mainly in the years 1996-2000. See also today's report deals with the involvement of the former president of the country, Mr Milan Kučan. Also in 2000, Decision No 9 stated that Mr Milan Kučan had changed the statement of knowledge of Paul Kodra before the commission of inquiry and had wrongly stated that Vila Pleško had made a statement before the witnesses and had been certified by the notary, which was not appropriate for the President of the State. You can imagine, in his capacity as president of the country before the commission of inquiry, he was misleading the entire Slovenian nation. I'm not surprised that he won't be able to do that later, when he doesn't have that function anymore, because he has that power and opportunity today. Since I have read this second decision, which I will support, regarding damage to social property, I must say the following. Mrs Zdenka Cerar became the Attorney General of State in February 1999. The Investigative Commission unanimously agreed that I would like to congratulate him on his success, by the way, even the Court of Justice then, no, an association of judges recommended that he was one of the supreme judges, that he then came to the bar. So the investigative commission has decided to press charges against Judge Šubica, who, as you know, has not written a judgment condemning Mr Pavel Koder and Uroš Aljančič for eight months. And since the judgment was not written, there was a political process that I will talk about in the meantime. When the Commission decided to press charges, and unanimously, for Judge Šubica, this case was dropped by the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana or the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, I don't know exactly, but it gave way to the State Attorney's Office in New Town. That's right. District Attorney Niko Bricelj, when he received this application and should have handled this story, he explained to the Minister of the Interior why he would not do so. And he said, for the first time, the first reason why he wouldn't do it was because it went through and it was a matter within the judiciary: the courts, the prosecutions, the lawyers. Do you imagine this cynicism? The D.A. before, but not that, because that's inside of us. And we are like the Pope, we are infallible. You're so funny! You know what could have happened? So, "I won't deal with it," colleagues and colleagues! This is where they started, and here were the bases, where all the information was given on the tray. Colleagues and colleagues, those who are at the trough, give, take, steal, nothing will happen to you! That is why today we also have what we have, some extremely rich tycoons, the thugs who have taken over and enriched themselves at the expense of the citizens and citizens of this country, at the expense of those who have been unemployed for decades over 100,000 people, and also at the expense of today's low wages for workers. The second reason given by Niko Bricelj, then the District Attorney, is that the case of Šubic is of an older date, in fact, has been dragging on with more visible controversy since 1995, when it became publicly known that part of the case, the essential part, has become obsolete. We are now at this crucial point in why this matter is obsolete. This issue is outdated because politicians, the Liberal Democracy and then the United List, the current Social Democrats, who are predicting at the time of the takeover of the autumn authorities that they will change the matter, of course they will change it, as they already have, and they will probably do something else, and they will probably introduce some secret official papers. They have practice with this. During that period in 1994, the Penal Code, article 240 of the Penal Code of the former Penal Code of the Socialist Federal Republic of Slovenia, was amended and now became the new Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia. What happened? Those crimes for embezzlement and so on, which would have been condemned from three to five years, have changed that the offences were only for conviction of up to three years. That wasn't the point. But the point of all of this is in article 112, where it says, "Fleet and breaking, statute of prosecution." And it says that prosecutions are obsolete in any case if they run twice as long as the law of statute of limitation of prosecution requires. And look, that was the point of why Mr. Šubic didn't write the judgment. Because it was obviously agreed with the policy that the policy would cover this. How's she gonna cover it? By amending criminal law in the National Assembly. Who was the Attorney General at the time? And when they did, Judge Šubice wrote a judgment in December. She was engaged to those who had been convicted, Paul Kodru and Uroš Aljancic in January. They complained about it, I'm afraid Karitas lent them some money so they could write a complaint or not. In short, colleagues and colleagues, since 1992 it has been stolen with such open arms and it is difficult to get something small on the right track within four years. But that's what's been going on. But now that things are slow coming on the day. Did anyone ever think that anyone ever imagined - I didn't actually believe that after nine years I would be able to speak before the Slovenian public in the Slovenian Parliament about the 2000 report adopted by the then commission of inquiry? Well, they say the truth comes a day, but sometimes it takes a very long time. But they'll be behind bars slowly, not only will the truth come on the day, but I believe that all those, or not all of them, will come behind the gates, at least some of those who have carried out these indiscretions. And that's it. It is high time to deal with such things before the public, and it is high time for us to tell the public what is the truth. And the last decision that was not to be discussed in this Slovenian Parliament, which was adopted by the Commission at the time, was: "The Ministry of the Interior must fully investigate," Rudi, "to investigate the arms trade with Libya, which was carried out by Mr Dolfe Vojsk and Uroš Aljančič, with Elan's guarantees through a private company in Sweden." That's the way it is. You shouldn't have talked about that either. But today you're talking about some patriots when there was a call when everything was so much like that on the palm of your hand. Perhaps one of these gentlemen has gone somewhere else. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Tone Anderlič, when you led one of the largest groups of Members, now you're snarling here, but not me, you're grumping at yourself, Tone Anderlič, you're snarling at the Slovenian people because you were snarling at the time when you voted that this report wasn't going to be considered! [[...]] And this time. Thank you!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u35	Member Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u36	I have not applied now after this grave fall of Mr Puksic, who apparently believes that with flat-rate convictions, spitting everything on the average, and only what has been prepared in their manipulative headquarters will be the truth and will be caught. Gentlemen, since you were yourselves gentlemen on this investigative committee, you have set yourself up with a very difficult task: to settle with the prosecution period from 1945 to 2004. Findings, general findings under point 4. Mr President of the Commission and the one representing the SDS position even said, "We have ruled on a period of time, politically." Very brave, very brave. That you ambitiously set yourself the goal that you, who will put 59 years of history where it belongs, and actually evaluate it, is ambitious, you could say that it is presumptuous, that it is subjective, one way or another. But let's go see what the law says. The law in Article 1 states: "Parliamentary investigation in matters of public interest shall be carried out to determine and assess the actual situation." You didn't find anything, you didn't say anything about the actual state of affairs in the report, but it was only what Mr President of the Commission freely admitted: "We have judged." You got a few more satellite votes, and you decided that. You did not do what you should basically - draw up a list of witnesses in the evidentiary decision and also set out the rules of the investigator or more investigators because it is a long period. Here you talk most about the period from 1992 to 2000, the period where the state prosecutor was a 9-year-old man who is a solid member of some extremely hard core of this current government coalition. And you're talking about it, not a word of it. Today, it has already been said here that every year a report by the prosecutor’s organization has been discussed. They are now. I am surprised that at that time in 2000-2004 the period in which the entire organisation moved before 1990, i.e. the prosecution's organisation, is such that your claims were that there was some progress at a time when the prosecutor was a member of your species, and later this moved back to a period of tough regime. Please! And if you're talking about what you wrote in this report - once again - if you're saying, "So imaginatively targeted prosecutors, after the independence of Slovenia, had great difficulties in adapting to the new concept of effective persecution of new forms of economic crime, which has become the most prosperous in the transition period." Yeah, who was directing the D.A.? The Attorney General, if I know anything. He directs them, does not direct them in accordance with previous laws, current law and also directs Mrs Barbara Brezigar, who was the head of the special group of prosecutors in the case of Depala you, arms trade and all sorts of things. What are we talking about? If you want to evaluate this period, I do not have a problem with this, but evaluate it objectively, and above all follow what the Law on Parliamentary Investigation imposes on you. This law is similar to that of Germany and some other laws on parliamentary investigations. You've probably had a chance to get to know how these things go there. Never by way of accusation, flattening, making some grades. You haven't even read it, obviously, when you say you're only talking about the period 2000-2004, but in general conclusions it's all about the period from 1945 onwards. And more than that, here you're even saying that after 1988, I don't even know what we'd really like to prove in this context. Given that you have dealt selectively with cases that some witnesses did not want to be heard, others who had something to say, to confirm your assumptions, insinuations, etc., of course you have invited. Why haven't you identified the subject? I'm curious because it's a duty under the law. If you claim that someone is guilty, that person is guilty, etc., determine. You did not do this because, as a rule, it is necessary to do so under Article 6, if you would like to find out. But if you want to accuse what you're doing, then it's enough what you've done. But it's okay. I'll just say it again myself. You said it was a consequence of this commission because of an alleged case. I suppose so, but you forgot to say that the LDS of this gentleman who was then expelled from the LDS for such work because of what he was doing. And we didn't get those things. Clearly, you were right to abuse this case, to use it to excuse yourself now that you had to do so. But it is no big deal, I even believe, and I always advocate that, just as the time situation is changing and the new knowledge in particular areas is found that the legislation is changing, that it is complemented, that certain gaps that cause or allow some privacy in all these matters are being resolved. It's a normal start. After all, there would be no need for Parliament, no government or other institutions at all. So don't think that's a big conclusion if you say or list what laws need to be corrected, supplemented, upgraded, etc. They are ahead of you, in front of us, and they will be behind us and behind you, because it is the logic of the legislative branch of power to monitor developments in individual areas, in the areas of implementation of individual subsystems, the functioning of individual institutions, and that it also builds up, changes etc. And you're also trying to get yourself into another manipulation when you're actually listing what things should be done in the future. Many cannot be opposed. And I don't want to argue with them either. But the context in the way you brought it up is, of course, reckless. Everything was wrong before, and now we are going to change all these things, because this is due to the finding of the state in the field of the Slovenian Prosecutor's Office in the years 2000-2004. Wrong. Why? Once again, the annual reports that we discussed in the 2003 National Assembly, 2001, 2002 and in the end 2005 did not include these observations. You had the opportunity to answer for them there. For me, the thing is manipulated, it's not what the commission of inquiry should do under the law. For, once again, I stress, there is always an investigative committee set up at a time when a holder of a political function or of a public authority to determine whether or not he has worked in harmony and so on, and if not, that the National Assembly may decide on his conduct. And the basis for deciding at the National Assembly is very clear in Article 1 what it should be like and how it should be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Dara Lovtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'd agree with what the forerunner just said. And it is clear from this that, dear colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, that the former Prosecutor of State, Mr Anton Drobnic, cannot thank you for the message, as the Commission of Inquiry has written with the signature of Mr Dimitri Kovacic, President. And you cannot be grateful for this report, nor can the current state prosecutor, Mrs Brezigareva, who, during the nine-year term of office of Mr Drobnič, was his closest, so to say the closest co-worker on the State Prosecutor's Office. However, as regards the period during which this Commission of Inquiry was established, this is the period 2000-2004, it is clear, of course, that the Commission of Inquiry has not actually been able to investigate and prove any of the reasons why this Commission of Inquiry was set up. Personally, it has been clear to me from the outset, since the establishment of an investigative commission, and especially since the beginning of the direct operation of this investigative commission, that it is a farce; a farce through which the ruling coalition would deal with political opponents. Of course, it is too much to point out that the Commission of Inquiry has resorted to these issues in a non-professional manner, not taking into account the fundamental principle that it cannot deal with and assess the conduct of specific cases before the Prosecutor's Office and the Court. This does not belong to the powers of the commission of inquiry, but also to the members of the commission of inquiry, you will have to tell me this, you are not yet and are not qualified to do this. Thus, it is more than obvious that the Commission has used even some unacceptable tricks, such as that of hearing mainly those who are dissatisfied with the work of the prosecution, because they were directly involved and affected by individual procedures and are therefore undisputedly biased. The members of the Commission also asked witnesses, among other things, to question the unacceptable suggestive and capricious issues. It was often the obvious and clearly visible purpose of certain people but a priori to discredit. And this has to be acknowledged again, this investigative committee has succeeded in a number of ways, especially because the media then reported on these things in what way they are. The Commission has often also referred to the professionality of the work of prosecutors, which is unacceptable, and there are many other elements that suggest that the Commission has been moving on the brink of legality throughout its activities. However, everything tells us that Members of the ruling coalition have continued to state since the establishment of the commission that the investigating commission has the same powers as the court. Yes, God help! Indeed, this is a matter of great concern. Those who adopt the Law on Parliamentary Investigation, those who adopt the Rules of Procedure for the work of the Commission of Inquiry and those to whom respect for legality should lead should not in fact have a basic understanding of what the powers of the Commission of Inquiry are. That's really worrying. In fact, the report is a political pamphlet and a disgrace to the one he voted on and signed. The report does not carry out its findings and assessments from the content of actual testimonies. However, if I have done so and yet there, it is highly selective and takes into account only those testimonies that coincide with the initial substitution of the ruling coalition and with the main motive for the establishment and functioning of this commission of inquiry, namely to discredit and account with its political opponents. Also, as we say, the "time" publication and consideration of this report in the National Assembly is very happy. We know. The election's in front of the D.C. I do not claim that there has never been any pressure on the prosecution by any policy or enforcement authority. However, this report, which we are considering today, certainly does not provide a credible answer to this question and, of course, there is no evidence whatsoever. What did the investigative committee find? She found such general things about which sparrows are already chirping. That is to say, professionally or she has found that the prosecutions in the past have not shown sufficient interest in informing their work, the prosecutions have been humanely malnourished. Likewise, prosecutors have not been trained and specialised enough to prosecute individual forms of crime, the legal qualification of individual economic crime offences due to inaccurate and, above all, outdated criminal legislation is difficult and specific individual cases are impossible, etc. These are the findings that this commission of inquiry reached during its duration of operations, as far as I know, for about two years or more. What, then, are the conclusions proposed by this report or the Commission of Inquiry? It is necessary to strengthen the Prosecutor's Office professionally, in particular with personnel who would be specifically qualified to detect and prosecute contemporary forms of economic crime and corruption, in order to adopt appropriate amendments to the criminal code, the criminal procedure law, in order to change criminal policy and so on. Yes, for God's sake, did an investigative committee have to be set up to do that, and this investigative commission has spent so much time and finally tax money? Gentlemen, the commission of inquiry has obviously failed to perform its task. It has not identified the political responsibilities of specific holders of public functions in relation to the enforcement of supervision under the State Prosecutor's Office Act. This is not mentioned in the report, not in the findings, nor in the proposals for conclusions. And one more thing, the work of this commission of inquiry is an example of how the commission of inquiry should not work. It is a practice that even the existence of naked facts is politically voted by the members of the Commission, depending on which political options they belong to. So, gentlemen of the coalition, you're in power, you have a majority, you can vote everything. Thus we could also write this report, exactly as we are dealing with it today, without an investigative commission, and so today you will also be able to vote whatever you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Kovacic, on behalf of the proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u40	Thank you. I'll give you an explanation, given the debate. Well, in the end, it was said that the work of this commission was an example of how it was not supposed to work on investigative committees. And this is precisely what the representative of that parliamentary group said, where a member or chairman of the other commission of inquiry is working on the basis of sensationalism, based on the fictional claims that it launches every day in the media, which convenes the hearings of the commission of inquiry with today's to-morrow, which does not respect the conclusions that this same committee has voted on yesterday, and which also sits normally - not today because it is absent - with a colleague who has just discussed. So I could ask myself very closely how an investigative commission operates on the basis of fictional things. Once again, I must say that none of what is written is based on fiction. Everything written down is based on actual data, findings, facts, official records and so on. If you find anything, one thing that's not based on this foundation, say it! You won't find it. You yourself are talking about the findings that they stand, talking about the political responsibility that it is not, but the one that is directly expressed and which is in a very popular form listed as the objective responsibility of the Attorney General at the time, but it is said that this is an attack, this is a discreditation and so on, as if the discreditation was something, so the fact that you find the objective responsibility of the one who led the institution that failed. It's amazing. It's amazing. I will also repeat once again that the National Assembly had no choice whether to set up a commission or not, but if it respected the law, then, at the request of the State Council, it had to and was obliged to set up an investigative commission. He had no other responsibility and those who advocated that the Commission of Inquiry was set up to politicise and that a motion should be rejected and such a commission should not be accepted, would be unlawful, if this had happened, if you had followed those who opposed the admission or establishment of the Commission, if the State Assembly had actually followed your illegal proposal. Speaking of the work itself, I must say that the vast majority of the decisions of this investigative commission have been taken unanimously, by a very large majority, only I think that two or three decisions have been taken by vote. Thus, those who object to what the Commission has done have agreed, or a representative of those who have agreed with the vast majority of the decisions and with the vast majority of the work of the Commission, even though it now opposes everything. Also, the specific names that you say are not in the report - not true - are many specific names written within the individual sets that are processed only by the report. However, the findings include the name that is objectively responsible for the situation. The report relates to the period 2000-2004, not to the period during the 1990s, although many of you who oppose this report spoke of the period of the 1990s when the prosecution was led by another general prosecutor. In particular, for this period, the Commission could not, but was not competent to process this period separately, but, as a demonstration and for understanding the situation in the period 2000-2004, it also addressed the past in the sense of determining what the role and status of prosecutors was before and after Slovenia's independence. And later, since independence, it has also been applied for the period 1990-2000. And this transition time has been going on all the time and it's still going on today. But what is essential, given that the Commission has considered the period 2000-2004, is that there has not been any significant progress in these four years towards faster and more successful and efficient transformation of the prosecution. I'm sorry. Nor is it true that only witnesses or the majority of witnesses who in one way or another expressed dissatisfaction with the prosecution were invited to the committee and were personally involved in these proceedings. That's not true. On the contrary, the vast majority of the witnesses were of the prosecutions themselves, were prosecutors, and were a minority of those who were otherwise dealt with in prosecution proceedings, which you say should not have been objective. There were very few such witnesses, so you do not know things here or deliberately deceive the public. Why didn't Popović-Erjavec come face-to-face, which was obvious? Simply because they both made it very clear what their opinion was. And this view of each other was contradictory, different. And the Commission has concluded that there is no point in performing a circus when both of them have already made it very clear and publicly what they think. And the Commission has never been subjected to sensationalism and to play some games that would be media-interesting, but tended to actually deal with it and so on. That's why there was no need for that. For one like another has spoken very clearly and publicly, and the thing concerning it has been clarified by both sides. The Commission did not assume, as it was said, that you had made difficult work for yourself. This work was really difficult, but it was not the commission itself, but the work was set up by the National Assembly on the basis of legal provisions, after the State Council had asked it to be done; and nothing else. No one's pawned anything else. It is not true that the Commission has not found anything about the actual state of affairs, has found much about the actual state of affairs, and many of this is also recorded in the report itself. According to individual sections, if you read it, you will be able to identify this actual situation. It is true, however, that the Commission did not deal with specific cases, specific procedures which were dealt with before the prosecution, particularly if the proceedings were still under way. It did not interfere with the specific decisions of the prosecutors during the duration of these proceedings. Neither does what was obvious. Nor does it argue that the Commission should appoint an investigator to do so by law. That's not true. The law allows and allows this possibility for the Commission to decide, if it so determines, and then to designate the injured person who invites him on the basis of the legal provisions, and then to conduct proceedings against him. The Commission has appointed witnesses and has called these witnesses for a hearing and has re-examined them in accordance with legal standards. And once again it was clear that the commission usurped its rights as the court did - that's not true. The investigative commission is not a court of law. I have already stated in the introduction what the status of the commission of inquiry is, what its tasks are, but the investigation procedure, as regards the questioning of witnesses and so on, is the same as before the courts on the basis of law. And this is written in the law itself. And in this part of the proceedings, of course, we can refer to the procedure that is being conducted by the court in relation to investigative actions, in particular the hearings of witnesses. Of course, the easiest thing to talk about is political pamphlets, farcees, and so on, but that's speaking in mind. I said earlier that I wish that for one thing that is written in this report, I would say, but this is fictional, and this is not based on data, this is not based on facts, this is not based on evidence, this is not based on official records. You won't find anything like that! And I therefore reject any position or claim that the talk about political pamphlets, about farcees, because I think that much of what is written in a separate opinion or much of what is said by opponents in today's debate is much more similar to a pamphlet or a farsi than just a report. Clearly, the discussion is political. We are representatives of political parties, and we are also discussing this, but in the Commission we have avoided politicisation. That is why I said earlier that the report is based on real and objective data. We didn't walk like this, I'd say, overplays like we can go here a lot in the National Assembly or like some of the other investigative committees. I mentioned a case like this before. The Commission is supposed to move on the brink of legality. As long as it doesn't cross this edge, there's still nothing wrong. If there is such a finding, I can't even deny how to reject it, although I think the Commission has certainly moved within the rule of law, that it has acted legally. If she ever got close to the edge, but there's still nothing wrong, the point is she didn't cross that edge. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. At the outset, I must say that I expected such a response from the candidates of this report today to the National Assembly, because, finally, I am lonely on this committee, as I have already said, from the opposition. And I just expect you to come up with a proposal now to set up an investigative committee for the writer of this separate opinion, but I hope you will not do so. However, I would like to vigorously reject insinuations and insinuations as well as insurrections. I will point out once again: in this separate opinion, I have written those things that I do not agree with as a member of this commission of inquiry, but I have been to all meetings except one. And for the sake of truthfulness, the draft report, without saying anything in two and a half years earlier, was made on 5 January this year and the structure and content of the report is exactly the same as it was, except for my observations on supervision and so on, which were given at the beginning - the same as on 5 January! And the Commission President's response on January 5th was, "This was done by the professional service, this has not yet been dealt with by the commission..." and so on. Try to postpone writing - this is a statement you have in the media from the President of the Commission on 5 January that this was done by the professional service, not this commission, which is a little too much. And from January 5th to April 30th, nothing really changed. Except that an absolute non-truth has gone out, which was said in political connection with the former state prosecutor, Mrs Cerarjevo, that her husband was a member of the Velana Supervisory Council, as the chronic witness said in this section on ownership or as you say, the theft of state property. So, the total untruth she's uttered, and now she's a chronic witness in this chapter. And then there's the other one. Speaking of Mr Popovic, the lawyer spoke for two hours at the hearing about the proceedings that took place before the court or were in proceedings. And all of you, with the President in charge, have asked him about these matters that Mr Popovic's lawyer was talking about. So he was talking about living things, not just the Supreme Court decision. So once again, for the sake of truthfulness, I do not allow this humility to be evident to me as a writer of this separate opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Excuse me, on my list, where it was previously announced, what are the changes I apologize for! [[...]] You will have your word soon, Mr Jerovšek. Instead of Mr Mitje Ljubeljska, he has the word Srečko Hvauc. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u44	Thank you so much for solving this little misunderstanding, and thank you for your word. Well, the report, which we are considering, refers to the Ironborn case as an example of a multitude of unsolved writings. It follows from the hearings at the commission, and also from the other data selected, that there was not only one Railwayman at the District Attorney's Office in Ljubljana, but even more of these Railways, as far as unresolved writings are concerned. This suggests that then the Attorney General, Mrs Cerarjeva, did not know how to organise work on this prosecution, that the prosecution was poorly led, that some of the personnel left was not properly replaced, that there was poor supervision or that even some of the files were deliberately placed in closets, in order to remain hidden or that, as it turned out later, some were also obsolete. The result of this situation was that more than 1,000 unsolved writings had been collected during this period and that the remaining prosecutions had been put under pressure in order to reduce the number of these unsolved files at any cost or in any way to balance or improve the average at the national level. All the prosecutors did not agree with this, did not endorse such pressures and did not approve interference with their work, nor did they approve immediately after or shortly after Mrs Cerarov's term of office was practically imposed or under the command of a completed visit to Brdo, where the prosecutors came in a humble manner to bow to Mr Kučan, the then President of the State. The President is not anyone, but he is the same as a citizen before the laws and the question would be how these prosecutors or one of them would feel if the next day he was treated as an offender or an alleged offender of a crime. One such prosecutor, who also had a lot of concerns about this way of working, was also the head of the prosecution in Ptuj, already mentioned today, Mr Glavar. In addition to desiring the independence and independence of himself and the prosecution, he criticized the work of the police, who had poorly prepared complaints, deficient complaints, without any sketches, photographs or other evidence, which devoted little attention to economic crime, drug persecution and similar things. In view of the general situation in the prosecutions, it was obvious that it was necessary to show who was the boss, who had things under control, that the prosecution was able to detect corruption and crime even in its own kind. And apparently, as a suitable candidate for this, Mr Glavar, mentioned earlier, was suspected of taking bribes from the already mentioned Mr Lončarič, on 23.1.2001, to demand a bribe of 30,000 Marks, which is spectacularly detained. On this basis, of course, the detention was followed by suspension and removal of the post of Head of the Prosecutor's Office. Of course, no one was concerned that the detention was carried out without prior hearing, that the Supreme Court’s consent was given in advance, Bianca, if you do find out, then we give you our consent. And as a point on and in the whole matter, half an hour after the arrest, a press conference followed, at which Mrs Cerarjev, of course, bombastically announced a successful action, and Mr Glavar, has already marked him as the perpetrator of the crime. And this was done by the Attorney General, a lawyer, an expert in the field of law, the one who should probably have the most respect for the law. In this case, let me tell you what the epilogue of the extremely controversial and in many cases or many elements of the illegal procedure has been. Two years after the detention and withdrawal of office, the Supreme Court overturned the decision, and five years after the detention, there was a withdrawal from prosecution because there was no practical, reasonable suspicion that the proceedings could be continued at all. And all of this happened under the leadership of the then state prosecutor, the Attorney General of State, Mrs Cerar, who was apparently also rewarded for her work with a political function, became minister, and in the final stage when the masks fell, she also became Vice-President of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Colleagues and colleagues. Let me first say that, of course, I will support this report, because I must say that this investigative commission has opened an important area for the abuse of public functions. In fact, insight into this report can tell us a lot about today's current capital concentration issues and so on. However, I am also pleased with this report that this third report and the third investigative commission, according to my data, is likely to complete the work with the adoption of the report and that all these reports have been written by Members from the Slovenian Democratic Party. Comrade Zamernik, two previous, on the Zavreč case, on the violation of those informants on the Croatian side, and then on the Friday case, and today also Dmitri Kovacic. Of course, I must also say that there would be more cases closed, as my colleague Pukšič pointed out in the Elan case, where in the then LDS most prevented the report from being considered, it was the same as the report submitted on the Vič-Holmec case, where I led the investigative commission at the time, but they also voted not to deal with it. Of course, this prevented the Slovenian public from getting acquainted with certain activities on the crime police and dealing with economic crime at the time. And if allowed then, it would probably not have been the conduct of the prosecutions in the period 2000-2004, as shown here, when cases were politically dealt with and the prosecution of economic crime or damage to social property were politically impeded. And, see, things like here, damage to social property, Ranc, Friday, Railway, if I mention only a few, specifically show where the essence has been built, mycelium for what is happening today with these acquisitions through "mail collectors". Here we have a whole bunch of cases, when consciously acted, consciously rejected complaints, because there were some people who were protected politically and are still, in fact, through power centers. Look, the Ranc case was practically part of the Vice-Holmec investigation committee's case. If the D.A. had not kept the file for eight months at that time, Ranc would probably have reached his right in court at that time and the state prosecutor would not have been able to dismiss the case. And he had to personally take over the prosecution and was proved through the Supreme Court. And it was motivated by the prosecutors to do what they did. And it's Friday. I'm just gonna touch this. My friend Friday wrote about the work of the then Korean tycoons, and they weren't called tycoons, but they were tycoons. And everything was made to be burdened, stalled, not passed on to the real prosecution, which would not have been influenced by the actors of the attack on Friday. The Attorney General knew why she did so, Mrs Cerareva, was already a subconscious member of the LDS, even though she was the Attorney General. And she couldn't hide it, it was seen at every turn. And she certified this membership only later for the public. And if it weren't for the fact that everything was done in my opinion, so as not to get a judicial epilogue, so as not to get to the contracting authority - we know about who the perpetrators are. There was a lot of it, a lot of it happened, but there were always subscribers and their pimps. And the boors of those subscribers are the same as those of today's "buyers" are the same. Look, if I go first, here's Adria Mobil, then the fund. There have been many such cases before, and I tell you that the best bidder has not been sold. Here we see that the bidder was three times the price, but he received the Autocommerce and the famous gentleman and, of course, the prosecution found nothing burdensome. The arrest of District Attorney Glavar on Ptuj was mentioned earlier in this regard. And I have to say that it was that, I'm sure, very politically motivated, because then, in 2001, they started a criminal procedure against me, and I'll tell you how. One month before my possible statute of limitations, as was the case with me, in 1992 I was responsible for Silke in Kidrichev. But before that, I developed a procedure and introduced a product for washing powders, which was perfectly produced and is still being produced today, and in loading that product, one worker crashed and died a few days after the accident. However, in the investigation of this case, I have never been asked anything. Later, those who were directly responsible for safety at work told me that the prosecutor had resigned from prosecution because that particular worker was himself guilty of violating it. But in 2000, five months before the elections, I was in charge. And they've run predictive procedures, and they've been chasing me through a bird court a few times, and the newspapers have been happy to write about the fact that there was a member of the opposition at the time. But this octopus works today. Today before the elections, there's more mud and this octopus is working. And look, as here is - the effectiveness of the prosecution of economic and other organised crime has been lagging behind its actual "recurring forms" of elections, from which we can conclude that the group of prosecutors responsible for the prosecution of organised crime has not been trained enough or has been committed to other prosecutions, such as [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And that's exactly what happened. [[...]] It was not the political will to be able at all: not the criminal police, the economic department, not the prosecution. Such were the political instructions of the then LDS authorities, which today spread into three parties, and these three parties are protectors of all acts arising through "buyers", through concentration. And like I said, if Ranc and Friday were to be treated differently, there would be no pressure of capital on the press today. The Rance thing is symptomatic. At that time, it was tolerated that human rights of journalists had been violated. What's going on with the press today, the pressure they're under? I don't know, very bad things are over, and in fact, journalists are victims, and they have to keep quiet. Some of the protestors of the press society. In different cases, less severe and less problematic, however, they were horribly shouted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Geza Juban has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Commission is expected to take the initiative of the State Council on a case where the Councilman felt that he was being wronged. And from here on out, there's no trace of this saint and this injustice. Today we are witnessing some stories that have nothing to do with it anymore. All the time I have a feeling, and similarly I have had the last time that the SDS's re-accounting with SD - but the polls show you well again - and I'm afraid or even in the meantime I'm afraid that our member and Vice-President Zdenko Cerar have moved in with you and that they're counting with you. No, we don't give Zdenke, he's ours, and I'm not comparing her to any former or current Attorney General who's taking his way again. The story before us is very strange. We listen, say, we adopted the LDS programme a month ago, here we have heard that the Commission has even been dealing with this in the last three years. It means that two or three years ago, it knew what the new LDS would be like, what the programme would be like and what it would need to be, what it would be, what it would be, what it would be like to prevent it from being created or formed, and to include at least orally in the report here for a payphone - writers of the LDS programme. Something very unusual! And the document I have before me, and the report, the conclusions. The President made it very clear, the Popovic case, the statements were contradictory, we could not believe neither one but it was written as one said, Mr Popovic. I do not define myself around Mr Popovic, but it would be very good to have someone in this country, either with the authority or authority to say, but this matter in Cyprus is no longer normal for the rule of law. And it has to go one way. The joke is that it's been running for years and it's not going anywhere, and many others. Now we have another power, says with other inclinations, but nothing happens again. But we put here in a report that what's not at all credible, that's credible, and that a witness who wasn't a good witness is suddenly a witness who holds everything she said. I'm among those 90% Slovenes who are no longer interested in this hunt for some communists or whatever they were. But we're still hunting some former members of the party today, although I hear the most heated here is being debated as, I don't know, as if they've never been. Even the Prime Minister of the Government is in the middle of what we hear when former members very much disturb him, his ex-colleagues. I've never been, but if I were, I'd say it out loud. And I have the utmost respect for those who hope to say it out loud. And these stories don't interest me or the citizens anymore. Recently there was a congress of prosecutors in Portorož, who made it clear that there was really no good in the prosecution, including at the top of the prosecution and the special prosecutor's group. How all is well today! 33% of citizens say that the most corruption is under the current government, visas to all other governments accused of 21%, all other governments 21, the current 35%. The prosecutor's concern in Portorož is likely to be in place. In fact, it's a frame-up. You're saying that at the time Zdenko was abandoned by all the good, bad, and I don't know what they were, some of them had to leave. What's the situation today? This special prosecution group is almost gone. And what came, as they said in Portorož, is the frame of Mrs. Brezigar's. And based on what's here, aren't we having an affair every month or every week? Finnish criminals have flooded Slovenia, and we don't even know where they are or who they are anymore. The Attorney General's Office - he's not giving a shit, it's numbed him, because of that and a lot of other stories. We're going to have the next point, which is scary, financially maybe not the most, because they're each other more. Today we have again in the newspaper Intereuropo, what's going on there. And we're dealing with what Kucan once said, and when, I don't know, Zdenka spoke to whom. And we're talking about the period after the conquest, but we're not saying at all that you had people in the DA's office for 13 years. And this four years was Zdenka, who probably did a lot of things wrong. I wasn't among those looking for anything, nor did I ever imagine it was possible. But here's the thing - even those who listen to us, there will almost be no one in the hall who would be interested in it, which is normal and logical, because in the meantime the matter has become tragic, but the matter is being misled. Somebody said you were acting like you were gonna grab your own little ass. And that's the way it is. Let's see what's going on today, let's do it! Defense Department, Clinical Center - stories where nothing moves. There are miracle boys, in Maribor, in Ljubljana. I'm going to say again, we're going to have a case later that's much worse than all these stories, and we should be dealing with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, the debate on the Commission's report certainly reminds me very much at some points of the usual behaviour patterns of the largest government party, because a lot of what can be heard has become quite a sample. Let me tell you what things I mean. The Commission of Inquiry, which was created on the initiative or request of the Council of State, was created in the same way as the Rules of Procedure stated that the requirement of the Council of State must be respected. From here on out, things could run in a completely different way than they did. The 7-member commission, in which the main party, the government party, three members, Nova Slovenija one, the Slovenian People's Party also has one and is opposition to these six coalitions and one which is not known how it is, but more coalition than opposition, only one opposition party, is called upon to understand this position differently from the political assessment of the ruling coalition on many things, which is recorded in this report and more about what has not been investigated at all. The Commission of Inquiry, which is to investigate the political responsibility of officials, has taken the right to discuss history. What is this, like, a historical commission or something? Will history policy now be debated? Whenever there is a history talk, it is usually said that historians and politicians should discuss history. In what direction will the assessment of history go in such a case when the matter is led by the SDS, it is clear in itself and I think that my fellow Member, who discussed the matter on behalf of the Group of Members, said exactly and precisely the name. This is a typical example of a lustration report and an attempt at lustration of some people. I see a similarity with all that is happening on the Commission, which I am its President. This is the Commission for Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. The same picture: three members of the SDS, one from New Slovenia - well, of course, only the LDS once had two, and now the unrelated Member and really one and Social Democrats of one. But it's interesting. It has never seemed necessary for members of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to consider in more detail any petition in which individuals addressed the petition commission for dissatisfaction with the work of the prosecution or the courts or lawyers. In particular, I stress that this does not mean that I myself agree that the Commission to which I chair should exceed its powers and interfere with the decisions of the courts and intervene and amend the views adopted. All I'm saying is that ordinary citizens who turn to the Commission could not hope that anyone would be called to any political responsibility in any way because of all that was written in petitions. There was no special treatment, as was said, nor did anyone ask anything. However, if any story had to be related to other developments, then the largest coalition party has always found the opportunity to request an emergency meeting and, for example, as an interesting matter, requires an emergency meeting to be convened in order to inform the Commission of the decision, by a decision of the Supreme Court. It had to be an emergency session. The Commission should be informed of the decision of the Supreme Court and of the request for a meeting of the Supreme Court decision as material, but only five media contributions. If you ask yourself, why such procedures, I had to specifically request a decision - why such procedures? Because then some things can be interpreted on the committee. I will not now talk about the unconscious, because the colleague who spoke about this is no longer in the Chamber, but apparently some of the names are constantly involved in such contexts as do not have a basis in truth or in witnessing. And whoever goes to look at the minutes, the magnetogram of the second follow-up to the 11th urgent session of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities, which was held on 20 December last year, will find a school example of how the truth can be manipulated. How can it be that when the accuser and the accused, when the two are faced and the accused say that what the accuser is saying is not true, the accuser continues to persist and is again able to listen to these things today. And of course, nothing bothers Mr President, not everyone else, that the journalist Ranc, then the journalist, now of course the editor, has written down that the session of the commission will not be attended because he estimates that such a clear and unequivocal judgment of the Supreme Court, as it is in my case, is not being debated, which is only interpreted in different ways. The truth is one thing. The state oversaw me unjustly and illegally, as the Supreme Court ruled. Parliamenting and different interpretations could also be understood as interference by the legislative authority with judicial decisions. I hope that the judgment will contribute to raising democratic standards in Slovenia. Nothing helps to make the judgment clear. Nothing helps Ranc distance himself from interpretations. The interpretations have been happening and are continuing. And that's what it would be good to say that ten times a lie is true. And in this report, of course, I cannot shake off the reasonable doubt about the particulars in the textual part of the report. And when I listen to the debaters, I remember a lot about how something was said and how it wasn't. However, it was very interesting to see whether the Commission President's reply was very interesting, why he did not hear what the Commission had decided or decided to say, but he said that it was not necessary, because it was perfectly clear how Minister Erjavac and Mayor Popovic felt. But it was different opinions, and it seemed to the commission that there was no need to hear these witnesses! Some of the findings have been made very much on the torn legs. They ignore what the Commission of Inquiry should actually do and turn to the political assessment of some historical facts. And that's closer to that, isn't it, as it's said, given how the commission is made up, who wrote the opinion that it's closer to the saying of the saying, every picker is bragging about his little one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Moge, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u52	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will try to talk myself about this report and why I cannot support such a report. If we look at the above-mentioned Friday case here, the report says: "The case was dealt with by the District Attorney's Office in Slovenj Gradc. Attorney General Zdenka Cerar insisted on the local jurisdiction of this prosecution, although it was obvious that the pressure of local factors would make it better if the case were allocated to another local prosecutor or to a group of prosecutors for special purposes." I think that this matter is completely without a basis, because several times it has been said, and this report does not mean that under the State Prosecutor's Act, the Attorney-General could not assign the matter to another State Prosecutor's Office, and is simply silent about it. The case could not be assigned to another prosecutor until all state prosecutors at the District Attorney's Office in Slovenj Gradc were eliminated for pressure from local factors. There was a possibility of re-classification, but not at the level of the Attorney General, but at the level of the Head of the State Prosecutor's Office in Maribor. This matter, as it is written, does not hold and is maliciously displayed. I could also say that, in the case of Friday, the current option had all the levers of power in its hands and the case was closed by a judgment of acquittal, as also colleague Friday, with whom I feel for the events that happened to him, has also repeatedly said that he is disappointed at what is going on. But he never said that only because of the time before they were not in power, but also later. In these observations, I would like to say the following. In general terms, if you looked at what more people were saying before me, you'd have the following. Explanation, this is what this assessment of the role of the prosecution has been since 1945. It is, in my humble opinion, stupidity, which has not been included in this report at all. Prosecutor General Drobnič reportedly had time to reshape the prosecutors in his image from 1991 to 1999. It is unrealistic to claim in paragraph that economic crime has become the most affluent in the transition period of the LDS regime. I don't think that's true. He became most prosperous during the reign of Demos between 1990 and 1993. During this period, the previous informal owner of the company was no longer this country and the new owners have not yet taken ownership. It applied legislation adopted in previous times, which were different, and only the Company Act, which applied 10. Seven. In 1993, it allowed for the creation of normal economic legal entities. Of course, the offences were committed during this period, as a rule discovered in the following years, when the audits started under the Property Transformation Act. I will not mention the problems the LDS or the government has had, which was to establish this area after we seceded from Yugoslavia. And certainly there have been problems, surely by certain entities, they have been used to try to get rid of these things somehow. During the rule of the LDS, the procedures were intensive. In the time of Demos, however, three years passed before the new law cut off many unethical and immoral acts of economic facilities. And now we're going to these findings. First conclusion: the work of Slovenian prosecutors during the period 2002-2004 was not satisfactory. This is shown mainly in the case of large backlogs where ODT Ljubljana is leading. This claim, ladies and gentlemen, is not correct. All the national prosecutors of Slovenia had backlogs at the time of taking over the leadership of the Attorney General's Office, colleague Cerarjev. The first measure was a plan to remedy the backlog and, already three months later, the situation was substantially rectified. However, it was not quickly possible to remove the backlogs of the Ljubljana Prosecutor's Office, which is the biggest prosecutor in Slovenia, with the most difficult cases. This situation was inherited from Mr. Petty Officer. With extraordinary efforts and unpaid work and weekends and holidays, the state's prosecutors on this prosecution have eliminated the backlogs and gradually phased them out. During her leadership, the work of the prosecution became up-to-date, as is evident from the annual reports to the National Assembly. Each case had to be resolved within three months. Exceptions were the hardest things where the deadline could be extended. That's why it's twisted from the vine. To the second paragraph. The logs that came in weren't accurate. Of course, if the incoming mail does not appear in the computer, it is not, so it cannot be traced. This is possible on purpose or by mistake. For example, we had an intentional case in Ptuj, and we had negligence in the case of Mr Miran Iron. He was acquitted by the Court of Justice. Four o'clock. The prosecutions were humanely fed. Is that why the Attorney General was guilty? We have been guilty, ladies and gentlemen, of all the Members who were then sitting in the National Assembly and providing budgetary resources and trying to balance this balance over that difficult period, not the State Prosecutor, because this matter was not resolved. Paragraph 5 or paragraph 7. In most cases, the theft of state or social takeover remained unsanctioned due to ineffective prosecutions. This claim does not correspond to the truth. There is no evidence that the prosecution would be subject to the influence of the ruling policy or the influential economic lobby. So was the prosecution subject to these influences at the time of the Tiny? In his day, crimes were detected and prosecuted as a place of state or social property in his day. Does Demos therefore influence Petty Officer and Prosecutors during the reign of Mrs Cerarov? There was no such influence and there is no evidence of such a claim. Article eight. The effectiveness of the prosecution of economic and other organised crime has been halted by its actual phenomenal forms, from which we can conclude that it has not been sufficiently qualified or has been assigned to other prosecutions. I could talk about it long and wide, but since I don't have time, I'm gonna skip it. Then you have a direct policy impact on the prosecution. That's the ninth thing. This was undoubtedly demonstrated by the former President of the State, who, by calling on the law enforcement authority, took a public interest in the Popovic case. The President of the State had no influence on the prosecution, not in general or in a particular case, nor in the Popovic case. This case was brought before the competent administrative prosecutor in Cyprus and brought before the court. Ten. The former president of the country also introduced the term "political underground" into Slovenia, which should be sanctioned by the perpetrators. To find such nonsense in the report of a parliamentary commission is a scandal, but we do not have censorship and anyone can express himself in parables when he thinks it fits a certain fact. The texts are truly relics of the past non-democratic period, which goes back a long way, there before independence. Then you're eleven. It notes that Mrs Zdenka has not done enough, says: "It is not possible to detect effective measures during her period, from which I can conclude that her advancement means the purpose of the Government, the coalition to continue with its current education policy." I'd like to speak for her defense. During this period, the State Prosecutor's Office has eliminated all backlogs and set a reasonable time frame for resolution - I have already said this - for three months. The supervision of the work of state prosecutors has never before been so consistent and extensive. The reports, which are also attached here, show that all the audits provided for by the law have been carried out. And a lot more. A review of the cases, the cases in the calendar, was carried out on each progress in the legal review of the work of the individual prosecutor. According to the reports submitted by the Ministry, the reports and findings of these reviews referred to a high professional contribution to improving the prosecution's work, improving the quality of work and complementary initiatives. The state's attorneys have overburdened the courts with their mediation work, which has now been discovered by the courts as a kind of novelty. Since 1999, the state prosecutors' solutions to prosecution and settlement have increased by 100% and 200%. I could also tell you that, for example, only in the case of delayed pursuits, 33 million were gathered for humanitarian purposes, and we had SITs that were provided to the needy, 26 million in 2001. Thus, a large number of cases under the jurisdiction of district courts were resolved by state prosecutors. Ladies and gentlemen! I could still talk, there's a lot more like it. I, in the Slovenian nation and in this Parliament, gentlemen and gentlemen, cannot understand what is in us, that we can only speak ill and evil and maliciously about each other. I really don't get it. And we create facts. What's that in us? Is it true that Mr. Milan Kučan, the president who led the conquest, is here accused of a very serious man who has no idea how he affected all these negative phenomena in our country? Could one Zdenka Cerar, as a woman who worked hard, have done a great deal in the prosecution, with her name and surname written here maliciously and with false claims burned as the most negative person in this period, even though she was in the government that took Slovenia to the European Union. Yes, what do we do, ladies and gentlemen? What's that in us? Is it just us being mean? Can we just say back to each other as a politician whatever we want behind this box? Yeah, I just don't get it. The men themselves sat on this committee and did not have, excuse me, so much fashion that if they had written so negatively about it, Mrs Cerarevo would have been identified as an investigator in order to be able to defend herself. He may be watching us now, he can't say anything about it, but here we are with the vats pouring manure on her on the basis of this report! I thank you, Mr President, for the report. I hope that this report will be a school example of how investigative commissions are not working and at the same time I am giving you an under-assessment.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u54	Thank you, Vice President. I join my colleague Mojet's assessment, although I am not a professor, but as a politician I also consider this insufficient work done. If you'll excuse me, I'll be back nineteen years ago in my basic profession when I reported sometimes from certain meetings as a journalist. And I'd say, ladies and gentlemen, we're reporting from the last session of the National Assembly in this call, and there's going to be an election soon. We are considering in this National Assembly the report of the investigative commission led by Mr Kovacič, which reviewed and assessed the work of the prosecution in the past periods. The report by which the coalition seeks to prove to the public and also to opponents that, in the current reference, the prosecution is doing its work properly, professionally, sovereignly, independently, that even during the period preceding the Commission’s consideration, from 1992 to 2000, under Mr Petnik, that prosecutor’s office was working relatively flawlessly, except in the cases of prosecutors who were, of course, the remainder of the previous regime. However, at a time when the prosecution was headed by the late Minister of Justice, Mrs Cerarjev, the prosecution worked disastrously, corruptly, criminally and so on. Well, the opposition, of course, opposes this assessment. We are witnesses to a new pre-election farce that the coalition has certainly wished for. When we set up this commission, I objected because it seemed to me at the time that we were going this way when we tried to influence the work of the prosecution. Not to make it work better and more professional, but to make it work by means of authority. And today we are witnessing this message. I've had a message myself in my space, and I'm not going to talk about names, and I don't want to expose them because they don't have the right to defend themselves. Here we have heard countless opinions and surnames that have been charged by the coalition that are not here, and have never been given an opportunity to object. But there is a specific case that also shows how the coalition tries to pressure the prosecution. For example, during the process, when the Government informs the prosecutor who has this case in his hands that the defendant should not be sued, it appoints him president of the Supervisory Board of a very important para-State society. And after this appointment, the highest level of confidence in this gentleman has been demonstrated, and the process is over. The D.A., those who watched it on TV, looked down and didn't know what he was going to do. I heard he complained, but that's another thing. Such examples are likely to be detected and demonstrated in the environment. I already said no when I appointed this commission of inquiry. I do not think it would be appropriate for our National Assembly to assess the work of prosecutors in past mandates, with only one specific period, but only one specific political option, under which the influence of this coalition and this policy has been increased. Last but not least, we know the case of an investigation where the opposition objecting to this investigation could propose the appointment of another investigative commission to deal with the work of prosecutors, say during the time of Mr Drobnik, that is, between 1992 and 2000. But the opposition didn't do it because it wasn't decent. And today, we can tell our viewers and viewers that if they're already watching TV, if they haven't switched to another better channel, where there's a better program, they can be living witnesses to a new political and pre-election circus that you're reporting that, as I said before, the Earth is flat. This will be your vote, and your decision will be recorded in the analies, so that it will be holy truth. That the Earth is a flat planet, of course, but the electorate and the electorate will decide in September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u56	However, I would first point out to the President once again that there is something that needs to be done. Here in the hall is a very strong smell of lacquer, and you all know that varnish is not a safe substance. I'm not afraid for life, but I think we should ask technical services what's going on, and either empty the hall and thoroughly ventilate it or do anything else. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u57	Mrs. Pechanova, I agree. We've also found here a little while ago, and I think your words and mine have been heard by the authorities.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u58	I'd just like to say a few things that I picked up from the report. I am particularly disturbed by one thing in this report. In view of the fact that amnesia prevailed on the Commission from 1990 to 1998 or until 2000 and that this Commission only controlled the period 1945-1990 and the period 2000-2004. What happened in the decade from 1990 to 2000. Nothing. We had the Attorney-General, who had the current Attorney-General, who led the company or company, depending on the number, I don't know about the number of state prosecutors at different levels, who were all heirs to the previous terrible, politicized, only politically directed against the civil and human rights of targeted personnel from 1945-1990. What happened to these people? By 1990 they had been totally politicized, and after 2000, they were once again totally politicized, and in the meantime they were themselves angels with birds flying around Mr Drobnič, who is anyway, we know, very closely connected to being above us. However, in this same report, it is noted that 439 criminal complaints were lodged during this amnesian period, of which 214 were essentially abandoned, if I can at home say that I do not list all the acts which did not take place in relation to these complaints. And then this same commission notes that in the criminal code we do not have the qualification of individual economic crime offences due to poor, inaccurate and particularly outdated legislation, which is, in difficult and specific cases, unusable. This is precisely what the Commission notes for a period for which, in its work, it avoided itself as the devil of the cross because it was then led by the State Prosecutor's Office by a person who, like the current head of the State Prosecutor's Office, was raised over every question about bias and political dependence. And this same commission notes today that the criminal code does not contain appropriate definitions of crimes in the field of master crime, although a bad month ago it voted radically not to say, revolutionaryly amended the criminal code. After eight years, between 1990 and 1998, the administration of the state's prosecution by the then fully independent general prosecutor's policy, after almost four years, which is the party to which the majority of the members of this commission are in office and which has a reliable majority both in the National Assembly and in the leadership of the State Prosecutor's Office, the same party repeats the mantra about the political functioning of the state prosecutors. And interestingly, the political prosecution only worked during the period 2000-2004. All prosecutors, subordinated to Attorney General Anton Drobnič, have become subject to the newly elected government in a miracle in 2000. Before that, they worked on the basis of a criminal code, which, according to the Attorney General's total silence during that period, was good enough because in his period, as many as half of the criminal charges were dropped. I don't think I'm gonna waste any more time. The fact is that this report actually deserves an evaluation of the flowers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor. You have one minute at your disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u60	Thank you very much. All the nice greetings, especially to colleagues and colleagues from the opposition. Let's at least listen if we don't read. The report shall be prepared for a certain period and shall accordingly be prepared. Accordingly, conclusions are drawn up. I don't think it's a problem whether the prosecutors are ours or yours, as someone from the LDS said today, but the problem is that they are in the interests of the state and should act in the interests of the state. This is a problem that drags through this period and before which they are not immune even today. Prosecutors are independent and independent in their work, they are part of a repressive apparatus. An important pillar of the rule of law and democracy if they work effectively. Unfortunately, in all this period since 1990 they have not yet managed to shake off such or other political affiliations. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And I hope that at least in the National Assembly, as far as we have these options, in the next reference, we will make a common clear commitment to make this sphere more operational. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Just sit down with your colleagues and coalitions. Since 1990, 12 years you have been in the hands of the prosecution, led from your political options, and 14 years from your political options have been run by the judicial district. So let some things be cleared up with you. But there are some other explanations, because I will no longer have a chance. I repeat to the President of the Commission, who said in February this year when I wrote a separate opinion: "Many of Kumera's comments are worth considering. However, I cannot agree with his view that the proposal is a political pamphlet." He himself has a lot of reservations about the proposal for an interim report prepared by the expert services of the Commission but will abstain from political evaluations. And today, we have this text almost exactly the same as it was in February, and we have it in front of us today, prepared by the professional services. It's again, and it's for the sake of truth. From my comments, the ones I gave were not taken into account. And at the end of the day, my fellow Petan, who spoke of the sheep, spoke of the parables of the sheep. But I wrote here: When the sheep become wolves, they are much worse than the wolves themselves. And last but not least, I found out today after a long time who, during my college years, was giving me the backseat of state security from the student community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Do you want Mr. Kovacic, as a proposaler, to have a chance, a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Last thing said, he absolutely doesn't. The text has been considerably improved from draft to final version, and in fact much has been done, quite what Mr Kumer has also contributed as a comment at the time the draft was being considered has been incorporated into this text. This can be checked without any problems. And in the rest of the work, the text was changed, corrected. But it is true that the concept itself has not been changed. That's right. The concept of the draft itself has not been substantially changed, but the content itself has been quite altered. This can be verified directly. When speaking of the pre-election circus, I would like once again, as an example, to mention the second investigative commission led by your fellow Member, the Social Democrats, where your President, Mr Cwickl, is acting as the main role of clowns, where, in fact, on the basis of fabricated claims, the circus is staged and misleading the public and the eclectic violation of what the Commission itself has adopted, with regard to yesterday's session, when it comes to a public hearing of the proposed witness, this is not respected. But you're not critical of that. You are critical of the report, which in one point is not based on imaginary things, which is real, which is objectively based on facts based on official data and so on. It really seems incredible to me that you are so critical of what we do, but at the same time extremely sensitive to everything that is written down, even though we are talking about the objective responsibility of the Head of Public Prosecutions during the period under consideration. It's an objective responsibility, but it's a witch hunt, and it's a discredit, and I don't know what else has been said. So we're only talking about objective responsibility. What's worse! But when you are critical of yourself to the work of the Government, to the work of our coalition, to the work of our party, but in your criticisms you are ruthlessly reckless. But that doesn't bother you. You are disturbed by the fact that there is an objective responsibility here for the man who led the prosecution, who was found to have been dissatisfied with the fact that so many and so many irregularities were committed at that time, did not carry out his duties as expected. And what's worse if it's said that whoever led this prosecution is objectively responsible. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Earlier it was said that the Attorney General was not competent to refer the case to the Special Affairs Group on Friday. It just doesn't hold. She was competent under the law, but she didn't want to do it. Despite the fact that the head of the Special Affairs Group herself wanted to do so and expected to do so. And the head of the district attorney's office in Slovenj Gradz wanted this to be done, and the general public prosecutor was deaf to these wishes. On the commission of inquiry itself Jožica Bolte Brus, head of the Special Affairs Group, said: "On Friday, I was also informed by the head of the Prosecutor's Office in Slovenj Gradec. It was one of the few leaders who informed when it indicated that it was organised crime, and I know when she was last with me, she also said that now the matter... " It's very vaguely written here. "But then here the Attorney General decided that this matter would not go to the special group. And I've never been asked to take over this Friday matter." And so on and so forth. Despite the fact that she could do so in order to dispel any concerns that the matter would be dealt with under pressure, subjectively, this did not happen. As for the Popovic hearing, Erjavec. Let me once again say that it was not believed in this particular case, not in one case, not in the other. Do you know why it went? The point was that Kučan was supposed to tell Zdenka Cerar how to handle the matter in the Popovic case. Popovic said that Kučan ordered how the matter should proceed. Erjavec, who is supposed to be the one over whom the case is or is supposed to be the secretary of state at the Ministry of Justice, is supposed to be there when it happened. And he denied it. That's all there was to it. Popovich said it was true. Jerjavec denied it. And what we're supposed to do with facing more. Everything else is another matter that has also been dealt with. As far as Mr Mojet's debate is concerned, I would say that the praise of the prosecution, which Mrs Cerarje wrote through Mr Mojet, is understandable, because, after all, everyone will try to have an institution that runs it, to praise it and will not seek critical words on his own. But however, it will be difficult to convince anyone that the prosecution was successful, that it worked, that nothing was wrong. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u65	Thank you very much. In doing so, we have exhausted all those who have been reported for discussion. Before I give you my word, that's all I want to say. In view of your comments on how it is in this room with air; I also find that it is not the best. Therefore, I would recommend that you take a little walk outside. There is also a possibility that I should suggest, not now as chairman, but by my profession, that I also propose a ten-minute break under this item of the agenda, although I know that this climate will not be rectified by tomorrow morning, certainly not if we begin now. We'll insist, they'll take us both. We're moving on, Mr. Kumer. Excuse me. Mr Kumer has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u66	Mr Vice-President, I would suggest that you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, give a reminder to my colleague Kovacic because he has insulted a colleague of Brick who is not here and named him "the clown". I don't think that's appropriate, but it's not particularly relevant to today's debate that you're moralizing a lot about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Given that time has remained unused, I would suggest that those we want to say more have run out of time, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u69	Thank you very much. That is true, but it is not quite so, for in this case we do not share the time according to the rules of procedure. However, since some questions still need to be answered, I would open the debate if anyone wanted to apply. Please, the application is in progress. Six more debaters reported, each with five minutes. But please, let's discuss the conclusions. And I also ask that we discuss this in such a way that I will not have to give any reminders. I said that because at the time of this session I should have given many reminders. Thank you. Mr. Dimitriy Kovacic, you have the floor, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u70	Thank you very much. As far as reminders are concerned, it is truly amazing how sensitive some are. When so ruthlessly attacked many people who are not in the hall, from the Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, I don't know who else. But that's all right. But when someone, even if it's so mildly said, criticizes someone of your kind, you're as sensitive as babies. I was talking, Mr. Friday, about how someone is using an investigative commission for a circus, which is happening in front of everyone, in front of the public. And how those who sit in it assess the work of this commission, evaluate the report and so on, and at the same time do not see the Bruno in the eye of their own personnel. I can't help it if someone who's been questioned before this commission of inquiry has changed their statements. I can't help it if Mr Kučan once spoke like that, the second time he spoke differently, and if this is written here in the report. But one thing that's written down isn't made up. Everything that's written down, I've said several times, is written on the basis of facts, data, official data and everything we've gotten on the committee. And when someone, I think, Mr Kumer, said that something was written in the draft of this final report that he did not hold, and that what he did not hold fell out of the final report. Yes, thank God! It was found that it didn't hold and we deleted. We could probably cure this gesture that if something didn't hold up, it was removed and everything else is true. But it is true that what was written that Mr Miro Cerar, the husband of Mrs Zdenka Cerar, a member of the Velana Supervisory Council, was not true. And that was deleted because Mr Miro Cerar was a member of the Supervisory Board of the PID Krone, a Shadowmaker who was the majority owner of Velana, that is this change. But we didn't write that down then either, because it really wasn't even necessary to write that down, because it didn't even go in that context. But the fact that it's obvious that what it doesn't hold was deleted from the text, which I don't understand. Instead of commending how from the draft to the final proposal what it does not hold has been removed from the content itself. Once again, I will say that all those who speak of the period 1990-2000 forget that the Commission of Inquiry was not responsible for the specific and detailed examination of this period. During the period 1990-2000 she was not competent, but from 2000-2004. The part that talks about history does not investigate history, but only identifies the situation before Slovenia's independence. During this period, prosecutors had special status; they were sociopolitical workers who protected the social political system of the day. However, the role of the prosecutor in democracy is completely different and the speech is about this transformation, about the function that they performed earlier to the function they have to perform in a democratic society. However, the specific treatment referred to the period 2000-2004. If any other period were to be considered, this would result in an excess of its powers. And when it comes to history, it's about understanding the situation and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Moge, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u72	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If we look at the costs, the taxpayers' money invested in this committee and what the Commission is proposing to the National Assembly to accept, this time it seems to me that the taxpayers' money has been used irrationally. What does the commission propose in the end? To professionally strengthen the prosecution mainly with personnel who have been specially trained to detect and prosecute contemporary forms of economic crime and corruption. We have already received several reports from the Commission on Security Intelligence in the National Assembly. Such a conclusion has been in there several times, and it means that we have not used it, and it is only this commission that has reached it, that this government does not do what we accept here in this National Assembly. Therefore, it would not be necessary to set up a commission. Second, adopt appropriate amendments to the Penal Code and, for the third time, adopt appropriate amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. What are these appropriate changes? Isn't the ruling coalition in the hands of all the vaults to change these things and put these things in order? Why do they have to tell us now that it was her job to change legislation now? When it comes to amending legislation and there is no indication in these conclusions that someone has done wrong, it means that only our legislation is bad. Yeah, well, what did you do for four years if it was just the law? Further, change penal policy. That's why it takes a commission to change the penal policy. To prevent political pressure and all political influences on prosecutors and judges, the National Assembly will now accept this. How? Please take a look in Slovenia today and you will see what is going on. Re-emphasize and consider the appropriateness of the current regulation of the Legal Institute for the Permanent Mandate of Prosecutors and Judges. Yes, how many times did Comrade Jelinčič talk about this in this National Assembly? I have it recorded at least ten times, if not fifteen times or even more. And all his colleagues. But here what the commission now found was a bob against the wall for the ruling coalition. She didn't do anything. We came up with a lot of taxpayer money. She didn't do anything. Equalize the immunity of prosecutors. We know, first, the change in the constitution, and then it goes with this, because we don't have to explain it to the Members. Equalize the immunity of prosecutors and judges with the immunity of a Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Can we do that? Was this immunity the main thing here in this investigation? Ensure that the public is informed objectively and transparently of the prosecution's work. That's why we're here to deal with these reports and also to deal with them, my fellows, is that why I'm wrong? Whether we need to come up with such a finding to have a committee that has no idea how many meetings, has its president, has a 40% higher salary or I don't know how else to say it. Ensure a more transparent and practical system of sanctioned and poor or unsatisfactory work of the judge and prosecutors. It is said to ensure that it is more feasible in practice. Yeah, well, who's got all the respectable friends and colleagues in their hands now? There are over 34,000 employees on the government's list. All this, your respectable colleagues and colleagues in your position are at your fingertips. And if you now realize that it was wrong, it means that you haven’t done much in three years or four years in this area. In addition, the National Assembly notes that certain steps and procedures have been taken or have already been taken in relation to these measures and that some are under way and that the situation in the Slovenian prosecution and the conditions for good and efficient work are being gradually improved. I must say that I am deeply disappointed in all these findings. Such conclusions can be drawn at any time. It's kind of a general thing. And for that, don't mind, Mr. President. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] that you've come to the end, but when you've previously mutilated the names of certain people that you haven't put as investigators in there, and what was ultimately the effect, what the National Assembly should accept, it seems to me that it's not enough for what I expected your commission to do. [[...]] And that is why I am disappointed, just over this report and in such a form, if we adopt these conclusions or not now nothing will change much, now two months before the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Respectable present. I find it very difficult to agree that it did not complement those who had these comments in the course of these additions to this report. And, Your Honor, I don't know if what I've heard is that these proposals are not appropriate. What, though, must be done if it is not to abolish a permanent term of office for the prosecution? Ladies and gentlemen, if prosecutors and judges were not so bad, crime would not be as bad as it is. We have good lawyers and bad judges and prosecutors. That's why the bastard was rewarded. The bigger the bastard you do, the more protected you are - if you have money of course. Those little thieves, we're closing down. And that's not right! That's not right! There is a lot of crime in this Slovenia. And that's not sanctioned. We also have former prosecutors who are now lawyers and have lost their jobs as prosecutors for illegal conduct. In Primorska, however, we have cases when it locks; the fact is that we have opened one such case when unsolved cases that have been locked in the closet have been removed. The fact is known and the cause is still at large. Did we do something? Did we do something to this lawyer, to this prosecutor -- we're still doing this job? Nothing. Nothing happened. After 15 years, some may be persecuted. In fact, my president has been prosecuted for 15 years by the courts for cases that have now been dropped. And there's something else I'd like to tell you on this matter. The Slovenian national party has filed a criminal complaint against a criminal association, including judges. And Mrs. Brezigareva is hiding it under, I don't know, the bottom drawer. I do not know why this General Navigation case cannot and does not go forward transparently. And we have a number of other cases where the causers are known not to be talking about modern-day tycoons. I will touch Mr Bavčar's national hero, who was a police minister years ago, and I will take an attractive action with Mr Cosmin, and then they have agreed to just switch. He's gonna leave the ministerial office, and he's gonna go for the president of the board for a while. Today he's a millionaire, multi-millionaire, he'll have a billion soon. Why don't you lock him up? Why don't you shut down Scot who stole so much money from people? That's why we have 250,000 hungry people in the country. What are you talking about honesty? Mr. Mogue, you were the head of the gun-fighting committee. What did you do? Nothing. Nothing. You didn't do anything because you couldn't do anything and you'd never do anything. Thieves are free to walk around with their pockets full of money. Do not plant the flowers of the lady and gentlemen! The kings are left, right black and red. We weren't here. And because of such criminal acts, you must all be quiet and here you just politicize and talk about how you want to be honest. There's no honesty in this country. In the West, state officials, governments, are only giving up on suspicion of corruption. We have corrupt acts proven, we have personal uses recorded, and nothing happens. We like to talk so straight, so simple. And don't moralize and not paint people here because you have, look, and communists and LDS and real criminals in your membership. The government has them, too. Criminal gangs. That's how you finance yourself. Talking about morality and honesty today is simply rude. That's rude.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u76	Thank you very much again. Good-bye. Finding the facts, ladies and gentlemen, can't be mud. It really hurts, but it's not mud. If someone finds out the facts, it's a finding of facts. This also applies to the President of the Commission eight times eight times. About the D.A.'s office. The prosecution is an important branch of the judicial system, which is independent but independent in proceedings. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in the history of the independent country of Slovenia. And no matter how much weight we give to the findings in this report, the results of the prosecutor's work over the past period tell us that if politics had not assisted these processes in the past, things would probably have been different. And where are we today? Today, as far as the prosecution is concerned, we are at about the same point as we were then. With this difference that it is part of the policy, but interestingly, that this is not a opposition policy, that it is still the policy that was in power until 2004 that is being scrupulously sought not to drive this prosecution away from politics. This is the wrong world. This is the wrong world. We can only witness this process in Slovenia and perhaps some bananas to the Republic. Our common interest must be that this institution works effectively, independently, sovereignly. And that's only how it's gonna work if it's got capable and sovereign people working in it. Since they've been generated over the decades in the past, we know in what way, it's impossible to expect this process to happen overnight. But it would be a good idea to start doing it faster. And if one step towards this process is a reform that, through the introduction of individual different institutions, such as the financial police, is also a reorganisation of the judiciary and the prosecution and the police system, then this is the way to go, then such a commitment must be made as soon as possible in the coming mandate. I'm just afraid that the problem in these things is people, because it's up to them whether things are going to go the right way or not. We may not know how brilliant the legislation is if those who have been given this heavy responsibility do not carry it out in such a way that they are effective, and when it comes to the investigation, they close it as soon as possible and find out if they are suspected of a crime, we move on. If there's no suspicion, let's stop the matter. What's going on with us? For a few years, it weighs whether they're suspected or not. That's unacceptable. On the one hand, we have people who have been in the process for a number of years, as we have heard from my predecessor, after ten, fifteen years, there has been no suspicion. The man was in the process. On the other hand, we have cases of serious crimes and when this sphere doesn't even catch them. Look, the prosecutors are on their own, it's not one person's business. It was never one man's business. But it's important what kind of impulse this man at the top of the DA's office is giving. If we compare the current situation with that of the past, I'm sorry, these are facts. It's not because it used to be an LDS label, but now you want to stick the SDS label. The equation is different. It's different, and the impulses are different. How many cases have we had in the past that have been resounding and that have come to an end in this sense? We had some car dealer - I think it was Grubelič - because Mrs Barbara Brezigar, I think the prosecutor who brought this case to trial at the time, led the case to a conviction. And the matter has also somehow come true. I think this man's been locked up for a while. Then we had one other case, Hit, where the former President of the State gave the worst signal anyone could give in such a high place, the prosecution and the judiciary. He pardoned the defendant before serving one day in prison. He was in prison one day ago. Excuse me, what was the momentum of LDS policy in these two cases? What was the direction? The focus for the public was that if large maggots have LDS patronage behind them, they can be free. Even if convicted, they will be forgiven in one way or another. This is unacceptable, and this derogation from this sphere has occurred at the highest instance. This is unacceptable, and I don't think we can afford it anymore. In these conclusions, which are to be adopted today or beyond, there is nothing that would be disturbing and I think it is right to accept them and do everything possible to make this institution more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogomir Zamernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once upon a time, your colleague, the vice president, told his former president that he smelled too much glue, and that he was like a puppy on his last legs. Today in five hours, since I've been sitting here, we all smell glue together, and sometimes I've had the feeling that it's a little familiar. I hope this doesn't happen in my performance, too, because when you watch. Well, mate Yuri, he's already watching him get to know him. I don't know what I put him up to. It's really not my desire to qualify people, as it has been repeatedly exposed. There's always a way for me to work so that we need to talk about problems. And so if I talk about problems, you'll probably know which names are in the back. Please, I have the best opinion on Mrs Cerar myself, a very kind, pleasant lady. The fact, however, is nothing 'but', but the fact is that in the years 2000-2004, Comrade Juri, who deals with this report, was a very well-known statement by the Attorney General of the State, I am not talking about Zdenka Cerar, the Attorney General, who said that "it is the most enlightened case of the conduct of the Public Prosecutor's Office during this period in the case of Friday." Can you imagine how bad things turned out to be if this was the most successful case? You might say that's the effect of glue, but the facts are that. When we adopted the investigative commission's report on this case, let me remind you, we had a vote on the findings and conclusions of the commission I led on 15.7.2004 at 0.47. Of the 59 Members, 56 voted in favour and none, against. At the time, the glue probably wasn't in the hall. And I don't understand why today in five hours it was so necessary to talk about this case, when it would be quite easy to take a magnetogram, just like I took it -- because, you know, I went to really look at it because sometimes I had the feeling that I was wrong about the events that happened at the time. But it's all in the magnetograms of the session at the time. And those who were so clever about this case would have to do nothing but dig through the archives and find it. And also the one who said on behalf of one of the parliamentary groups that in this case today it is exclusively and only for the reputation of the judiciary and the prosecution, according to him. That it is only and exclusively the purpose of today's session. Yes, I'm asking you nicely, how is it that it's the power to tarnish the reputation of something that's already on the ground? Look at the polls! Of course, you won't say now, just pointing fingers, which, of course, bothered me in this whole five-hour debate, pointing fingers at each other. Even now, things aren't as they should be. And the price we're gonna have to pay, we're all gonna pay. How will we convince people that we are some or that some have done better will be able to confess in two months. But to say that it is solely and solely for that purpose, it is kind of irresponsible and unresponsible. Of course, someone says that, and they go out, and he's been gone for five hours. Any attempt, and I consider it, is better than nothing. And any direction or signal we give from here to get prosecutors to do better is better than nothing. And if I take your warnings for well-intentioned, believe that there is a good thing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Not everything sucks, but given that I have been sentenced to a fine for insulting potential tycoons in 1994, it never occurred to me today that I would be critical of the prosecution or the court or the judges. And I accepted this judgment as it was. Therefore, I simply do not agree with the method and method of work taken by this Commission and, therefore, I have also written a separate opinion. Because it is simple for some witnesses who are chronic witnesses for individual chapters in this report simply through the testimony given on this committee that is not entirely credible for me and I will remain with Velana. If the witness declares, even though it is all years, it is not just the period 2000-2004 that the false information that Mr Cerar was a member of the Velana Supervisory Council is, of course, doubting certain other matters and rightly doubting. And now I'm going to go to another example of the credibility of the witness of the Cypriot mayor Popovic. The President of the Commission said here today before all of us that this was the contradictory statements made by Mr Erjavac and Mr Popovic. I'm asking you nicely, and that's how I'm cheap, and I can't bring someone thirsty over the water. It was Mr Popovic's statement at the closed session that we had to close the meeting in which he lied, and when it came to Mr Erjavac, he denied it in public. And then we decided to call both of us for a trial to see if that was true or not. What is the true truth because the President of the Commission interpreted today, Mr Popovic said, read in the magnetogram: Mr Erjavec told me that he was in the office when Kučan called Mrs Cerarjevo on the phone and told her clearly about the detention of Popović. And Mr. Erjavec said that that was simply not true. So it's not a contradictory statement, listen, it's an eccentric notorious lie. He demanded that we close the session and pronounce it in a closed session. And listen, most of this committee has prevented these two people from facing each other. Preventing them from being confronted and seeing what's true and what's not true. It's not just contradictory statements, but far from that, we're an investigative commission. And you talk about facts, you talk about real facts. So in these two cases, I think it's clear enough how this commission has worked all the time, so let me have the opportunity to have the opportunity and thank God that I have the opportunity to write a separate opinion. But what I didn't write in my opinion, and I agree, and you, who tell me the Iron Man case, I completely agree, maybe I'd write even more acutely. But this is yours, because you said that the professional services prepared this, and you agree with the opinions and opinions prepared by the professional services of the National Assembly. I'm not going to argue with you about writing it even more harshly, but that's your business.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The proposed decision will be decided on Tuesday 24 June in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. I also spend my vacation until 14.15 and at the same time ask the competent services to ventilate the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u82	Dear Members and Members! I hope it's a little better, but not quite as far as the air in this room is concerned. We're moving to 38. On the agenda - debate on the Ministry's response to the Magnificent Economy. ANDREY VISAKA ON THE ENTERPRISE QUESTION OF THE LOVE OF GERMIC IN RELATION TO THE EFFECTIVES OF THE SALE OF SHARES IN STATE ENTERPRISES. At its 39th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response by the Minister of Economy of Mag. Andrej Vizjak referred to Mr Ljub Germić's question on the effects of the sale of shares in state companies. I give the floor to Mr Ljub Germić for an additional explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Minister of Economy Mag. At the April meeting of the National Assembly, I asked the visionary a clear question: How does he assess the effects of the strategy and the sale of state shares in state-owned companies in the field of metallurgy, with regard to job provision, small shareholders' remuneration and the maximisation of the selling price? It specifically referred to TDR-Metallurgy, Ruše. Since the Minister was absent, I asked for an oral answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. However, I was very surprised at the Minister's reply and ignorance, because he did not answer my question, but referred in his reply to the case of the Slovenian steel industry. Can I believe that you have not even taken enough time to read the magnetogram for the content of the question and thus showed at least a fraction of the positive attitude towards the fate of Ruš and for the environment of an important company with a 90-year tradition and hundreds of employees? I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, I can't believe this. But your answer is to show your arrogance and carelessness and to continue your attitude towards the problems of TDR, which you have also shown me in the answers to my written questions. At the time when the company was still in business, you did not feel that it was necessary to carefully examine the problems encountered and even less to propose or require certain measures to prevent bankruptcy. I hope that today we will get clearer answers on the sale of TDR-Metallurgy and on the process that led to its bankruptcy and the loss of more than 150 jobs. The public must be answered: Was the tender already written for a known tenderer on the invitation to tender for the purchase of TDR-Metallurgy shares within a period of only a good month, since it is very short for the possibility of applying for a real strategic partner, since most of them can only be found abroad? Why was W&P Profil-solarvalue selected, even though the Government knew of the poor rating of the buyer whose balance sheet statements did not point to a profitable company? Why doesn't the minister publicly present the company's appreciation? The low purchase and sale of only parts of the company in million amounts indicate a suspicion of damage to state property, of the state's non-economic behaviour at the expense of the wealth of individuals, this is the new owner. The minister is not interested in where this money is flowing, but since the company is sinking more and more, it is difficult to believe that it is going back to modernising production. Therefore, I repeat why there is no answer to the question that at the time of the purchase of EUR 229 000, the new owner sold the complex alloy production plant for the value of EUR 3.5 million and the carbide production plant for the value of EUR 4.5 million. I provide information that has been made available in the media. Why Holding Slovenske Power Plants gave their consent to unknown sales, but if he knew so much about the business plan and the investment plan, which were substantially linked to the sold production and were an integral part of the sales contract. The Minister in response to the question why the State did not partially sell the TDR-Metalurgy assets says that it did not do so because it could have put the company or its parts in bankruptcy. On the basis of this reply, can we conclude that the State, after giving its consent to resell, was only looking for the operator of the shutting down scenario, allowing him to make millions of profits? Did she get free electricity in return for better sales? What will be the fate of the workers who lost their jobs and social security in bankruptcy? We cannot agree with the Minister's response that the consequences of job losses will be the least known among the workers themselves. Such a minister’s attitude toward people also gives a better understanding of his statement in the sense that it will be necessary to eat old bread. All those who lost their jobs in TDR-Metallurgy don't deserve it. Evasing the state that the process was not affected is not acceptable. It would be correct for the State to take responsibility now that the company in bankruptcy has taken responsibility for its mistakes and has fulfilled its commitment under the Treaty to ensure that workers have employment and social security by the end of 2009, by hiring in Holding the Slovenian Power Plant. However, other measures for further employment shall be implemented during this period. Since Minister Vizjak has not answered those questions and I hope that today's debate on his incorrect answer will clarify a lot. I also expect a minister who has twice mentioned that certain pressures have also been added within this Parliament, in order to explain them accordingly. It is also right that we hear a fellow Member of Parliament, Rezman, who says he knows the most about this, even though we have not heard of it until the last period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Economy, Mr Mag. Andrei Vissiak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u85	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for having the opportunity to discuss this case today, and I would like to present in concrete terms the answers to the many questions that I have already presented, but obviously if someone does not want to hear and represents populism and especially the spirit of some who do not know the matter sufficiently and thereby demagoguely mislead this decision. But the facts are different. First of all, it's a month's notice. Partner, strategic partner for Nitrogen Plant Ruše, has been searching for eight years. Indeed, in all this time it was more than clear that the country subsidised production at the Nitrogen Plant Ruše annually with about four million euros per year. Because a huge share of production is electricity and production has not been able to cover market prices of electricity, and under the previous leadership of Holdinga Slovenske Power Plant, there has been an accelerated search for buyers, strategic buyers for the purchase of Nitrogen Plant Ruše. The Ruše Nitrogen Plant was suppressed in Holding the Slovenian Power Plant against the will of the then leadership of Holding, which comes from your LDS species. The share of the annual electricity subsidy is also approximately equal to the annual price of wages in this company. This, ladies and gentlemen, tells us how much this project was an economic project and how much it was a social project. Then there was the buyer who offered a promising development programme, for which he was also willing to guarantee. He offered to take over all the company's obligations, offered new investments in a promising programme, production of solar silica, offered to maintain all jobs and was therefore willing to pay and provide guarantees. And so, on the basis of the negotiations, there was a purchase contract. In this purchase contract, all the obligations, both as regards job retention and as regards new investments, were secured. And the buyer took over the investment liabilities. According to business plans, it was also defined as the sale of non-profit assets and the specific production of carbide was determined and the purchase from this title went to pay for both the repromaterials, the salaries of employees and other costs. The buyer has not waived any reinvestment obligations that it has assumed and still has and unremunerated guarantees for the remaining EUR 5 million through the sale of commercially needed assets, which has not been finally covered by the annexes to the contract. And honourable Messengers and Messengers! The Slovenian State, as Holding the Slovenian Power Plant, will do everything to ensure that workers are paid justly in respect of discharges. As far as I know, the proposal has already been sent to the bankruptcy manager by Holding how people will also be paid at the same time. So let me tell you that it took a long time to look for a suitable buyer, that it wanted to ensure further development, that, of course, at the time of energy intensive production in today's or in times of the year, two years ago, when the price was rising, it was very difficult and it was not true that a decision was made to sell on the neck. In the mandates of the previous government, this investment was defined in the plan or in the decree on the national, financial and real estate programme. And there was a realisation when a concrete offer came to the table. Moreover, the proposed investor also had support from the local environment, convinced the local environment that it offered a development programme and this also made an important contribution to the decision. I think it was a good decision. Unfortunately later, bankruptcy occurred in the realisation itself for reasons on the customer's side.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u87	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, once again. Mr. Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! In the LDS, we supported the proposal to hold a debate on the response of the Minister of Mags. A visionary on the question of the effects of the sale of state shares in TDR-Metallurgy, Ruše. Before explaining the reasons for our decision, however, we would like to make clear the criticism to Minister Viszak regarding his attitude towards the institution of the question. His answers reflect his arrogance, either in the insults of Members or in the deliberate avoidance of answers to the question raised. In order not to read before the answer a magnetogram of the question of the Member for which it has almost a month of time is evidence of the Minister's negative attitude towards the Member of the National Assembly. But we can also explain his actions in a different way, that is, his questions are unpleasant and he wants to hide something by his approach. The discussion on the Minister's response is necessary in our opinion, as the decisions of the Government on sales of state shares in TDR-Metallurgy, Ruše, the new owner of W&P Profile-Solarvalue holding led to the bankruptcy of TDR-Metallurgy after a good year of sale. In view of the sale process itself and the role of the custodian of the sales contract, i.e. Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, there is a number of suspicions that it was an uneconomic conduct of the State, a suspicion of damage to state assets and a lack of transparency in the proceedings. In doing so, we are surprised that the majority of SDS Members objected to today's debate, although a few days ago at an extraordinary meeting on concentration in companies, there was a need to clarify and clarify all doubts about sales in state-owned enterprises. Minister Vizjak was also in a united position. How quickly did the real picture show how quickly and carefully you see your opposing actions compared to your words. And let's remember how many readings you poured into our account. The Commission, which ran and supervised the sale process in 2006, decided to select W&P Profile-Solarvalue holding company as the most appropriate bidder for the sale of State stake in TDR-Metallurgy by which the Government gave its consent. The Commission carried out its choice on the basis of a call for tender, which provided for only a good month to submit the tender. We wonder why the decision was for such a short period of time if it was known that real and important strategic partners could also come from abroad. Did they know more and look further back then? The choice of W&P Profil-Solarvalue holding company was a surprise, as the assessment of the customer's rating based on one year of its operation was completely unprofessional and unrealistic. Especially when it comes to the sale of state property. In view of the possible speculative purchases, data from W&P Profile's operations, which are emerging from the loss trend in the past years in 2005, it would therefore be necessary to carry out a more detailed review of the company's operations. Co-ownership in W&P Profil-Solarvalue also proved to be speculative as the partners split up before the final purchase. In short, there were a number of reasons for caution. The second surprise is the value of the purchase, which amounted to a good EUR 229 000. And why is this number a surprise? Because the Minister of Mags. The visa shall not provide the document and information on the valuation carried out. That is why we ask him again today to provide us with and present a document on the company's appreciation with all the information that this document must contain. There is a variety of informal information that this was not carried out on the basis of a careful examination of the company. Today will also be an opportunity to familiarise ourselves with the business report and the content of the audit work done. According to our assessment, the country, i.e. the seller, made the following mistake or even a conscious act when it did not examine and predict the sale of TDR-Metallurgy by parts. In order to make the sale more favourable in individual parts, in terms of the cashing-up of state assets and the economic behaviour of the State, the buyer proved itself when he sold part of the so-called unnecessary assets. In doing so, at the LDS Club, the question is: Was the error just the result of a wrong business decision or was the invitation to tender written to the buyer on the skin? The price of EUR 229 000 is, for multiples, lower than almost EUR 8 million, for which the new owner sold only part of the property purchased. In the fact that certain guarantees were also returned to him, it is clear that the buyer had a very high speculative profit very quickly. The question remains also open, on the basis of which the criteria were decided by the banks, in particular the NKBM State, to grant credits. Each bank shall scrutinise the credit rating of the borrower due to the risk of default. In order to be able to express suspicion of speculative purchases, the fact that the above purchases were not intended to pay the operating obligation is further confirmed because the company was in difficulty very quickly after the sales were made. An enforcement procedure was proposed and bankruptcy was soon proposed. Such a course of events is surprising, unless the new owner has already achieved the objectives set. The owner of Alojz Cajnko at a press conference in early October 2007, when production of calcium carbide is stopped in Ruša, says that TDR-Metallurgy operates positively, despite energy complexity and older technology. It also makes it clear that its further objective is to continue selling unnecessary commercial assets and retaining one kiln for the production of silicon calcium. It is interesting to note that the press conference is also attended by the mayor of Ruše, who does not express any concerns about the course of events, although a black scenario, which, instead of increasing the number of jobs, has also been mentioned up to 1,400, leads to their loss. It is necessary to clarify how the supply and price of electricity problems suddenly arise if a five-year quantity and price contract is to be signed, almost a quarter lower than the market price in the second half of 2007. On all sales of the unnecessary business property of the new owner TDR-Metallurgy, Holding the Slovenian Power Plant actively participates, giving consent to these sales. Asking the minister how it is possible for the new owner to sell individual parts of the multimillion-dollar property, the minister coldly writes that these purchase values are unknown to him and that they do not have an insight into the current operation of the W&P Profile. So no one from the HSE, no one from the ministry cares where the cash flows from the purchases are directed, even though there is a series of informal hints that money is being slyly poured from TDR-Metallurgy into other companies, also owned by Mr Cainko. No one is interested in whether TDR-Metallurgy has come into such difficulties due to cross-trade between various companies of Mr Cajnka and that this way TDR-Metallurgy is exhausted. At the same time, while selling parts of TDR-Metallurgy is certainly clear to all actors involved, I would like to stress in particular that commitments from the business plan and the investment plan will not be implemented. Therefore, commitments from the business plan and the investment plan will not be implemented as both programmes are prepared without the envisaged sale of the plant for the production of special castings and carbide. This means that the company is consciously going into trouble, because it is impossible to think about investing in a car, selling bicycles and motors. And the same has happened here in the framework of TDR-Metallurgy. At the same time, it is clear that the commitment of the buyer will not be realized, so that by the end of 2009, 275 workers will be employed in the company for an indefinite period of time and in the company of TDR to a disabled company of 66 workers. The responsibility for the situation must be borne by Holding Slovenian Power Plants, which allowed sales without providing for the consequences of employment in TDR-Metalurgy, in the form it was sold. In this way, the country generates its own proposal for a compulsory settlement through HSE and then the bankruptcy proposal. We may wonder whether such a scenario is in the interest of the actors. Let me speculate here. Mr Cajko is most likely satisfied because he deserves to sell parts of the property under bankruptcy proceedings, and he will most likely show interest in obtaining one kiln for the production of silicocalcium is the right term, but which he said calcium silica - apart from calcium silicate as he had already indicated before. The HSE group is excluded from TDR as a non-digare at the same time release the significant quantities of electricity that HSE will sell to other customers most likely at a higher price, so both are satisfied. At the same time, with the owner and director of Tajnko, who destroyed the company, the state made concessions for the home of the elderly in Ruša and Lovrence in Pohorje. We don't know what kind of cow the government is taking in or the congregation with this man. Is it the power to understand their silence and actions? In doing so, the people employed in this company were left unemployed, without social security. The minister says it won't be a problem. The consequences will be least known to the workers themselves. It would be good if you came to the Russian factory and told them that. Such statements are, however, the power to expect from a minister who invites people to eat old bread. Such an understanding of this government is socially threatened, that is, people who are in distress. It would be fair for people to be employed at the Slovenian Power Plant Holding by the end of 2009 and to create retraining programmes and create conditions for the creation of new jobs. This would be possible, as the contract provided that for each worker's dismissal the buyer must pay a fine of EUR 10,000 per month, from which the "fund" could also pay these jobs. Of course, another question is asked. Although holding the Slovenian power plant has a guarantee in its hands, it has obligations under the contract, but no one commits Holding the Slovenian power plant to return this money to this environment, to invest again in this environment and create conditions for new jobs. At the LDS, we call on the minister to clarify his statements of pressure, which have been made from different sides of Parliament as well. The Slovenian public has the right to know the exact details of the process that led TDR-Metallurgy to bankruptcy. The public must be presented to those who have played an important role in this. Can we talk about political pressures or do business or personal interests prevail, and when did they begin? Did the opposition to the correctness of the sale of TDR-Metallurgy to Mr Cajnko by the SDS Regional President and at the same time a member of the TRD Metallurgy Supervisory Board during the period of sale constitute an influence on the party colleagues in the SDS? This is for Mr Zagozno, as President of the HSE administration and Mr Visionak as Minister. How did decisions fall, either professionally or politically? Who are the people who exerted pressure? What kind of pressure were these? It is also interesting that the mentioned one made good progress in the company, was later recognized for the technological surplus and is now receiving a well-deserved pension. However, this way he lives a much different, better life than the rest of those who have lost their jobs. There are many questions, very few answers. We expect the Minister to provide clear, unequivocal answers in today's debate. For the sake of clarity, however, we are asking for a report on the basis of which he would decide to proceed. Above all, we expect proposals for solutions that will remedy the damage caused by the past irresponsible conduct and the consent given to poor decisions and the sale of state property, the amounts of which have been made into private pockets, with the concern for the employees of the last Spanish village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Horvat, on behalf of the NSI Group of Members, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister with co-worker! I am very pleased that the Institute of the Question of Parliament clearly understands this government better when it comes to the question of the opposition Member of Parliament. In fact, alone and my colleagues have experienced that we are some kind of a question, not just to Mr Magi right now. The visionary was placed and rejected because he was too local. I do not want to say that this question is irrelevant to my colleague Ljubo Germič. It is only right for Members to stand up and how we stand up for our local environment. I could also ask my colleagues from Pomurje a lot of questions around Mura, but I prefer a different practice when we sit down with Minister Viszak and other ministers and see what can be done for a concrete enterprise of exceptional importance in the northeastern part of Slovenia, with a delay, because everyone in some way, the minister himself knows that, too, we are shaking for it. At its 39th meeting, the National Assembly agreed that the State Assembly would hold a debate today on the response of the Minister for the Economy of Magi. Andrej Visiak asked Mr Ljub Germić about the effects of the sale of shares in state companies. I hope, too, my colleagues and colleagues in the New Slovenia Group, that after the six hours and thirteen minutes reserved, we will produce some sort of report on the sale of the shares of the factory Duika Ruše - Metalugria d.d., Ruše, and the events after the sale of the shares to the bankruptcy of this company. Allow to start a shorter or longer introduction. New Slovenia advocates the concept of a socio-market economy, as developed by the European Christian Democratic Party. Of all economic systems, this concept brings together the most successful advantages of private ownership of capital, the freedom of private initiative and the market with social adjustments and the principles of solidarity and justice. A successful economy is the material foundation on which the state stands and which is at the same time a marriage for its stability and prosperity of citizens. As responsible politicians, we should strive to establish, in a democratic process, a level playing field for all economic operators, where success and efficiency depend primarily on ability. The main driver of effective economic development is a responsible private initiative. In the new Slovenia, we advocate deregulation and accelerated privatisation and limited interventions of the country into individual economic problems. We see the role of the country in the economy in creating equal opportunities for all and in consistently defending market legality in the face of social regulation. As far as possible, the State must withdraw as its owner from major economic and financial companies, and it must prevent a monopoly in all three market segments in the economy, finance and labour market. For economic priorities, special emphasis is placed on the small and medium economy. For Slovenia, which is not rich in natural raw materials, we see a perspective in the production and marketing of high-quality retail products. Support for quality assurance and control should become a basic guide in setting country priorities to support individual economic activities and investments. Large economic complexes should be created spontaneously on the basis of rationalisation and economic efficiency, but not on the basis of political decisions. We believe that Slovenia should be more open to foreign investment. Especially for those that constitute higher forms of economic cooperation, or more permanent investments in the domestic economy and in other areas. At the same time, we are working towards such a legal arrangement that will encourage the reinvestment of profits back in Slovenia. The dynamic economy ensures the growth of overall productivity in the country and provides the basis for high standards in the social and cultural field. In our country, the interdependence of all citizens due to the small size of the economy is particularly important. The economic policy of the country must therefore provide an opportunity to flourish in a general innovative environment that can deliver faster development and a rapid response to changes in a narrower or wider economic environment by creating new ideas. Enterprise-friendly governance must thus enable the environment to care for it, to care for it carefully and to provide the foundations for the future. Economic operators need a friendly legal state. We oppose the direct interference of the country with individual companies. The State should provide appropriate, general environment and dynamic development with friendly and expert and scientific evidence-based development support. The impact of economic policy is appropriate if it makes sense to support the creativity of economic operators and allows them to cooperate in order to make the best possible use of the country's actual capacity to achieve the greatest possible social product. A friendly rule of law ensures legal certainty for all economic operators in accordance with the principle of equal opportunities for all. The goal in Slovenia must be an innovative company with business citizens. The dynamic economy has a perspective based on the innovation of citizens and incentives for innovation in society. It is therefore essential to encourage innovation, not to talk about an appropriate tax policy, which is of course crucial to enhancing competitiveness. Again and again in Slovenia, we ask ourselves what should still be done in Slovenia in order not only to catch up, but also to catch up. This is our question, which we ask again and again in Novi Slovenije. In this framework we would also put the topic of privatisation of state property. Of course, the answer is always simple in principle. Slovenia must strengthen its development capacity to be able to innovate and find income niche where it can [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] income. [[...]] Then it goes on, so it has to have research and development, highly educated experts, it has to have entrepreneurship, it has to be competition. We know all that. That's what we all say. It's very popular to talk about the Lisbon Strategy today. This is, in fact, the way we talk about the subject. However, the question is how would we apply this, for example, the privatisation of state property. We are convinced that without companies based on their development in Slovenia, the so-called endogenous economic growth in Slovenia is not possible. Without companies located here in Slovenia, they have their headquarters here, Slovenia will not become one of the developed countries in Europe. We can catch up with the developed, but we won't catch up with them. It is likely that those who are best acquainted with the Nitrogen Plant Ruše - Metallurgy, the most creative, most productive in the drafting of the report I mentioned at the beginning, and I really hope that we will get it. Let me remind you, according to our modest information, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in its Decree on the Programme for the Sale of State Finance and Real Property for 2004 and 2005, submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the Proposal for a Budget for 2004 and 2005, also defined a proposal for the sale of shares in TDR-Metalurgija d.d., Ruše, which is owned directly by the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant d.o.o., which we know is 100% owned by the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the proposal for the sale of TDR shares was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the previous mandate. The evidence that HSE has not done enough to prevent the disaster that took place in the local environment in Ruša is, in our opinion, unfounded. Again, according to our modest information, HSE and TDR representatives have met more than 20 times in the last 6 months, and the correspondence has taken place virtually daily. Representatives of employees, labour councils and trade unions were often included in the interviews. However, all the negotiations did not produce results, since the TDR buyer constantly amended the proposals or did not stick to the agreements reached. It's just a few modest contributions from our side. As we say, we want to hear more about those who know more about this story. Of course we'll only hear the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Kristijan Janc has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The question of Mr Germić's fellow Member, which we are discussing today, has been raised quite specifically. He was interested in the effects of the sale of shares in state-owned companies, specifically, the sale of the Nitrogen Plant Ruše, which is now somewhere during the forced settlement and bankruptcy and, worst of all, more than 150 people have lost their jobs. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we supported the request for a debate, as it seems important that those who know about the matter also make it public to others and finally to the general public. We're not in favor of flat-rate charges, and we don't think it's just an average thing to accuse the minister and the government. Today, the Minister will have the opportunity to respond to all the confusion and dispel the suspicions of the government and the ministry. However, a fellow Member will have the opportunity to obtain appropriate explanations or satisfactory answers that he did not receive on his question. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware of the difficult situation in which the company is located. We are concerned about every time people lose their jobs and lose their income for survival. It is bad for each individual, family, even the congregation and the region. I won't judge what happened in this case at the Nitrogen Factory because I don't know enough about it. However, colleague Germič argues that the sales strategy itself was not good. The Minister claims that it was later complicated that the buyer obviously overestimated his abilities or otherwise that the buyer wore too many shoes when purchasing this company. The fact is that Holding Slovenian Power Plants has long sought a suitable strategic partner for the continuation of production or for resale for some further development of this company. The process of selling, searching for a buyer, obtaining guarantees, negotiating, took a very long, eight years. Finally, only a buyer appeared, which also guaranteed bank guarantees amounting to EUR 6 million and ensured that he would maintain jobs, upgrade development projects and programmes and that the company would develop further. So far, so good, for both the seller and the buyer and the employees. And Holding just sold this company, as we know, in 2006. Unfortunately, apparently this new customer was unable to meet the conditions of the sale, was unable to provide new jobs or maintain them and was unable to invest in updates and became in trouble. Unfortunately, the State has no effect on objective or subjective reasons why the buyer has become in difficulty and fails to comply with the contractual obligations when purchasing that company. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that they were intended for sale definitely good, for the Nitrogen Factory, for employees, for the environment from which the most employees come. The new strategic partner is expected to develop society, not bankruptcy. However, we are concerned that things have deteriorated so much, and we still hope that an appropriate solution can be found, especially because of workers who have lost their jobs. This story after this event in Ruša, I believe, is certainly not yet complete and complete. And given the well-known facts that the Government will, in the framework of the powers it has in this area, do everything, along with the competent services within the country, to ensure that it can take such and other measures for the unemployed and, together with the owner, with the bankruptcy manager, find the most favourable solutions for the future of these people who have lost their jobs. However, I also understand my fellow Members and the mayors in this environment, the concern for this company in the abolition of jobs, as I have, in the past, experienced a similar story in the municipality, in the case of the bankruptcy of the company Jutraňka, the loss of jobs of Shivili, once one of Slovenia's most respected children's confections and all the negative consequences that have taken place in the micro-environment, I know the municipality very well and I have also experienced it as mayor. In doing so, you are more or less powerless than the mayor you observe these stories around you, you warn the competent institutions, in the company of the supervisory council, the management of the company, you organize meetings, coordination, you ask for favourable solutions, which is more or less all by the local environment, local policy, if you want, or even the mayor. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. And we are also in the final stage, we understand Members as politicians that politics is somehow going out of the economic environment itself, which I think is the right thing to do. Together, we believe, in the Slovenian People's Party, that we will willingly find other solutions as already mentioned between the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, the buyer, the barbaric manager, the local community. Perhaps today's debate, which is open today for six hours, will help. And if anything helps the welfare of the unemployed in this environment, it will certainly be good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u92	Thank you. Dr. Matthew Lachovnik. He's not here. Mr Willi Rezman will present the views of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of the Retired. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me start by saying that the DeSUS Group is very pleased that the coalition Members have allowed this debate to take place here today at all. I will be alone, as you can see, today for the first time since I came to this council, more than one small sheet of paper, so that I will not need, like the respected Mr. Germich, to talk about informal information and how he is imagining something in his fantasies, but that I will be able to prove with the empirical data that has been paid with more than 10,000 euros of those companies that have researched it. I will only use the first part of the minute to say what kind of political connotation this debate is going on, and later I will do business things that Mr Germič does not understand. Firstly, in the municipality of Ruše, Mr Germič gathered information from LDS local officials, the losers of the previous elections, and so he also delivered his address, otherwise he would not mention the mayor and his name very often. And I wouldn't have the need to spread the truth. When he was talking about how the mayor, William Rezman, there was nowhere to hear, he was being lied to. It's being lied to by workers, it's being lied to by unions, it's being lied to by representatives of the workers' council, it's being lied to by representatives of the state, it's being lied to by the bankruptcy manager, it's being lied to by the manager of the forced settlement, it's being lied to by the owner, and everyone who's been involved with me in this process. I regret to say that Mr Germić was not present once, even though I am talking about a number of ten meetings, that I am talking about how often it has been written about this in various media, that it has been turned on local LDS, in slogans, nonstop what I have been saying. This has been reported by other means of public information from radio forwards and so on and so on. For these, I'd say personal traumas, of course, I don't have a cure, I don't have a wish. Mr Germić will have to think about this on his own and perhaps needlessly not to mention my name, especially when, as he said, he has to invent when he has to speculate. Otherwise, it's a little different. As far as TDR-Metallurgy is concerned, this story is relatively long, and I will now do the part that talks about what we've been trying to do. My personal contribution, which Mr Germič, who is a member of the municipal council, has not noticed, is that in the municipality of Ruše I am the mayor and where I have reported this where I have reported on the supervisory board, and Mr Germič has not noticed anything yet. So, so far, I have proposed three proposals, operational. The first proposal was, this will be confirmed by gentlemen sitting behind me, gentlemen from HSE, that if they assess that the new leadership is not capable of running this company, they have sold it to take it into their own hands and lead it themselves. That wasn't acceptable to them. This was also suggested by a supervisory council in the Ruše municipality, also headed by someone from the opposition party from the LDS in Ruša. My second proposal was to set up by HSE, the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, a procurator who would be able to keep an eye on everyone who would have to sign everything, who would know everything and who would co-decision. Unfortunately, this proposal was not acceptable either. The third operational proposal, what I'm talking about is written down, I don't mean informal information, as my Mr Germič would like to say here in Parliament, my third proposal was to release the guarantees, in such a way that the deposits that lie on the New Credit Maribor with the Secession Contracts will immediately pass as a source of funds for the purchase of raw materials, as an advance to HSE for the purchase of energy and as a means of paying wages. This was also signed by three representatives from HSE and the Ministry of Economy as an acceptable proposal for reflection. Well, none of this worked. I have a meeting tomorrow morning at 6:30, I think, with Canadians in the Russians who are ready to buy a company. I'll wait to see what their offer is. A little later I have a meeting with bankers and with those who know about it, with Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant and with the owner, to find out what can be done with the money still available as a deposit. My proposal is that this money be released, that this money settles one of Metallurgy's claims to the New Credit Bank and that the rest of the money is earmarked for the payment of workers' departures. If this agreement is eventually adopted or modified, workers will immediately come to what they are entitled to. So this is my fourth proposal, which I don't know about yet, I haven't noticed in any of these proposals any of the local politicians, not even those who act on the republican level as a co-worker. However, some have spoken in the context of the questions sent, where they know that Mr Rezman does not have a word under the Rules of Procedure. It was easier to talk there. The history of our metallurgy is relatively long, the "factory" once had 2,300 employees and we were all proud of it, including myself, who once worked in it. Then this "factory" collapsed after its independence, with 2,300 remaining employees of about 800 and the then SRD to which the management and ownership of the "factory" came, sold out the individual parts. He received the 25 million marks at the time for these individual parts, which are today, thank God, more or less successful and poured all this money into other companies in Slovenia. Nothing happened at the Nitrogen Plant Ruša. At the Ruše Nitrogen Factory there are two other technologically obsolete and non-pregnant programs: carbida [[?]] and foreclosure [[?]] which they then merged into a company called Metallurgy. In 1997, this metallurgy was not present at the time, Mr Rezman was not present, but the Minister was not included in many others, and the company went into a forced settlement. She went into a forced settlement because she was in a bad business. Well, then the electricity debts were converted into equity shares and became the owner of Eles. And after a forced settlement was made, the company did relatively decent business for a while. He later became the new owner of HSE and in 2002, 2003, 2004 the company gained around EUR 5 million in losses. At that time, some other people were running the company, not from the current ruling coalition, and they went to the directors of one and the other people every day, not Mr Rezman. Mr Rezman also occasionally went when the director called him when he had problems and asked him for help. And then, when it was clear that this firm couldn't operate in the long run, so then the HSE also banned investment, banned technological improvements, and nothing happened anymore. Since it was possible, I can't prove it because I don't have this paper, and that's my guess, all left to the firm to shut down slowly. But it did happen that at least some were active in finding solutions. They did not abuse "firms", workers and workers simply to promote themselves politically here and there. This company Metallurgy was interested in many companies. Now I'm going to give them a heads-up so that those who talk about how everything went on their noses won't make mistakes. What I'm talking about here is documented. Customers interested in Engelhardt from the United States, the letter of intent was even concluded. It was MTI, it was one company, and Facchi Europe from Italy, prepared letter of intent, SKW from Germany, Kazkrom from Kazakhstan, Fesil from Norway, Andin, Argentina, DCM from Austria, Palco from Germany, First Industrial from Luxembourg, Wire@profile from Slovenia and EFM from Slovakia. I didn't count all of them, just a few of them who were a little more observant. This company was then, as you know, after the previous authorities adopted the sales decree, also actually sold. It was sold for a relatively low amount because the value of the company was zero. So the company was worth nothing, like a company, not like walls. Because she had a whole series of debts that the new buyer had to take over. These debts amounted to EUR 5.5 million. And this debt had to be settled by the new buyer. I am sure that this would even have worked if, of course, the restructuring process had not been, but it was thought out over a period of five years, after a good year, really had been interrupted. It was interrupted by the fact that it was no longer allowed to sell commercially unnecessary property, inn, land, laboratory, energy, which was prepared for 2,300 people, and now as you can see only a good 200. The railway, which was capable of transporting 700,000 cubic metres, carried only one composition this year, and everything else came with trucks. But there are 25 people working on this segment. And since it was impossible to sell it, there were no more adequate means to position production. Even today, it lies at a bank in Maribor with 3.3 million euro deposits that we are talking about, and we judge them to be wise and to relax them in such a way as to settle the debts of Metallurgy and to pay the workers with this money. Based on the rights they were granted in bankruptcy. Some ask how the new owner suddenly became so rich. Let me tell you, I've got some photocopies on my desk. You can all come in and copy it. That's what the owner let me do. But I'm not allowed to present this study because I was forbidden to do so. This is a study done by KPMG, which has only been mediated by me to read, but I cannot talk about it. And this study basically confirms what I'm saying. But as for the purchases, which were slightly more than eight, with taxes worth slightly more than eight million euros, they were settled: the first two million went to settle the loan concluded by the former Director, who was made by the former Director in 2003 and never paid back. He wasn't from our coalition logs. The next 3.5 million went to pay HSE electricity. The next million went to pay for electricity to other suppliers because HSE did not supply energy all the time. The next money went to pay for VAT, something for transportation and something for small bills that had to be paid and amazing, which Mr. Germič will probably be most surprised to have run out of something in his pocket. There was nothing left to share. Up there is what you can photocopy and read. The remaining 3.3 million who lie on the bank and we will talk about tomorrow are, so I suggest, a completely realistic possibility that, for the first time, debts will be settled, and for the second time that the bankruptcy manager, with whom I am constantly involved, will be able to call for a new sale and get a possible new buyer in autumn. Who's gonna know right now? Let's hope the one who knows the company will have a good time. Now I'm going to have to save five minutes for replicas, finish, or I should talk here for two or three days to teach those who don't know much about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u94	Thank you. Mr Friend will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, interestingly, when we listen to such stories in which the mayor of the municipality in question also says that he will try to arrange for the sale of this company tomorrow, of course, for a thing that is not his and says that there is also 3.5 million euro deposited there. Of course, the workers have not yet been paid their pension. He also lists what has already been paid and what all or how many millions have gone through. In the last row, there are those who have created this profit or this value. You know, unnatural wealth is normal after takeover. This has happened in most companies. And if there is anything smart about those who are obliged to monitor the way and procedures for the sale of state property, we should find out why an enterprise has years and years to live, and then when it sells, when it gets a new owner, it grows up all of a sudden. This was also the case in the General Navigation and, for example, in other companies. I'm not gonna talk about this right now. Selling shares of Slovenian companies at a market price is already a special chapter of crime in Slovenia. I'm not accusing the Minister or the Government of this, but I'm essentially accusing the law enforcement authorities of allowing and allowing it, we're paying them, and they're not doing their job. Look, all the actors are known, all the violations are clear, and if we really want to end this, then we should talk about a legal state that isn't. Why the law enforcement agencies don't do their job, I don't know. But I know the D.A. is helping them. The prosecution has many lawsuits, and I wrote one myself with the help of professional colleagues and general shipping lawyers, and it is likely that it will not be in court for a long time, as the Attorney General does not have to go forward. But we'll hand it over to the international court mills and let them wash our dirty laundry. In short, what's happening in Slovenia is kind of a daily practice and it's already stolen on a white day without shame, and we're just talking about it, we're setting up commissions, we're discussing, in short, this babbling will not bring any fruit. After all, we can do this even when the electoral period or the pre-election period that we are witnessing today is, and I believe that this debate, to my deep regret, will end without the proper results. After all, the open question remains, of course, who will make an apology to the workers and who will pay the workers, who will give the workers an appropriate answer? Nobody. We don't really care about you anyway. Who are the workers? Those who create added value today, of course, also enable current policies, or current policies or the current economy, to make themselves rich. In doing so, the government is closing its eyes and, as has already been said, to the great shame that we find in the Slovenian National Party, the prosecution is still helping. Why aren't there any criminal charges filed? I also ask the proposer of today's meeting. Why didn't he just file a criminal complaint? We did it. Why doesn't he press charges? Well, it's not an omen, but I'm just asking. You know, it's not just this company, Metallurgy Ruše, we have a number of other companies that are not even there today, but we don't care at all in this National Assembly why they don't exist. I'm talking about Kolinski, for example, and about Drugs and Tobacco, I could also list a number of other companies that we sold because they were good companies, competitive companies on the European market and someone bought them just to close them. We've got workers on the road today. But we also have companies, of course, which were our Slovenian national pride, but we sold them to foreigners, although we had excellent offers from Slovenian economic operators offering more money than a foreigner offered, but we changed the way we sold, we invented new procedures, not us, so those who ran it. Even considering transfers at government meetings under points that were not and do not exist, this is now considered by the Commission to control the budget, and believe me, we will find that under this point 5a, when the General Navigation was discussed, this point was not at all at the Government's meeting and the materials were confidential. It is interesting that some data on the transparency of sales, which is supposed to be the basis of this democracy, cannot be obtained, such as the purchase contract for the divestment of a German State interest. Isn't it interesting that we can't get this contract? It's still hidden. And it is also interesting in this case, which we are considering today, that we have €3.5 million deposited. But we owe the workers. Why don't we just raise and settle the claims on workers first? Then there will probably be less dissatisfaction. And this study, which we have heard of inexorably, a few words, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to know the recipe for how a company that does not work, which is almost before bankruptcy, to be eloquent with magical words, perhaps a minimum input to bring you almost 300% of the profits in one year and a half! I'd really like to know, and I'm gonna buy a bad company, and I'm gonna borrow money, because someone's gonna lend me a loan, and I'm gonna use that recipe. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Rezman, if you'll give me this study, I'll really copy it. Of course it's speculative purposes, ladies and gentlemen. But speculation is a crime, and you won't admit it. And in a speculative way, many have enriched, including our national heroes. I was talking about one earlier, Mr. Bavčar. And we have a variety of economists who can measure the sum of money that is greater than Bill Gates' gross social product; I mean brewers, those who are good and can make money with beer. But of course this is not of interest to Slovenian criminals, nor to the Slovenian judiciary, nor to the Slovenian prosecution. In short, what else can I say than that we are in a vicious circle, that we like to talk about it, we also like to talk about how we sold national symbols like the Slovenian steel industry, and then we can see that we also sold Iskraemeca, and we also sold the General Sailing already mentioned above, and there is probably Zlatorog, who is no longer Zlatorog today, and Istrabenz, who is no longer Istrabenz, but is OMW, Zlatorog has Henkel in the front and so on. In short, who is responsible for these companies that have been sold below the price, which have been sold in such a shameful way and have enabled some individuals to make a mad fortune? We won't find any answers to that, because we don't want to find them. These players are between the left and the right and between the red and the black, and this continues and will continue. The closer we get to the elections, the more money the customers need, and that's why they steal, simply, I'll use those hard, rough words, steal. The places are very transparent, transparent, and prosecutors are given the task of keeping quiet about this. The police have made it clear to me that they must not deal with a matter such as General Navigation. Ladies and gentlemen, we live in Slovenia, a democratic Slovenia, to be told by the body responsible for the prosecution of crime. But that's it. The "Kosovo Commission" has already had a year and a half of all the material, we have received a partial report that tells us that big pigs have been going on in the General Navigation and let's hope that we will get final reports. I spoke to the president today. The prosecution does not have a criminal complaint and the law enforcement authorities must remain silent on the official order. To this day, the Court of Auditors has not reviewed the prudential supervision. Where are we? I would say so somewhere out there in some banana republic, and as long as this National Assembly will have the same reputation as it does, it is not honorable to be a Member that no one will represent himself, and so will you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr Sašo Peče will present the position of the Lip Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! Allow first a word or two about the so-called anti-corruption commission or the "Kosovo Commission". If the National Assembly did not dictate to the 'Kosovo Commission', then the Commission could give a number of results, but when some grow only on the mouth and refer to some declaration level on the 'Kosovo Commission' that it does not have any effect, on the other hand, they do everything to ensure that the same, substantively identical Commission cannot do anything because it has been engaged in the law for years and years, which says how to abolish it. Allow me to begin by congratulating my fellow Member, Ljubo Germič, for the introductory or substantive part. Comrade Germič, all congratulations to you that you have managed, rarely any of the opposition or not, even the government Members succeed - to bring the debate to the National Assembly. On the fingers of one hand, we could count the cases of a Member, whether opposition or ruling, being able to bring about such a debate as we are witnessing today and here. Why? Because always the ruling majority is voting against it. From this town, I really think, Comrade Germich, all congratulations. I've never been able to do that before. I've always been voted out, let it be just Tuesday, that's yesterday, about quite the same Meltal story from Maribor. Boštjan Zagorec’s colleague failed this many times in Paloma’s story. Not because of its incompetence, poor organisation, but because there was always a ruling majority who refused to talk about the matter in front of television cameras or refused to talk to representatives of the Government, who here and there, Mr. Vizjak, find and say that everything is in the best order, some even signed under a notebook that says how economic growth is, how everything is beautiful and right in our country and distribute it to a million and several addresses. In short, thirdly, but just because I really mean it, colleague Germich, all congratulations, I don't know how you did it, how you convinced the Members that they supported your idea of discussing it. However, I would like to highlight, very briefly, the content and subject matter of the matter. Whoever's going to be talking or asking about the procurator's actions today. Please. Let's look at the other companies where the state, the government, is setting up procurators. Who are these people? These are the same people who all come in line from the SDS party. And what their punishment is. They answer at the declaration level. Yes, to whom and when in this country did these people answer?Oh, my God! Let's take a look at the latest stories from Paloma. Let's just say over the thumb - 35 kilometers from the Nitrogen Plant Ruše. And the procurators are changing, they're always the same, again Friday's friends or, in other words, Janš's friends. But the effect on them, ladies and gentlemen, is never any. Who are we blinding when we're talking about a procurator? But how will the procurator guarantee the correctness of the business, please! Is that so? We're sealing our eyes, our ears, our mouths so the procurator can solve the matter. In three four sentences, it is possible to illustrate the story taken to the National Assembly by a fellow Member. Do you know how much they bought the company or how much the person is concerned - let me just say, HSE, Holding Slovenian Power Plants, DEM, Drava Power Plant Maribor, when they are just these people and, of course, I apologize, I hope you didn't mind, MG, Ministry of Economy, Mr. Vizjak, who sits here - or do you know how much they bought the case? I was told today not to say a particular number, but to say a few hundred thousand euros. Specifically, it was €230,000. And what are later gentlemen, let me just say, once again, were involved in this, HSE, Holding Slovenian Power Plants, DEM, Drava Power Plant Maribor, I believe we all know the surnames, and MG, Ministry of Economy, Minister who sits behind me, for 230 thousand euros! And how much did they sell the case for when, let's say, domestically, they split it? I was also told to say more than €10 million. For 16 million euros, ladies and gentlemen! And then there's someone in this National Assembly who's trying to pin the blame on the "Kosovo Commission" who's trying to pin the blame on the procurator or in the form of a procurator to prove a rescue plant. No, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the stage where friends, Ministry of Economy, SDS, Drava power plant Maribor, prominent representatives of SDS in Maribor, in this case I will avoid New Slovenia because we are not in the area of Paloma, working hand in hand. They work hand in hand to this extent, gentlemen, that theirs is not only profit, not just neglecting people who have lost jobs - I see a few smiles on the faces of SDS Members. If that's funny, then it's a disaster for this country. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a party's affiliation, but let it be a party's affiliation, and I will purposely appoint only for the case, Resa, because there is no one here, but it must not be a motto for such scoundrels, criminal acts as you do. I believe, and I know, we are in 2008 and this year we will meet at the national elections. All of us will probably be painted on the jumbo posters, smiling, ostracized teeth, and saying, tomorrow we'll be better off if you trust us. And that we will be talking about this kind of corruption in 2012 when the next Prime Minister of the Government is, it doesn't matter who he is or whether he will be the Prime Minister of the Government of Janez Janša or the Prime Minister of Borut Pahor or the last President of the Government of Barbara Žgajner Tavš, they will then talk and find out what was wrong in 2007 or 2008. That we then accepted conclusions or that if we called the procurator, everything would be wonderful and beautiful in our country. Once again, I stress the information that I think is most important, and about which I have heard in my right ear a comment from behind the sitting minister, the Minister of Economy of Mr Visionak, who will, as ever, do 'nothing', and whether I will appoint him Minister of the South or appoint him otherwise, perhaps Ivanko, Zvon 1 or any other Bell. Ladies and gentlemen, they bought the matter, and this time I will follow the advice, for a little over €100,000, then they split it up and sold it for a little more than €10 million. Our parliamentary debate will take place in the same direction that, with all due respect, Comrade Rezman will acknowledge his colleague Ljubo Germić and his colleague Ljubo Germić will return to his colleague Rezman. Of course, if we have this kind of debate, then this kind of debate will only lead to what I believe is the intention of the government to have two players who struggle a little compared to what they actually earned in this business, if they had anything at all. And if the memory doesn't deceive me, and it doesn't deceive me, I could listen to the same gentleman, Mr. Minister of Economy Andrej Visiak, on a Saturday back on the working body of the Economics Committee, as we learned in 2008 the story of takeovers, when we came to realize in 2008 that the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Bank of Credit, two government banks, not state banks, but government banks, and that is a significant difference, ladies and gentlemen, are allowing the financing of all acquisitions within our country or, I apologize, most of the acquisitions in our country. That the Administration and the Supervisory Committee, and all the authorities under the Banking Act or, lastly, the Company Act grant the right of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to set up, deploy its people to the institutions in question, and then we will say: "In 2008 we met parking places in our country." While all of us are 90, I sincerely hope that at least all of us 90 knew about the above-mentioned issues, as well as all members of the government, the whole government cabinet, should be from Fridays to worlds, however, of the above-mentioned matters, and that we would come just before the elections and before people in a humiliating and most primitive manner and say to them, "Oh, this year this happened, there were bad guys who are immoral, who are the villains." Meanwhile, they forgot to say that legislation in this area that allowed it, but adopted the National Assembly on the proposal of the same minister in 50% and another minister, Mr Bajuk's Finance Minister in 50%. We must be aware that it was not until December 2007 that we limited banking transactions, i.e. those that finance acquisitions for the subsequent exploitation of companies in the form of business impoverishment. It was not until December 2007 that we started to talk in the National Assembly in the framework of a very meaningless, very simple debate under the Law on takeovers. But that went right past us. If it were not for this year's election, whether someone is so naive as to believe the story, to have a "pure shovel" or to have an anti-Taikunkun session, as the media then referred to it, and say, "Oh, our Prime Minister, Mr. Janez Janša, is indeed "gods." "God" because in three and a half years, when he had scissors and canvas in his hands, he failed to tame, but I will say, the Office for the Protection of Competition or the Agency for the Market in Securities, not least the Minister of Economy, but the Minister of Finance. But no. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia said and the National Assembly also agrees with it, but in May and 6 months, it is a good time for our ignorant citizens, politically completely primitive, to familiarise themselves with parking lots and therefore in this work to complete it again, although I said that three times was enough, all congratulations to have succeeded my colleague Germić, have not been able to do so in four years. I don't know, maybe I couldn't convince the Members, and even my colleague Zagorec couldn't convince them. Even though Paloma's story is a few times more or I won't overdo it, it's just as catastrophic as it is. With Paloma d.d., I think, with little or no political responsibility, but with little personal responsibility, she could save herself from the swallowing and greed of individuals who are fueled within you by the ruling Members coming from the SDS, NSI, after all, the Slovenian People's Parties, and like the ostriches, keep your head in the ground again and again, so that those friends who are close, whether the Minister of Economy or Petkov will withdraw the amount of profits in a year, year and a half, perhaps even in six months, but no, you will always stand by them. Is this a party discipline, or is this a mission, a vision of representatives of the National Assembly? I don't think so. But it's up to each of us to decide for ourselves. One of the speakers in front of me was talking about speculative business. No, but what happened in Rush is not speculative business. One who claims or does not know what speculative business means or speaks in three days. Speculative business, ladies and gentlemen, is very different. Anyone who knows a little about the stock market knows what speculation is. Speculation is, one of the last cases is optional business, a law that we dealt with yesterday and for which I put my hand in the fire that half of the Members did not know what instruments were made. But that's speculation. It's speculation that carries some kind of risk. The story of Ruš, the story of Paloma and the little sea are in our country, are far from speculation, because every speculation comes with a risk. The story of Rush, the story of Paloma, all these stories behind you don't carry a risk to the main actors. The main players at the beginning know, step into a minimum wager deal, step out of business with, and I'm sorry I don't know a bigger or stronger term than the maximum, with a maximum ransom. So we're not talking about speculative business because there was no risk in this business. The only risk that might arise is the risk of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia replacing, in the meantime, the new government, which, unlike the government of Janez Janša, would have so many principles, integrity or, not least, responsibilities to those generations ahead of us that these companies would not create, on the basis of friendship, capital friendship, so that they would not be mistaken, "golf friendship" that they would not be mistaken, or ultimately even party friendship, to ignore the history of the generations that these companies have created. I believe that with this matter, although it will then be too late, we must all be aware of this today and here, we will get a very quick principled opinion from the Kosovo Anti-Corruption Commission, those to whom some, of course, do not give results, you will be reading all alive, why I did not, I said at the outset, because you want to terminate it at the same time, and the Commission has to implement three quarters of its work, or the activities, energy, in order to make it possible to have a principled opinion, I say, number, but I think that now it must be 188, that it will be found that, of course, the transactions are in connection with the purchase, but I will say, well, because all of what I'm talking about, at the amount of 230,000 euros later, and I will be clear again, but if this amount is found, 16 million euros, the word of defence of corruption, but then everyone will say again, we will not be in the middle of 2010 yet. So let's pick political points.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u99	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone else is present! Now what we have heard so far is more than obvious that this debate today will not be of any help to those who are trying to save the future of the Ruša Nitrogen Factory and the future of the employees working in that area. At the beginning of this debate, however, it would be good to compare the opposition's positions - LDS, SD, they were most strongly represented, and I think that this new part of the LDS changed in Zares, with regard to this sale and the sale of the Slovenian steel industry. In this regard, too, we listened to great words and interestingly, both of them were wrong. From the opposition’s point of view, everything that the government does is wrong. When we talked about the sale of the Slovenian steel industry, the main observation was that after the sale, the company successfully operates to ensure that the employees have an appropriate standard. What we did sell this company to, but when it's sold in a couple of years, it's going to pay that purchase the new buyer paid. Of course, it was neglected that in addition to the purchase he had pledged to invest 300 million euros, in the next few years I do not know how many years that international "tender" had been chosen as the best offer and so on. But anyway, the company is successful, it provides an appropriate standard for employees and enables normal functioning in the environment of which part it is. In this case, when the company is in difficulty after the sale, when it is a loss, now that everyone is struggling with how, despite having nothing formal to do with it since the company is sold, it is wrong to help the employees keep their jobs. It's wrong again because the loss is due to some money leaking into some accounts. It doesn't say at which time, never, and so on. I think the motive in these cases is perfectly clear and simple: it is necessary to show how uneconomic this government or this authority is when it comes to the sale of state property. Despite the fact that during this period, I think that in 2005, yes, in 2005, the adopted strategy for the sale of state property, which has precisely laid down the rules of the game and divided this state property into three drawers, if I make it simpler, and for each of them to determine how and by what procedure these shares will be sold and what will be the purchaser of this property. And the last one is those companies that are strategically the most important to the country. We did not talk about any national interest, as in the past, but let us see what, after this so-called national interest in the sale of state property in the past and also in this period. Remember, today was mentioned as a general voyage. It's not a matter of general navigation, it's Banka Koper. Through Banka Koper, this company was "sanctioned", but the one in between got sucked through the sale of Banka Koper. The taxpayers we "received" it, honey, that delicious part, but it went into the pockets of a few companies that are now private. And the bank is owned by the Italian majority, which is a question for 10 or 50 years ahead. There was no way, as we had the opportunity in this mandate, to buy shares of New KBM, where there was also a lot of talk about selling them to people because their value had grown. Now, six months after things have changed, we're not talking about this story anymore. We had a national interest in drinking beer. Remember how much talk there was about Slovenian brewery in the national interest, and just now, after so many years, we see what was behind the so-called national interest. In this mandate, however, the most typical transfer of our largest insurance company Triglav, when there was a talk that we should not sell family silver. We can't sell family silver, even though it was a proposal to sell it to people in the same model as the New Maribor Credit Bank and to finally get this silver where it belongs - in the closets of our people. But no. At this point, even a referendum was forced. By the way, this one, now it's illegal for the provinces, and this one was perfectly legitimate because it was proposed by your side. People were manipulated because you told them they'd get Triglav's shares to get them, and under that pressure they voted as they were. What is the final result, ladies and gentlemen, in this term, this year, thank God that we have done so - we have adopted a law whereby the result is exactly the same as the smaller formal modifications proposed by the Government to go to the pension register. So I think we're going to get some more of these manipulations in this period. It is a mistake, of course, not to draw at least one part of this from these discussions, which could help solve specific problems. And what bothers me personally is that in any way between your heads in these matters, talking about non-transparent sales, we'd like to find one of our own, and we'd love to show it to you. Look, she's one of the SDS in the 100s. That's what's surprising about this debate. On this particular issue, which we are discussing today, it has been repeatedly said that as far as sales are concerned, nothing can be seen from this sale. It's been planned for a long time. We heard it was eight years ago. It was adopted in the Decree on the Programme for the Sale of State Finance and Real Property for 2004 and 2005, which was adopted by the National Assembly in the previous term in 2003, so that these proposals were adopted earlier and, on the basis of this guidance, a public call was issued in the newspaper Delo and in the international metallurgical bulletin, further motivated by individual potential domestic and foreign buyers who indicated interest in purchasing over the past years. Nine companies responded to this invitation to tender, one only made an offer. The negotiations continued, and a contract was concluded where quite a few elements were identified, which are much more important than the purchase itself. For when it comes to a company which has a major liability, which has a problem in the area of the market and which still has a problem with the environment, which is a very, very big problem, which has to be taken into account in the last period, because the financial obligations under this heading in particular for such production can be very large, a contract was concluded in which all these obligations were accepted. Thus, guarantees amounting to more than EUR 5 million were given, and all company obligations, liabilities to employees, were assumed. The buyer has undertaken to maintain the production programme by gradually reducing the production of carbide and developing new energy less demanding products in order to ensure the employment of at least 275 employees and an additional 66 in a disabled company, and in this regard has also made a commitment to certain financial sanctions which the State has, of course, also subsequently implemented. The obligation was also to report each year by 31 March 2010 together with the audit report and so on. That's what I think was a procedure that couldn't be read. Nothing to read. How should those who made this sale know how the commission that led it would be able to do so in the future, how and how the future buyer would operate. This is an economic company operating on the market. It is subject to such or other influences of the environment in which it operates and, of course, must respond appropriately to these impacts. And when problems arose, this company also responded by proposing that the commercially unnecessary assets be sold, which it also obtained from the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, with the express requirement that everyone should be respected by the contract. The agreement was probably also given because the problems that had been put in place to bridge and to fulfil what was most important, obligations were actually rectified and further production and obligations regarding the number of employees were made available. So when the company got in trouble, Holding the Slovenian Power Plant was not carefree, but it was trying to help in some way to bridge these problems. Of course, this was not his primary function. Also, how would a company know what is going on with a company that is no longer in its ownership "portfolio", for which it has no management and other entitlements. The difficulties were likely indicated at the time when the problems with paying the bills began, in particular by paying the electricity bills. The procedure continued until a forced settlement, or as we hear it, there was a bankruptcy that could occur. When the proposer talks about it, the company was bought for a small value, then something sold. From that purchase that went unknowingly, something was going on. I said earlier, the commitments that were taken were very high, almost €6 million. This company has also been, we have heard, strongly donated by the state in the past. These things changed after the company sold out. And I think it is the responsibility of the company's business, but in this case it is the one who took over or led the company, but in no case can this responsibility for bad business be imposed on the Holding of the Slovenian power plant or even Slovenia. Even less, I think that the Ministry of the Economy is involved in the story, because after the sale process was publicly and transparently completed and when the Slovenian Power Plant Holding performed everything that was bound by this contract and demanded guarantees for what was not carried out, I think that this obligation was fulfilled. Nevertheless, I think that the procedures described show that both the State and Holding of the Slovenian Power Plants have worked, as well as others, as we have heard today, also the mayor in the area of which this company is located, in order to maximize the interests of both employees and the interests of taxpayers or of the State. And when this new owner got into trouble, Holding the Slovenian Power Plants did everything to make the consequences for the employees as little as possible. For these reasons, I believe that Mr Germić, the panellist's remarks, are unfounded and that they are shooting in the wrong direction. I think that this issue is about finding answers, how and how to help resolve the situation in this case, and how and how to put in place mechanisms to ensure that future sales, regardless of the fact that we are in an open market, occur as often as possible. Unfortunately, we will never be able to prevent them. For the market is open, and the laws in it are clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u101	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! True, there are many things wrong, but I think the world is wrong when we talk about these things, now for fourteen days in this hall. The purpose is good, the contract is good, even in the contract all things are well written, elaborate, but the realization is not good. If this is not the problem of the world and I hear it from the mouth of the government representative or the country that sold this company as the previous owner, then something is not only wrong, but the world is wrong. That is why I will also allow myself, and I will start a little differently than I intended to in the previous debate, and I will start like this. It is true and it is bloody true that the current government has thoroughly revised economic and criminal legislation from 2004 to 2008. It is true that the National Assembly, on its proposal, adopted a new law on companies, a new law on acquisitions, which has also been amended, a new law on the market in financial instruments, we are also amending it now, a new bankruptcy law or the Law on the Financial Restructuring of Enterprises, a recast of criminal, procedural and criminal legislation. It is even more true that the Government, with all these new regulations, has neither declared nor criminalised the actions that the government coalition is currently politically persecuting just before the autumn elections. I'll call it different, but I'll use your term, tachyconization. It's not just about tycoons, it's about tycoons, and today we have a school lesson on tycoons in this particular case. By all means, the current policy and executive power are pressing law enforcement and judicial authorities to punish the tycoons. By failing to define, in either of the thousands of new rules of corporate and criminal law, whether or not to incriminate those same tycoons as he calls them. This is an outrageous political maneuver that not only cheats on the public but exerts political pressure on other branches of government and subjugates them. And what has this government not done under all these hundreds of regulations? It did not prohibit, I will count only three things, it did not prohibit, except for criminal offences, the outflow of Slovenian capital abroad through straw companies established by Slovenian transit richs in the Cayman Islands, Luxembourg, Liechtenstein, Switzerland, the Netherlands and so on. From where then, as foreigners, Slovenian companies generally buy from politically controlled funds. Another time. It did not prohibit, even though it had defined as a criminal offence, nor did it carry out any criminal or judicial proceedings against wild privatisation carried out through bypasses by managers and family companies, which first, by carrying out a competitive activity, remove personnel, the market and technology. And the third did not prohibit anything but criminalize it, nor did it carry out a single conviction against wild privatisation, where politically "extended" managers have drained the company, sent it to bankruptcy, fired the workers, and transferred the profitable activity to all parallel companies owned by them. And these cases have been happening intensively in recent years in front of our eyes, and one such case now in the direction of the state and the state-owned Holding of Slovenian Power Plants is also Russian Metalurgy. The dismissal of 200 employees in Ruša is planned as a result of the fact that the chosen political botts, the entrepreneur, had to fly for their services to pay such a price to bring them to bankruptcy. While the political sellers of Ruš would reject the strategic partner Ferro Atlantica, it was not listed today among those foreign companies that offered five times as much for the company. The owners of TDR-Mmetallurgy, later on I will give you this contract and this correspondence with the Minister and HSE, who has been running, I have documents here, I may read you a sentence from this; the owners of TRD-Metallurgy had the opportunity to possibly restructure when the factory was twice in the process of forcing settlement. This does not apply only to this government, to be understood, but to the previous government and previous owners who have done so on behalf of the State. However, they did not choose to do so, but Holding the Slovenska Power Plant decided to buy a cow which resulted in the bankruptcy of the company. It's a fact, that's a fact. Experts in the situation in Ruša believe that if the fall of Metallurgy has not been agreed upon, at least it has been foreseen for some time. However, the bankruptcy benefits all except, as everyone in front of me today found out, are those who have received nothing from this bankruptcy so far and, of course, these same workers today may be bitterly offended because they chose the fate of the factory behind their backs, behind their backs and, of course, played them in this way. And there's nothing, it's a fact, it's the truth, and that's how things happened. Of course, the owners are the most responsible. In the first place it is Holding Slovenian Power Plants, Government and Ministry of Economy, and finally also the buyer, this is the Director of Tajnko, who did all of this and paid himself very well. In addition, Holding the Slovenian Power Plants will benefit only from the bankruptcy of TDR-Metallurgy, as it will be possible to sell electricity that it supplied to Metallurgy at lower contractual prices in the open market. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as has already been said in the Decree on the disposal of state, financial and real property for 2004 and 2005, has also defined the previous government's proposal to sell shares in the company TRD-Metallurgy, which were directly owned by the Slovenian Power Plant Holding. An invitation to tender was issued in February 2006. 9 companies, 6 domestic companies and 3 foreign companies responded to the invitation to tender. The Commission found that only one bidder was interested in purchasing a binding tender within the tendering period. And this was, as already mentioned several times today, the W&P Profile of Solarvalue holding, which was established to purchase TDR-Metallurgy shares. The majority owner of this company was W&P Profile, the sole shareholder of which was Director, Director of the company was Aloise Cajnko and the minority company was established in Berlin in 2004. The question here is why of the 9 potential stakeholders, only one bidder showed interest. The reason, you will not believe, lies also in the following fact, which is verifiable and can be sure of those who have participated. The documentation was not available until 10 days after the invitation to tender. In the beginning, only one copy of the documentation was available. The first person to have access to the documentation was Mr. Tajko. Following a protest by other potential buyers, the Director then decided to prepare other copies of the documentation. This former director is now employed in one of Mr Cajnka's companies or in a joint venture, this can be checked online. Interested persons had only 5 days of time available to review the documentation, which for such an undertaking, if you do not have any other "insider" information, was significantly insufficient, since the contracts had to be reviewed together with the legal service. And this is especially difficult for foreigners, for they also needed an interpreter or interpreter and so on. At the same time, only three persons could review this documentation at the same time. These were the conditions that allowed these 9 potential bidders to create a situation or a view of whether they would go to "tender". Well, and in such privileged conditions and conditions only for some, the State Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant in 2006 at a ridiculously low price, for a little over EUR 200 000, sold to Aloise Tajnka, who brought the company to bankruptcy after a good year. However, it is necessary to add, despite the fact that he had on the table the offer of a multinational – FerroAtlantica Group – for at least a million euros, with the willingness to include the TDR in the system and to invest it with an obligation not to forgive any worker. I have here evidence of correspondence between the HSE and the FerroAtlantica Group, as well as between the Ministry or Minister of Vision. I can read something from this, but it's available here. Can I? On 18 April 2006, they wrote a letter on the intention of the offer, "Please accept the letter of intent", and I will not start with this, "the Ferro Atlantica Group is eager to act as a company that integrates all companies in our industrial field. In particular, we would like to emphasise, and this is also publicly known, that FerroAtlantica has a policy in the event of taking over the sister society as the main objective of ensuring the healthy and rational future of the new member of our group. In the grave, our company Ferro Atlantica has the seat of electrometalry in Spain, France, Venezuela, South Africa and is also interested in various power plants and quarry mines. At the level of technology, environment, productivity and economy, as well as in research and development, Ferro Atlantica has reached its leading position in our industry in the world. We are prepared to make an offer that will follow the demand in the basic offer, will give detailed long-term "business plans" and so on and so on. Then, on July 3rd, there was a re-offer, which is addressed to you: "Dear gentlemen", I hope that things are as much because from French to English and from English to Slovenian, referring to a letter dated April 18th, we would like to confirm our intention to purchase the company mentioned above. We confirm the purpose of buying with the basic offer of one million euros. We repeat our proposal for an early meeting, if we reach agreement in principle, we will later ask for an in-depth study step by step and so on. At the same time, we remind you that we are ready to deliver an accurate long-term "business plan" and so on. That's what she's saying. She thought it was a solution if it was done, even for me, not so bad an offer if we went into it. So here's a very relevant question. Whether such a sale resulted in obvious damage to State property or for the purpose of exploiting it. I believe that the police and other authorities in this case should not hold hands, but should act and check matters. Although it's not a big tycoon story, it's a small one, but I think like you promised, now in this conversation about the tycoons, I expect this to happen in this case, too, and things will clear up that no one will notice that we're talking about it. And why could such things happen for other reasons? In view of the fact that the sales conditions in the tender documentation were clear and clear that new programmes were to be brought in, so that no employees could be dismissed in order to carry out the pre-sales-based development programme provided for by HSE covered by 12 projects. Each individual project was provided with value, content, and timeliness. I have them here, and you have them in your contract, and I wouldn't read them. But, yes, everyone is content, price and date-bound as well. Most of these projects are expected to be completed by the end of 2008, so it would be another half year. Today, we can assess that under no condition has the invitation to tender and no record in the sales contract been fulfilled. Unfulfilled. It was not achieved because it was very binding, i.e. the basic criteria for the evaluation of the tender referred to in point 8 of the invitation to tender are the level of the purchase, the manner and time of payment of the purchase plans of investments and the source of funding, the preservation of the increased number of jobs and the expansion of the sales market, and the increase in production as well as the rating of the tenderer. And what was the rating of the bidder, Mr Cajk, it turned out that he had to place TDR shares, that he even got a loan to pay the minimum purchase, that is, 200,000 euros. Of course, without any reference to market expansion and to increase production. Therefore, TDR-Metallurgy, the so-called target company, acquired a loan for the purchase of a company from Holdinga Slovenske Power Plant. In this case, it was not an unknown mailbox, in which case it was a post office which is somewhere near the government headquarters and close to the headquarters of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding and has a known address. The contract between HSE and TDR prohibits the flag of TDR shares to obtain bank guarantees. In spite of that, Kanjko made a bid against the contract. And don't say again that none of this knew that it was hidden and unknown. Not only that, the contract was almost entirely breached, since Canjko was only a month after the contract was signed, a contract with HSE was requested in 2007 and also agreed to sell off the plant [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] As unnecessary assets, it is not defined how the guarantee for the envisaged project amounts to EUR 612,000 and the three for the casting machine and the fragmentation, planting facilities and so on. [[..]] Does this bond remain on TDR-Metallurgy or is it cancelled? Today we have heard from Mayor Rush that he remains in TDR-Metallurgy. We hope this is true and that the workers will really have something of it. It is said that Kanjko received 3.5 million purchases, which is 14 times more than he gave for the whole company. A few months later, he also sold the carbide plant, and here he also had the consent of HSE, and the purchases were for EUR 5 million, i.e. 25 times the sum of the purchases for the whole company and so on. Thus, the entire contract provided for - a contract signed by HSE and 100% owned by HSE is the State of the Republic of Slovenia and, on behalf of the State, the Government, as the executive authority and so on - the retention of the total production volume, the modernisation of investments in individual segments, the introduction of additional programmes, the failure of workers; the buyer also pledged to have at least 275 workers in the company continuously employed for an indefinite period of full-time working time by the end of 2008. The buyer also committed to making investments of EUR 5,427,000 by the end of 2008. The buyer had to inform the HSE seller in writing by 31 March each year for the previous year, all of which should be done by 2010, of the fulfilment of the obligations set out in the contract with a detailed written report. At the request of the seller, i.e. HSE, which is 100% owned by the country, also provide all relevant evidence of the realisation of the business plan of investments, job retention and so on. And look, in December 2007, this is six months ago, this government and this Ministry of Economy wrote in response to a fellow Member of the German family: "The profile of Solarvalue shows that the company is carrying out restructuring procedures and respects the limitations explicitly required under the given accords." Signature, Andrej Vizjak. It is said that everything was fine six months ago, and a few months after that finding - bankruptcy of the company, 200 workers on the road and so on. And the conclusion that the intentions were good, only the realization was catastrophic. The owner, who succeeded, received a concession from the State to build a home for the elderly. So, after the successful decline of investment in TDR, he invests in a new state project that this country trusts him again, two homes for the elderly. That no one will misinterpret me that I'm against these homes being built! But of course I didn't agree that this way you get concessions and that this is how these homes are built. The extent to which these investments are related to the TDR will or should already be determined by the competent authorities. So he failed to fulfil the contractual obligations, failed to make the agreed investments, not by dynamics or by content. He received a few million euros for his non-profit assets and instead of staying in the company for unnecessary assets, as you claim, he lent some of the funds to his companies, both in Slovenia and in Serbia. Perhaps from Serbia and from this company others in Slovenia settled TDR accounts. This is also possible, but it should be determined by the competent authorities. And the seller must have known of it, for without his consent he could do nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u102	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. He was the first to report to the minister. Mr. Visjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Otherwise, a number of questions have already been answered in this discussion, but whatever. First, Mr Germič spoke of mysterious appreciation, appreciation and so on. Appreciation is no secret, appreciation is available here, Mr Germič, we have four hours left and 10 minutes left for this debate. It's available here. Check it out. There's no problem. So that's not a secret. But I tell you, as I have already said, society is worth between €0 and €124 million at the time, and so on. So if we melt this into euros, that's, say, 4.5 million euros there. So from 0 to 4.5 million euros. There's appreciation. Look at her. It's no secret. And, of course, the sales price was determined in particular in the light of the other conditions. Why can the value be 0 or a good 4 million euros? This is because it depends on how much the customer assumes of this company's obligations, how much the liability both to creditors and to workers, as well as to investment and the like. If anyone thinks the matter is incorrect, they can challenge it anyway. This is an official document signed by not one member of the opposition, but by sworn judges, and I believe them. Another time. When the Commission concluded its election, it concluded it on the basis of full and timely offers, with the announcement procedures being essential before that. And to say that someone didn't have time to make an offer, of course, I didn't know that we actually have lobbyists here for other companies, who also know other offers - okay, I don't mind it, but all of them were subject to the same conditions. All were subject to the same conditions. I have not done so, and in accordance with the law on public finances and the regulation, a special expert committee has been set up, consisting of different people and, in this case, properly conducted. As far as representatives of the Ministry of Economy are concerned, there were no party people here, lawyers from the Energy Directorate who had already conducted similar procedures during the previous governments. And because of some, we have the obvious, you know, how to do that. I believe they're doing the right thing, I believe they're doing the right thing, and there was no evidence in the opposite direction. So, this respected reporter, "sphere" or whatever, had exactly the same opportunities to apply, but did not submit a timely and complete offer. Again, gentlemen. Of course, this factory isn't just any factory. In fact, every customer who volunteered with the seller had one question, a key important question: How do I get long-term electricity? Because in the structure of the cost of the product of this factory is 35% of the price of electricity. And that was the key to every salesman. And even today, when the gentlemen mentioned by Mr Rezman spoke to me, it was only this question: At what price will we receive electricity? Slovenia has long since renounced cross-subsidisation and some hidden state aid to any undertaking in the form of a dumped electricity price. And that's the main problem with this whole story. Ladies and gentlemen, and here to talk now about, I don't know, some hidden owners, even one MEP here has allowed himself to speculate, I don't know that Holding Drava power plants and even the Ministry of Economy is some straw buyer; I mean, excuse me, I would expect at least one minimum argument from such eloquent words to prove it. That, to put it mildly, is insulting to society and, of course, to me personally. I don't know, it probably reflects the approach, including the thinking of the same Member. That is probably how he does it and, of course, he makes it clear to others that they do it. Otherwise, I'm sorry, I can't explain. These are some thought patterns that this Member is likely to cultivate in his head and then pass them on to others. That kind of thing is incorrect, but it's backed up with any elements. And one thing, actually, going into some business projects today is not a privilege, it's just a garage job, a risk and a burden. I don't know if anyone thinks buying such a difficult production, such a risky business as this particular project is wrong. And here, in fact, it was very well explained by Member Rezman where the purchase went from this valueless property sold. Here I have a statement of the structure of consumption and it speaks exactly the same as he said: it was about paying for the repromaterial, it was about paying for the energy and it was about paying off the loans that were unpaid. Nobody pulled anything here. And look, gentlemen, then there was an audit, not a political verdict, a KPMG audit, an audit house. And the conclusion of this audit through, in fact, the complete documentation is that there has been no exploitation on either side. That's the conclusion. I believe you're not interested, you're interested in political lynching and you're doing it and you have every right to do it. And it is not a problem to lose words, you have the right here to malign, condemn and do so, but respected, this is not a reflection of the truth, it is not confirmed by any expert analysis and audit that has been carried out on this subject; this is not confirmed by the audit that was carried out by KPMG. Why the audit was subsequently carried out - since the buyer has to report to the seller on the fulfilment of the conditions by mid-March of the current year and has also done so, so the audit took place around the end of March, and one month later bankruptcy took place. And that's why these findings are still important to see if there's any background, if there's any abuse, and so on. The audit does not confirm this; the audit confirms that the buyer has assumed a huge liability with the company, which he has also paid by selling off unnecessary assets. Here we have heard even the diametric positions; the question of where the truth is, whether it was sold enough or it would be good to sell it even more so that it could trigger that vital part that was actually its basis for further work. And once again, the review showed that no one took advantage of it, I think even the opposite, the many night of the new buyer was not overslept on this topic. However, there is also a harsh rejection of any kind of concern, as I would say, for employees who have lost their jobs. As I mentioned in the introduction, a proposal has been sent to the bankruptcy manager, you know that drawing on or using the bankruptcy weight to pay off creditors is regulated that there is no possible arbitration, who sooner or later, and that if, of course, part of the guarantees went bankrupt, there would be a question of where they would have landed. Probably not in the hands we want. That is why there is a proposal here to get these discharges for people, and I also promise you that we will do everything within the framework of the law, that workers will also be granted a discharge at the time of their loss of employment. Once again, this production is energy-intensive, in fact, based on the price of electricity. The all-consumer who came and wanted to talk about buying this was basically his question at what cost the state would provide me with electricity. These questions would not be questions if energy were privatised in Slovenia, but this would be purely commercial relations and these discussions would not be at all, because any buyer would know what is ahead and that he could get an offer and what kind of offer he could get. And it is more than clear, once again, that every year before this government's mandate and in this government's mandate, electricity prices were up to €4 million per year. About as much as she paid. Over the dumped electricity price, over the subsidised electricity price, the country has brought around €4 million of subsidies to the company, and just as much, I have already said once, as the annual wage is about. So ask yourself, is it an economic project or is it a social project? With all due respect to the metallurgies who work in this factory, they have worked hard, and all this situation, which is now being done here, is actually abusing them personally. Once again, we will do everything for them to complete the matter correctly, in accordance with Slovenian legislation. And that's on the way.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr. Germich, please, as a motioner. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would have answered those things first, but I won't have to answer a lot that flew personally on my account. You need to know that I live in a municipality where I'm used to it by my fellow mayor, because that's just the way it's discussed with us. I'm not going back the same way, because I don't think it's worth it; in this house. We could have had a lot of debate about who's telling the truth or not, but I don't think that's a problem today. But I've been used to these discredits in years by the same person who said it here today. After the performances that have been here and given who has any information, I also see who was very strongly involved in this sale. I regret that I did not have all this information, and I also see that some are classified or confidential. I also regret that Mr Minister, from November to today, did not have the will, desire and energy to give me this appreciation. Why today? And you're telling me to study the material now in these brief moments, for which some professional institute had to put in a lot of work. But I'll be happy to read it. For the people who were employed there tell us very precisely how much supplies, raw materials, transitional materials and products were. I really want to know what's going to say about this in these reports. Because that's how you understand all this stuff, fast, but you can't. I've been asking you about these things since last November. And you know, if you were to answer me properly and if you were to stand up personally for these solutions to be different, there would be no such debate today. I repeat my questions, Mr. Minister. Today we have heard that there were around 8 million euros in purchases. So, real-time shopping. I ask you: What was the difference in the decision of Holding? This is a very important question. What is the difference in Holding's decision to give consent for the first time - to sell the production plant, the production plant, the special alloys, these are alloys. What's the idea of consent to sell carbide? Two production parts of this company, to which there is certainly a series of business decisions in the business plan. I'm pretty sure I worked at this plant. I worked at the TDR-Metallurgy plant. I was a fellow at this facility. These are vital parts along M5 and M6 seals for the production of ferrosilithium and calcium - silicon. And when Holding agrees to sell off this property, it is not interesting that Holding does not agree to sell off the following unnecessary business assets: garage and workshops, halls, administrative buildings, inn, laboratories and other properties. Isn't that interesting?Oh, my God! Vital parts that are tied up, I'm sure I don't know him. You told me that I can't see the purchase-sale contract because you have to give consent to HSE, and to the buyer. You have not made any effort to make an effort to convince the buyer and HSE that this contract could be reached. But the value of this property, at least that's how it was able to hear it again in the media, is another 8 million euros. We are talking about the next 8 million euros. And when we add this up, this number is summed up by what my colleague Peca was talking about. But since this valuation has been done, I'm sure you'll be quoting me now, let's say, what was the stake in the property was the sale of carbide. How much in the entire asset valuation represents, say, a carbide turnover. I'm sure you'll shake that off my sleeve. I'm sure you'll tell me exactly how much they were represented in TDR Metallurgy following this appreciation of Legura. Because if this appreciation was done by a serious house, then these data definitely exist. And you will tell me exactly how much appreciation there are for other vital parts. And I ask you if you've given consent, so Holding has agreed to sell these vital parts, why Holding - please answer this to me - why Holding has not corrected what I think is a key work for which Mr. Tajko is in trouble, that is my personal opinion. Because it's not logical to sell these vital parts, not correct the business plan, not correct the investment work. Yes, because, look, you represent 100% of this company, you have, I don't know, gentlemen who are directly on the information, from Holding, and you can explain that. Because if you don't change it, because I want to know how much investment is tied to M1's kiln, so to speak, to calcium carbide, and how much investment and business plan is connected to the production of the alloy. Because if this is not harmonised, then it makes sense for the owner to get in trouble, given that he's selling out this vital part. At the same time, it has been said today that all other obligations remain the same. It doesn't work together. Minister Visjak, this is not going together! If you sell your bikes and bikes out of the car, you'll be driving badly. And they can't be the same liability for the buyer as they were before this sale took place. And of course then it becomes illogical, and here too is my statement to the state that it is acting improperly, that it does not give consent to the resale of real estate, which does not have much substance on investments. I'd like you to explain the following to me here. The representative of Holding at a meeting held in early April in Ruša said, given that TDR had already sold more than €7 million of real estate in 2007 and that HSE had already returned EUR 1.28 million of bank guarantees, "we were surprised by the proposal for an enforcement settlement". How is it possible that Holding, which is responsible for all the monitoring that has been or has not given consent, is surprised at what is happening in this company? How? How did the custodian monitor these things? And when we talk today about nothing happening in these matters, it says, according to words, at least that was possible to understand from the media, they say in HSE, led by Jože Zagozen, that "the treaty prohibits the flag of TDR shares in the bank guarantee. Nevertheless, Tajko pawned the shares against the contract." That's what it says, and it wasn't demented. At the same time, it also writes the fact that it came between different companies, because you know that Mr Tajnko is the owner of a type of business, not just one that has previously worked with TDR Metallurgy and is currently involved in business. Because in the media it was observed that there was an issue of loans from TDT Metallurgy to the same owner, i.e. another company. So, can you make sure that there was no such business today? I want it, yes or no! You have all the data, you haven't mentioned it - was it or not? Did TDR Metalurgy lend to other companies of the same owner? Because the fact that Holding is talking about is that it's surprised at the fact of the forced settlement - given how much purchases were made and how much guarantees were released. And now I'm going back to appreciation. If the value of immovable property, the unnecessary business property that would go into sale, is estimated at EUR 8 million, how do you explain the argument that you have written in my reply, Mr Vizjak? The owner, i.e. the state, via Holding, was not interested in selling TDR Metallurgy in pieces, because there was no bankruptcy, and then Holding did everything to ensure that individual business parts were sold out. In what and what has changed that view? You didn't want to sell in pieces, but you let the new owner sell in pieces. What happened in the middle? What were the elements in which you were taught that you had to change that? Because here's the argument that comes in a relationship either a good or a bad master of the country that did this transaction. For, of course, these arguments were not heard today. And I would ask that we get answers to these specific questions, which are essential, so that the company does not have to be put into bankruptcy. And electricity! Electricity, as far as you've been responding to me, has been contractually fixed for a period of five years for certain quantities. And you write yourself, the annex has been adopted under certain pressures. How do you answer that you were cornered? Why were you cornered to accept this annex? And what was the cost of this pressure to accept this annex? These are the questions "why," because I'm just trying to figure out if there's anything else that could be done, what's better if this company wasn't bankrupt today. What I'm saying is that I don't want to produce the idea that a scenario could have been implemented for such a course. I would just ask you to answer these questions that are not logical - so the questions are logical, but the answers to these questions require really deep content, given what you have already answered me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Janc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! I hope that today's debate here in Parliament will not be an account between two fellow Members from Russia, colleagues from Germany and colleagues from Rezman, how and who has more or less credit for these people and for this company in Ruša. I propose that after this meeting you go together for coffee, find a common way, solutions, help from this point of view of you - to the owner, to the former, to the old owner, to the environment and to the congregation, and you may find some common solution and for the success of this society, and not least for your success in these elections. I regret these events that happened in this nitrogen factory. So many jobs, as has already been said, for no municipality is coughing, this is certainly a test - and it must also be tried to understand the sales contract of this company, the holding company which sold it and probably sold it because the government made a proposal, the National Assembly adopted this decision, we verified it and thus charged the Slovenian Power Plants Holding to sell it. Obviously, it is not part of the strategy for the development of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants, and it was obviously a company that was not compatible with a company that is owned by the Slovenian State. That's what happened, just like it happened. They were looking for the best bidder, unfortunately, there was no crowd in line for this purchase. A company that formally met the conditions appeared, after my assessment of a rather demanding binding contract, with guarantees and everything else, and here more or less of the Ministry's story, Holdinga thus ended. Unfortunately, in this House too, I feel that both the coalition and the majority of the opposition are somehow staring at each other and wants the country to gradually withdraw from the economy. This is what we are saying, and one example is certainly the case when this company is supposed to withdraw from Holding, which is majority owned by the State, and go into the hands of a private person. Unfortunately, the story was not as successful as we hear today about this case as it was that the new buyer, as I said before, obviously did not imagine that all the contractual arrangements would have to be fulfilled. I can trust, I hope there were no special speculations, but if they were, you'll tell me the others who know it better. Apparently, this new owner somehow "increased" this society, and in some ways now we blame the government, the minister, that he's "increased" it. I don't think it's entirely his fault. Last time, Minister Vizjak didn't sell this company, but he sold Holding, which is really state-owned. But Holding was the company that sold this company to a buyer on a public invitation to tender. I have not heard any specific complaints about the tender procedure that it was not transparent, legal and so on. That he was okay. That's okay. The bigger problem now is that this new owner of the company has not met expectations, both to the company, to the employees, to the investment programmes in production and so on, and that it has obviously broken down here so badly that it is even a bankruptcy of this company. And that certainly hurts, in my opinion, most or all of the MPs in the National Assembly, especially the mayor and the MP from that environment, where there were 150 employees yesterday, and once there were 2,000 people, and today this is a pure zero, some kind of a mountain that will go its way in the bankruptcy process. But we know how it usually ends or ends. The price was low that, this was explained by the Minister, it was not high, and this was obviously too high for some buyers who were potentially potentially potentially potentially interested in this company. But they were obligations, obviously, relatively very high. And here I would even say that Holding, as the owner of the company, well negotiated with this new buyer in terms of its commitment to this company. And apparently these obligations were even too high - according to my logic, you will correct me, colleague Germič -, too high for this new buyer who has put too much burden on himself and simply failed them. If I consider any speculation that some have implied. Today, in this national assembly, there have been many hard words to say that this is the case. That's gonna have to be explained. And it is right to explain whether these speculations hold, whether there are any arguments for this, any written evidence or similar case, if so. Whether he is a new buyer, this Mr. Tajnko, mentioned by you - I have never heard of him or seen him before, I do not know him, but probably he is known by his colleague Rezman very well - with whatever he has made rich or even earned, and then it would be right to talk here seriously about any commission; I don't know, one or another, to examine things, whether he is at the expense of this and the one who put the company in bankruptcy, but he has become rich. Of course, I condemn that with all possible arguments - if that is the case. If it isn't, then they're just clues, they're different, and they're not justified. You know, after the battle, we're more or less all generals. What if it was what it was supposed to be, and it wasn't. I don't think this is the only case where someone sold the company, but unfortunately the new owner has clearly found that this is not going to work, and the case has gone in a negative direction. Of course, this can be understood as a natural process of the market economy, but it can also be speculation, and this possibility exists that this has happened - a web of some such circumstances that can be agreed on in one way or another. But I'll think of it; it's not like that. But you will certainly say more about those who are here today. I think I have heard a lot of hard words today at the expense of this sale by some Members, from some of the parliamentary groups of positions that have been forwarded. Those words were, in my opinion, quite severe, and they were said on the account of Holding in particular, at the expense of the State, the Government, the Minister and so on. And I think that it is necessary to answer these questions if we are to come as credible as possible from this meeting, also Members who are making a statement in a public place, and we are probably not just talking about it and talking about it, but we are also talking about it in our own words. I hope so! And I hope those of you who said that here are saying that in the National Assembly. But it is true that we all say what was, what was not, and no one has asked so far what the solutions to this story are, but how can we help the bankruptcy manager, Holding, the buyer who crashed the company, and the environment to bring this thing out, and also to the government. However, I have not yet heard these solutions, and I hope that someone will tell you in the discussion below how the optimal solutions can be derived from this, that these 150 people, this property, and so on, will not remain where it is. And at the end of the day, I'll give my fellow Members some time, but don't mind me. My fellow Member, Mayor Ruš, colleague Willi Rezman, seems to know a great deal about this. As mayor, I believe that he has participated in many meetings, such and different, and probably that this story in being very well known, probably best here in the National Assembly among all of us here. But I have a feeling - let me apologize if I'm awkward - but I think that maybe a little fellow Germich has succeeded perhaps - because today he has been praised so many times in the National Assembly - some incredible conversion that he has succeeded this general debate, like some jealousy between the two of you, that he has succeeded and that he can propose this matter in the National Assembly and that then the general debate takes place and that there is something more to be said and heard about this story. I say again, you two have to sit together, pour yourself some clean wine, go get some coffee, and figure out how to save the company that's being transported. Perhaps your help together can be of great help. And finally, who will give success to someone is the ultimate success that will be the result of both of you today in the National Assembly, and not least in your election today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr. Germich, as your proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I would like to thank my colleague Janc for these offers and proposals. I don't have a problem having coffee with anyone, but I think the content we're talking about today is hard to find with coffee solutions. I think it's important that we hold this debate here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u110	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with a fellow Member, honourable Members and Member of Parliament! I am pleased to discuss the response of Minister Visiak to the question raised, especially because, despite being a Member, I also consider myself to be a large number of those who do not have enough information to be left without questions in this case, and especially because economic issues are not interesting because of the economy itself, but because of the social effects they produce. And that is why my colleague Kumro and I have been in Selnica near Drava, as well as in Ruša, when people from those places have warned us of the hardships or dangers they face. Last but not least, I was reminded of what is happening in these places by a highly respected Russian educator, and I do not consider her to be a number of politicians or those who would like to dictate to the government, any one. That is why I consider the institution of asking questions from Members of Parliament for that right, which is also defined in the Rules of Procedure, and I do not understand Mr Minister, that he has changed so much the attitude towards questions sent since he himself was the leader of the Group of Members in this Parliament until he became Minister. What do I mean? The way in which we are dealing with opposition Members and Members in answering the questions raised is by going from ignoring to disrespecting, attacking and even insulting. I think that it should be taken into account that it is precisely within the scope of competence, but without false moralisation or teaching, that we Members and Members are therefore obliged to ask questions when there are problems in the environment, and there are not enough clear answers for them. And this is not solved by coffee and is not solved by any experimental reconciliation of two roosters. I see very serious problems in these matters, because it is not my constituency, and I also point out that I have received the same arrogant answer to the question from the Minister's side. And my fellow Member, the leader of New Slovenia, has reminded me that, in fact, you do not have any problems with the issues, because you can make quite a difference with the Minister and other representatives of the Government. Excuse me, this case has a name that fits the definition. You know, when you're an individual for yourself, for your neighbor or for some group, you get some kind of preferential treatment, it's by definition corruption. And Mr. Minister, when you taught me, on the question I asked you and Minister Bajuk about Paloma, what is your task and what is not your task, you used 29 lines to explain to me the things I know, then you answered this question: Are you familiar with the events in Paloma? You said, "With the events in Paloma, d.d. I am only aware of the media," on how you intend to act, and again you have explained to me that it must be clear from the previous that the company has owners, that it has a supervisory board and administration and that any interference by the Minister of Economy would constitute an interference in the management of the company and that the Minister of Economy is not competent. But this same Minister of Economy was responsible for managing things in Mura, it was previously confirmed and even said that you were talking about how you were going to handle things. You've been answering to others, and that's none of your business, and I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, why do we have an economy minister in this government? For in this case, I see an example from which I recognize the pattern of action for which this government predicts it will end. I don't know how she's going to end it if she just makes us for the ignorant, that we don't have enough information, but it's a basic process of draining the company, selling it at a low price, bankruptcy of the company, dismissal of the workers, they'll find themselves, as they will find out - and I'm just interested in you. And that explains to me what it's like to start a company, and how bad it is for the owners, but, excuse me, it's a little too bad! I don't have this business wire in me to go start a company, I don't force myself there, I don't resent or condemn anyone who has it and does it, but I feel sorry for it, and I don't. He already knows what he's doing, and he's gonna take that risk. But if there's some kind of exposure to this risk, then that's my concern. Because, Mr. Minister, you swore, at the time of taking over the ministerial office, that you would act in the best interests of all. You've signed an ethical code and what I'm reading is that those of you who ask questions are telling us how dare we even ask a question and we're withdrawing you from the important tasks you have. I think that what you are doing is underestimating the institute of questions sent, including underestimating us who are asked, and irresponsible to those who are existentially threatened.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u113	Thank you very much. It is true that when I made a statement in this House, I said that I would respect the rule of law of this country and the Constitution and also follow my own conscience for the benefit of all. And it is this legal order that tells me not to get involved in business, in the management of companies. I can't. As a result, companies are established and operate in accordance with the Company Act, where the powers and tasks of the administration, the Supervisory Board and the Assembly are delimited where owners exercise their interests. In the particular case of Paloma, which you mentioned, the Ministry of Economy is not in any of these three roles; there is no administration, neither the Supervisory Council nor neither a representative of the owner - there is! That is why I have informed you, Your Honor, only of this. Nowhere in my answer to your question of the mission is there any underestimating or instructing tone, which is what you wanted to interpret. So, why Mura? The wall was due to about 10 billion, if I recall correctly, state aid - or 10 million euros, sorry. It has received state aid for restructuring and has a contract signed with our ministry, which is the custodians of this contract, and this is why I do not care how they meet all these conditions, commitments and circumstances under this contract. And that's the difference and nothing else. And once again, in the ministry, I have met a number of companies, some who are looking ahead have development ambitions, development projects, others who have problems. We both have hearing and money for both of us. But, honourable Member, not by political dictatorship, but by proper professional treatment, and we do so also in the case of Paloma.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr. Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, two brief responses to Mr Janc's proposals. I will do differently from my fellow Member, and I publicly invite him to come to me for coffee as his mayor, as a colleague who has a Member's office, I will give him information so that he does not have to talk to him. Another time. I would also like to tell Mr Janz because he asked if there were any solutions. Today we talked about two solutions offered; one I propose, one I propose HSE and tomorrow morning we will not be here because we will discuss it. There are solutions, we're looking for them, only consensus will have to be found. I hope that we will find him in the end, because this will be good both for the production and for the workers and their severance. Next. Someone said, "I won't be name-calling again, "there's been no careful inspection." Six of them were careful checks, not to be misled. Someone said that 10,000 euro security was provided for one job for one month - this is not true at all, something else is completely different. Someone said there were no new programs. Silikocalcium is the only program that is still being produced, and this was completely new, but from the old it was only what was restructured and what had previously done five years of loss, and after restructuring - these are modulators ferrotated and similar things - for the first time started to make profits. Someone said that the treaty expressly prohibited the flag of shares. That is not true, it says the opposite, read to yourself, Mr Kumar, listen please, but take this into account, 9.8 point in the contract reads, "without the seller's prior written consent, they already continue to agree that the buyer will place shares in the bank's company to obtain bank guarantees" - unless we have each of our own contracts, but this is how it writes in this official contract. KPMG thanks Mr Minister for saying something about what I read in this review, and I must not talk about it, but in the review, I can now repeat it, it says that "the buyer has fulfilled contractual obligations". It says more! It even says that we should sell more unnecessary assets because it could save the company. But this is where the company was stopped because HSE did not give that consent. And in answer to the question: Why wasn't the company sold by works? Look, I'm Rushan and a worker in this factory once. Mr. Germich just as well. We know her about the same. And if the company were sold in pieces right now, then I ask myself: who would buy just the sewer, who would buy just the tram station, who would buy only the inn, who would buy only the railroad, who would buy only the roads, without buying even the company for which the infrastructure is. And if we sold in pieces, we wouldn't have infrastructure owners. And if we didn't have the infrastructure, we'd "drunk" the other companies that are connected to this infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr. Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, as a Member, I asked what was going on and what was going on in the privatisation of TDR Metallurgy officially, Mr Minister. I didn't get an answer. It's been more than six months, so I asked three questions. It appears that Mr Minister has less information than one of the Members here. Because Minister Vizjak did not invite me to come to him to look at this information and, of course, I would invite my colleague Rezman here to tell the public everything he knows, and we can go for coffee. But I don't think so. Maybe he imagines that the TDR problem is being solved with coffee. No, you don't! I imagine that we will talk about the data, the content of this problem here, only here, but we can talk about coffee; we can talk about these problems, how to; but we need to talk about reliable data here. And Mr Minister Vizjak did not offer me an opportunity when I asked him to maybe see, Mr Minister, the first question I asked you on 8 November 2007. [[...]] Today again in your style here you offer me that there is something on your table that you did not want to give me in these months. That's not right of you, I've never had such a relationship with you, to represent some things to you, by the way. That is why I would say: today is an opportunity to talk about this content, to put it in full light and to clear it. At the same time, Mr. Minister, I would ask: Will you answer those questions that I have asked you earlier and are very weighty, substantive to me, and would, of course, need answers as well? As for the sale: I wonder whether and how the infrastructure goes to the legurates, to the carbide and how the infrastructure is related to other facilities still under the TDR Metallurgy. I don't know about that, but there's definitely a piece sale going on. And that the M1 kiln was first sold for carbide to be sold first, then also the alloys, and then the garages, administrative buildings, catering facilities, laboratories and so on were sold. This is the infrastructure I'm talking about. And here there was no consensus, here was no concerted performance! And don't tell me today how it didn't work out, because there are problems here. I am talking about these facts as to how real sales have been and how this can work today. I'm saying that the problems and I'm still talking if the owner, i.e. Holding, were to examine exactly what the whole sale means or in part, the owner, i.e. Holding the Slovenian power plant, could drive this sale in a different way.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u118	Thank you. First, Mr. Rezman responded to the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Very short. I repeat the invitation to coffee. Not to save Metallurgy there, but to explain to Mr. Germich what the real data is so he wouldn't deceive the public. As for the rescue of Metallurgy, some of us saved it by being together with the workers, with the unions, with the representative of the Council of Workers, with the Holding, with the Minister, with the Secretary of State, with the new buyers and so on, but there was no spot for Mr Germić.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u120	Thank you. Mr. Scholch has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u121	Mr President of the National Assembly, I would like to ask you not to let people who are trying to debate the State Assembly's debate on the answer to the Minister's question be misled by both the National Assembly and the public by talking about these things that the National Assembly has decided to talk about here somewhere else, over coffee, beer or I don't know what. This is the total ignorance of us other Members who are listening. I'm interested, and I'm not going to drive to the mayor in Ruša to look at this data, nor will I, as Minister Vizjak as a dog suggested something there: here it is, grab it! The material which is given to the Members, if you think it is a Member, is given in the way you know it is reproduced. When asked by one Member, one Member, when this is the debate at the National Assembly, by the ninety Members. From this point of view, I protest, Mr President, against the fact that the mayor and our fellow Member and the Minister say they are not ready after the National Assembly has already decided that this is a matter for discussion, to talk about this so that they do not "as" wear out the public, because they will talk about some information elsewhere. That's unacceptable to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u122	Thank you. Here's freedom of speech. Do you have a replica? Here you go, Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u123	I'm not inviting Mr. Skull to Russia. I invite him to come here and let him look at the information I've already offered at the beginning, so that he doesn't have to think about the mistakes.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u124	Mr. Secretary has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u125	Thank you very much. One more time. When the State, or in this particular case holding company, withdrew from that investment, it withdrew on the basis of a valid business plan at that time. This business plan later changed with the owner, the new owner. He's changed because he's seen things run, business runs. In this case, therefore, the holding company did not change the business plan again as it was no longer its business plan and, with the agreement to sell off the assets, it claimed from the buyer all the guarantees, all the obligations it had assumed under the original contract. Thus, in the divestment of the carbide, he also agreed to ensure compliance with the contractual obligations after the investment. It was the owner of the guarantee or it was acceptable for him and it was one of the, as I would say, intermediate steps in the negotiations to get out of this matter. Once again, this ministry was not involved, the contractual partner was holding the holding and it was a matter of negotiating a new business plan between the specific buyer and the seller in terms of optimising this. Your Honor, running such a company is probably not a song, that's clear to everyone. And there was a search between possible and possible. And it was also done by the new owner, under all the obligations assumed by the seller in the previous contract. And I don't know, that's all, I can also tell you what kind of investments he took for the M1 oven at EUR 683,000 and for the oven 5, as you asked, at EUR 555 thousand. These were commitments made and do not give up. How he's gonna do it, that's his business. That is why we have bank guarantees that have not yet been cashed and will serve for the rehabilitation and, finally, for the future of this specific project.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr Hwauc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. And I would ask my colleagues here on the left to let me say what I want to say these few minutes. First of all, I'd like to remind you of what company we're talking about. Today it has already been mentioned here that in those days when this curve started to turn down, this company had about 2,300, 2,400 employees, that one set of these production programmes or parts of the company sold and that this purchase went not to revive or encourage, to develop what was left at that location, but to other companies Livarno Vuznica, Stilles and similar things. That's a fact. That at the time this Government took office, there were approximately 700 employees in this location and that there were about 200 employees in the TDR, the company we are talking about. And I'm sorry, 10 employees up or down, but I don't think I've made much of a mistake. And it would be hard to say that this government, this minister or anyone else in this coalition is responsible for such a state or trends that have been in the past. Between 2002 and 2004, TDR produced 1.2 billion tolars or slightly more than 5 million euros in losses. This was the situation at the end of 2004. Eight individual contracts were concluded in this company, where various bosses, chiefs and I don't know who else, had very large salaries for little effect. This is the first thing you need to say about this. Secondly, we are talking about a private company in which the state has a 0.0% share. I say, a private company operating in accordance with the law, the law on companies and, of course, other laws. And from this point of view, since this is a private company, the debate on this company would probably not be part of this well-respected assembly. But I supported today's debate when my colleague Germič asked a question about this case. At that time, some evidently misunderstood this. Maybe in the sense that this confirms that there, I don't know, something smells like that in the coalition they were going to start falling dominoes and that, yes, I don't know what was going on there. But the reasons why I supported this debate were completely different. The first reason is for sure that the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs does not allow Members to discuss our position so that we can possibly argue with those who have asked the question. It's disabled. The Rules of Procedure do not allow this. Secondly, I know the situation in this factory relatively well. I know because I have also tried to involve myself at some point or several times in the resolution of, above all, the jobs and pressures of workers that have also arisen due to poor business results and threatening bankruptcy or forcible settlement. These contacts were more and more with employees, including with the Ministry, and with holding, possibly with whom. And of course, I don't care, every job is precious, and I see it even more with some sensitivity, because I come from the vicinity of that environment. The next thing I know about the question and explanation of Comrade Germić is quite an inaccuracies, not even telling the facts. I think that such a debate can lead us to somehow clarify these things or put them in the right place. The next reason is that this is a more local problem if I call it that. I am simply unable to participate in these local debates, like my colleague Germič. As far as he's concerned, he knows. In this way, I was excluded from the possibility that we were trying to explain these things or at least to find some clues to possible solutions for the company and thus for the employees. And that's also the last reason, my pious desire that perhaps today through this debate there would be a freak of some possible solution from a local point of view, a very big problem for that environment. 200 jobs for one congregation, for one place of such size as Ruše, I think it's a real tragedy, if not worse. If we're talking about this company or, above all, the eyewitnesses that are flying on, I'm gonna go in line, first and foremost, selling in pieces. Why was it sold in pieces? The impression flew that individual parts of this company were sold and that they were created here, even, colleague Germič said - speculative profits. I'll tell you about it. My friend Anderlich, please. I'll be as quiet as a mouse when you're talking. If we open up the question of why he's selling in pieces. First, it is necessary to repeat: the decision on the sale of Metallurgy was taken by the previous government in 2003 and was envisaged in the sales programme for 2004 and 2005. So in 2003, the decision to sell this factory fell. Why was such a decision made at that time? Why do those today who are smart enough to sell parts and don't know everything, why didn't they make such decisions? There was simply no significant difference as regards the programme, as far as the company's situation is concerned. Why? That's one. Second. Short term. If the decision had fallen in 2003, a strategic partner, a buyer, I don't know, could be looked for in 2003. Why wasn't that? Comrade Anderlich, why? [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] Because you didn't want to sell out. [[...]] Yes, of course, because that's why you've created €5 million in losses and something else and so many and so many jobs have gone on forever. But the next clue is the purchase. I just can't go through with it. The fact is that at the time of the final decision on the sale, the company was actually before the bankruptcy. The company was mature for bankruptcy or should even be subject to bankruptcy proceedings in relation to the loss created in previous years. At that time it was necessary to decide whether to find a partner to invest in an undertaking that would provide certain guarantees to maintain jobs, or whether the company would simply leave the company to bankruptcy and would simply go 200 and several other workers on the road. At that time, it was decided to try to maintain the company and the jobs. I think that was the right decision back then. Next, the height of the purchase. The purchase is not only determined on the basis of some of the company’s accounting values, the purchase depends on how many old liabilities need to be settled, how many old loans need to be settled, how many old losses need to be settled or how old the losses are, how long it will take to settle, how long it will take to invest in the company in the coming years, how many jobs will be maintained. All of this is then taken over, and on this basis we can barely get a purchase. I say, thank God someone found himself who wanted to invest EUR 230 000 in such an imported company. I think there would be a lot more promising investments in Slovenia than investing in such a risky activity and in an enterprise in such poor condition. Next, non-transparent sale. The invitation to tender, if it really wasn't all the way it was supposed to be, then there would be no 9 applications. If it were written on someone's skin, then it would probably have been carried out so that only one could sign up, not nine, as was the application. And of these 9, this company, whatever it is, met the conditions and after subsequent negotiations, not only for the purchase, but also for the rest of the terms, this TDR was also sold. Now we get to what some of us might most hurt. This, however, is the sale of individual parts of the company or, as colleague Germič said, was a speculative profit. Legures have been sold for approximately €3.5 million. This money didn't go, I don't know any pocket, this money came back, or the TDR account. And why was that money spent? Let's see. Two million was the repayment of an old loan for a modulator project. The project, which was a project of one of the previous leaderships when Mr Kunst was Director, was there from 2003 to 2005, which was well known by colleague Germič. No, I don't. Last name. There is no reason for me to know him because I had no business in the congregation of Ruše, except in the nitrogen factory. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] That's possible. [[...]] And this project never came to life. At the time when this was being sold or when the loan was being rented, when all of this was being prepared and even when Mr Kunst was Director, this did not come to life. But this company is [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u128	Please don't talk. Let one speak. Mr. Germich, you then have your word for him.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u129	No, it's not. First he was a colleague of Anderlich, then Germich. That's it. Well, please. I can handle a lot of things, so maybe I'm not that much when you tell your friend Anderlich the truth, we're gonna have a weekly session, and we're just gonna listen to you. [[...]] [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, you know that. [[...]] If you have so much to say than before.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u130	Mr. Hwauc, please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u131	Mr. President! Here with the left "non stop" comment, they don't have a word. I'd ask if you'd calm them down. I'm not gonna calm them down. This is the project that was essentially a project that was implemented, a project that was not implemented, but the purchase of this alloy required the provision of EUR 2 million for the payment of this old loan. The second, which was a higher expenditure on this purchase, was the payment of electricity, and something for the operating assets and such fines as may not be so important. The second part, which was sold, was calcium carbide for EUR 3.8 million. This was the most important of which was the payment of electricity, but also something to cover the loss of those previous years when, of course, there were other directors and other owners. That's all it was for this purchase. If we add this up, it's far away from the sixteen million that Mr Pece was talking about, and far away from it blowing up anywhere. The approach to selling property that is not necessary for the operation of the company is also a purely normal business approach in Slovenia and also in the world. And I don't know why that could be controversial. And if it really was some speculative profit, then I don't understand why there would be a loss on TDR, if there really was some super, extra profit here, then probably TDR would also have a profit and today wouldn't be in a position to be in bankruptcy. There's something else possible about the employees. When we ask questions today, and we have slept for many years before, we all knock on their consciences or the hardship of those employees who are on the road, when they are completely unprotected, no one looks at them, and so on. That's not true. When the HSE sales contract was signed, a bank guarantee was provided for the employees in particular. That's in case this company's broken down. At the end of last year, the results began to deteriorate, and this bank guarantee remains at the back. I hope that if there is no other solution, but I firmly hope that there will be another solution, at least that will ensure some minimum safety for employees.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u133	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would just like to correct the fact that the programme, i.e. the statement of a colleague who spoke before me, so the sale programme in TDR-Metallurgy was adopted 20. Ten. 2005. Just enough to make it clear. However, this programme was adopted on the basis of a previously adopted decision. I would like to warn you here, I understand from my colleague Hwauc that he is now trying to justify his own act of voting. He wants to say something, and the facts speak differently. I would just like to make an assessment made by Mr Obrovnik, the president of the Council of Workers, who comments on this, say without hair on his tongue. "We had a school case of exhaustion of the company, first the former owner prepared the property for sale and reduced the basic capital for half the time, then in a year Tajnko burned all the legal, capital and reserves. If the former Director had a stock of raw materials and products at the level of Mr TDR-Metallurgy at the time of taking over would have shown profit and not loss, but this obviously should not have happened, at least then we could not have told TDR-Metallurgy to cover the loss of last year. On the contrary, if Tajko kept the raw materials at the same level as taking over the company, there would be no complications with lack of raw materials." Here I merely quote Mr Obrovnik, President of the Council of Workers, who directly commented on these stories over a period of time from the TDR Metallurgy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr. Hwauc, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u135	Yeah, buddy Germich. I simply cannot agree with the fact that I apologize for some of my decisions. I have honestly said why I voted last to hold this public debate on this. I have done this in full consciousness and in confidence and hope that the actual situation will be revealed and that there may be some other solution for this company, and especially for the employees at this location.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr. Juban has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Maybe now we're the ones who know TDR worse. Perhaps for the information that is not quite so, perhaps I am among the first to walk around this yard, especially when Agrochemia was still in the constituent part of the Nitrogen Plant Ruše, which was in Drava Valley, Slovenia, Yugoslavia and perhaps in Europe with its programmes that were there. And if we look at the factory, it's a very old object that's causing a lot of gray hair there today, here and above all there. The debate on this subject was also voted on by the Coalition Members to colleagues from Germić. But interestingly, perhaps with the exception of a colleague of Hvauc, they are gone today or rarely with an exception. And that something had happened in the middle, which was all sweaty, and the enthusiasm to clear things up, it seemed like it was a flurry. And now our colleague Germich is alone on this side. I must also say that I am not used to all these 16 years in order for us MPs to fight as we have been here. I will, of course, defend my colleague Germich in one very human way. He provoked his Russian mayor's colleague to know something more than he did and a revolt in this regard, I don't think he was justified. For the first time, we learned a lot from the mayor, a fellow Member, what we didn't know, probably he didn't know either. It means that the revolution was not exactly justified, but above all, I am concerned that the applicant – colleague Germič – would not have any workers, nor the labour council, nor the union. Then I would continue to understand, but these first three, if this is true, then God has mercy on these Rushans and these workers, that they are not interested, that the matter is burning, that it is not debated here and that it is not solved and that no solution is sought for them. And as much as we could see them through the media, these were people who were desperate and that now he wouldn't have had them behind him, it's very hard to believe. It was obvious to us, to those who voted in favour, populism. For me today, it's not populism if it suddenly stays on the road 5, 10, 100, 200 or more people. Here, too, the story was compared to Moore, which is a much larger story. That's where we got the same reading. Within the City Council, the LDS Committee has proposed a debate on the Mura issue in the same way as we are monitoring Russia today, with the difference that 4,000 people are there. And when it was just questions about what's going to happen to this company and these people tomorrow, it was said, it's the LDS political circus. That's how a qualified case was, and that's how it's being tried to present the story here today. The reason for the subsidised electricity. Is only this factory subsidised in Slovenia? I don't think so. And that's no reason to get TDR out of the country. We recently had a debate on the tycoons and their way of financing. For the company you buy, you take a loan, you buy a company, you pay through the production of a loan, or you sell it out. Is it not the exact same way in Rushan? There's a typo, and there's what? But isn't he here anymore? Although it was the exact same way. The ones we listened to today, you convinced us with arguments. And anyway, it's all sold out, it'll all be paid for, except for people. But there's probably 8 million more in the back. No one's denying it. There's probably 8 million more in the back. It means that from 240 thousand euros, we'll still come to the Seal number. And that's a relationship where something doesn't work, something bad is in the middle. Now it's back to running into the previous government. Yes, of course, thank God! We need to privatize, resell, just not in the way we listen here. And so far, no one has proved to us that it is not true that it has been purchased for EUR 240 000, that it has been sold for now for 8 or 10 million and that there is still a part to be sold in the back, about that much. These are the numbers that stand. Now maybe this. I think there are serial numbers repeating in this country. And now I'm gonna go outside a little bit, and I'm gonna go back to TDR again. 240 000 euros, 600 000 euros, million euros, it seems that we no longer have a sense of what that means in Slovenia. On the one hand, the company, whatever it is, where 200 people go on the road, for 240 thousand euros, on the other hand, a young man only gets commissions in half an hour to arrange installations in a paediatric hospital, in one company, to receive a commission, as much as the total TDR is worth. In half an hour, he earned as much as he's worth an entire TDR. He hasn't returned yet, there's no comment on it, no procedures that we've been talking about in the last few days. Every day we have information about some 600,000 euros. Again, 600,000 euros have happened. The MORS were miscalculated EUR 600,000. So what! The minister asked them to return them to him. But after three months when the media discovered the story. The Maribors are after someone who's been missing 600,000 euros, 100 cops gone. I wish we could have experienced this epilogue story. Whoever it is. Successful police, all congratulations. But the same miracle boy, they gave him back 600,000 taxes by mistake. When they found a mistake to seize him, there was nothing else in his account. Are we going to make it to a million? Role 2. The Mariborians know where he is. A million eight hundred was an investment in medical equipment. Today they calculated that the value was 800,000 euros, a million has disappeared. And the minister admitted, I need 550,000 euros to refit it. But there's nothing more, including that leftover 800,000, which was going to have to be equipped for a new one. But what scares us is that we're still getting numbers. Kosovo's commission and this patriotic madness have calculated that we will need 100 million euros to re-complete the patriotic equipment. And the difference in orders and supplies and the necessary ex post equipment is 100 million. Or, I've already mentioned Inter-Europe once today, where they put away people who can't watch what's going on there anymore. An investment of 20 million is foreseen. We already have 120 million in Russia. Does anyone else understand this story? And now I'm going back to the beginning. Why did I mention that, including in connection with the Russians? 240,000 euros is a story. A special commission was appointed in Owl, where the Attorney General was present and said to be the Minister of Justice, especially the commission, to determine what was going on with the ticket for 240,000 tolars. With all these numbers, thousands and millions of euros, somebody tell me what happened. What can we expect in Russia for 240 000 euros? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u138	Thank you. Mr. Rezman responded to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Very short. First, I tell Mr Juban that I responded that Mr Germič said that when others rescued companies, I was not heard. That's why I said they put him on a lie, dozens of meetings I had with the workers, with the leadership, with HSE and everyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u140	Mr. Rezman, come on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u141	Capital [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u142	Mr. Rezman, get on the microphone, on yours. Turn that off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u143	Do I have to say it again now?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u144	No, no, it's been heard. The second thing you want to say is this. When it comes to how much money someone else can cash, people who don't know how to do business talk about it. There's still a lot of capital in the company. This capital will have to be sold so that creditors can be paid. And that's up to the bankruptcy manager and the bankruptcy Senate. No one else decides that. And I don't know the bankruptcy in Slovenia that would be so screwed up [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] So we could even have something left to share. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u145	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u146	Your Honor! At first, I thought that it was only a discussion of another poorly answered or poorly prepared answer to the question of the Member State, which, in this mandate, so to speak, is the majority or all of them. It is simply an arrogance and a failure to respond to matters of vital importance to the citizens and citizens of this country. And it was more than obvious here that for more than half a year Mr Germič has asked, asked, asked, asked and received no answer. But now I see that this question is part of this set. It is part of an assessment that has been the most corrupt since 1990. 33% of the SDS government under the leadership of Janez Janša, and there are three other parties who are happy to add what they have to add, what voices when they have to give, when they have to squeeze, I don't know where, and of course they take as much as they want. Therefore, it would be very difficult for a person to understand this differently than evasive, misleading, and covering up some of the things that smell. And it's a big deal. You're talking about it being on the sales list back in the years. Of course, there was a lot more on the sales list in the previous years. And that's right. But it didn't sell in the previous years, because there probably wasn't a suitable buyer, there wasn't a real purchase, and it was pointless to sell. But in a way that you sell for EUR 229,511 and commit the buyer to continue to manage it, to manage it, and so on, and so on, after one month, do you believe that after one month of this contract, there is already a proposal to split it up. After one month, this customer was not even able to make a careful examination, which is done in such cases, in order to make a careful examination of what you would buy, what you bought, and how you would proceed. Three months after that, there's a total sale. It wouldn't be wrong for the government to say, "Okay, we can't sell this in a piece, let's sell it in pieces." I believe what's in here is written to get a buyer for every thing. And more. However, what we could not sell, as regards exclusively infrastructure, roads, railways or any other interpretation, would likely be given to the congregation as its property, free of charge to the congregation and would be public good, good to the citizens. How simple! But you have to do the exercise that belongs to the corruption scenario you're running. And here's your information, here's your evidence. It is no coincidence that you have a trilogy in Maribor or near Maribor, then W&P Profile Solarvalue and I don't know what, and some mystical stories in accounts where state money is rolling. Do you have any idea how many pensions or pension and dragnet allowances would be from that address of 600,000 euros or from this Delta that came into existence and that leaked into the pockets of friends advocated by the minister? It's huge. You can figure it out for yourself. But mine is only one thing to ask, and that's probably still allowed in this country, so I attract Mr. Ljub Germich to have an answer after six months. I wouldn't go into all the obvious, insinuation, insults that have already occurred in the National Assembly, but if you say six months ago, "I don't have appreciation, but I can deliver it." And that after six months here you're saying, "Yeah, it's here, read it, look at it." And to say another Member, "more, I have an audit report here, come for coffee and we'll take a look." Please! We're in the National Assembly. Come with the information! There is no information for an MP you could hide behind business secrets, for internal secrets, for state secrets and so on. But that's what you do. And this has fallen apart so far that the last limb of this coalition, including the mayor of an individual congregation, can say, I even have an audit report that is supposed to be a business secret. But you don't say here, you don't answer here. Just answer me, Minister, why don't you give your appreciation, why don't you report it. We can also stop this meeting and we can continue it another time. The fact that you couldn't or didn't want to give in six months is cynicism, arrogance, which is inherent to this government, which is a shame to repeat itself, which is expressed through a series of things. However, I would like to hear what my fellow Member also insists on how this appreciation, how it has been, how it has been with the audit report. How come you didn't insist on selling in your hair or going for sale yourself? Don't tell me the government has nothing to do with this, it's Holding Slovenian Power Plants and so on. You were the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, weren't you, Mr. Visjak? Maybe you're not anymore. I guess you're not anymore. Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Power Plants, which operated on behalf of the owner, the State, with this property. You're the one who approved the consent and withdrawal of the sale of shares. Am I wrong? If I'm wrong, I'll apologize. But you were the President of the Supervisory Board, on behalf of the owner. You were just talking about how you can't do anything because Holding Slovenian Power Plants as owner through the Supervisory Council, the Assembly, and so on he managed and adopted these conclusions. No, no, Mr. Visac, it's a very clear matter. And after all, even when it comes to compensation with electricity and so on, you know how you made decisions about why you compensated and so on. That's all the price, that's all the cost in the end. There's an account at the end. Even if you think it's just like that, it's probably not quite right. And there's nothing else to be done, Mr. Secretary, and no one in particular accuses you. Tell me why you went into why you didn't report, why you didn't insist on integrity. Since I simply tell you, I do not believe that after one month of sale there has been a split and sale by share, but you were not able to guarantee this because you would probably have survived the state and all the entities involved, significantly more, including the local community, which would indirectly or directly have some drip, or through workers or through duties or anything else.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u148	Dear Members and Members! I believe that if anyone, you know the rules of procedure of this National Assembly and you know who proposed the debate, and you know who may request documentation. All that paperwork you're gonna ask for, we're gonna deliver it to you. That's no problem. If anyone asks for any documentation, this is a proposal for a point that is either placed on a committee or a committee, we can deal with it there and we will deal with it if you want, it is no problem. Did anyone ask for any paperwork, a delivery? This is a proposal for a point to be placed either on the committee. We can deal with it there, and we'll deal with it if you want. That's not a problem. But that's not what you asked. Don't make me say we're hiding something. If they demanded it, if they demanded it, they'd get it. I don't have any of your letters about you wanting to have that. However, the fact that a Member asks me a question and mentions one appreciation in the oral question is not the basis for us to rush with this appreciation and to distribute it to this assembly. It's not! You know that, Your Honor, Mr. Anderlich. That's it. Finally, we also participated in this Rules of Procedure, which you are implementing today in this National Assembly. That's the first thing. There's no problem here. As far as the documentation is concerned, there is no problem with the sale of the Nitrogen Plant Ruša. That's the first thing. Second thing. Why did we go into this? It's very simple. It has been said here several times by experts of the situation even before, of course I am following this mandate and nothing more, and the matter has a significantly longer beard. She went from one company to another. Not because it would be a pearl, but because it was linked to certain circumstances, especially the supply of electricity. And she was creating a loss. Especially when Slovenia is in a lack of electricity and half of electricity, of course according to inputs, has therefore begun to give to the other half of the owner, namely Croatia. When a gap between supply and demand arose in Slovenia and when the price of electricity began to rise, a major problem arose for the provision of electricity. And it was clear that the cost of production was significantly higher than any other economy. And the result was a loss. And why did we sell it? Why did we go into this, you asked a little earlier. So we wanted to ensure, in the first phase, the further development of society, jobs, investments, investment and investment development and, secondly, we followed the purchase. That is why, at the interval of valuation, between zero and good €4 million, we chose the content side instead. I'd rather have a lot of further development. Regrettably, the new owner, who had all the powers, all the management entitlements, failed to fulfil the commitments we have also secured. He didn't make it. Not for reasons on our side, but for reasons on the other side. We know and want to share this burden with those most affected. They're workers. That is why I have said and declare once again that we will do everything within the framework of the law so that workers will be paid in full, including discharges. In fact, according to my information, the workers received all the wages. There's no unpaid salary. The problem is retirement. And we will also deal with this properly within the framework of the law, if possible. And I believe it is, with the good will of all the actors in this story. Once again, it was the withdrawal of the country from the economy, the desire for further development, not the desire to maximize the purchase and possible development of some trading centres at that location. It is likely that if we did not follow the content of job conservation, even after investing in updates, if we followed only the objectives of the maximum purchase, we could probably land at the upper limit. Holding Slovenian Power Plants, which was a seller, would receive, say, a top purchase or even more. It could've been like that. I'd get a few million euros more. The result would be that there would be a big question of what would be there today. I am also confident from all the discussions we have that one project will be born there, which will possibly be on a narrower scale than it is now, but will also offer employment in the final stage. Therefore, both the seller and the Commission, as well as the Government, which approved the sales programme and also the sales contract, followed the continuation of jobs and further investment in this production process. Of course, we have withdrawn from a variety of investments, including a variety of development projects. Most of them are successful. He's a failure, too. This one is definitely a failure. It's a good thing we're discussing him. That's right. It is right to explain the circumstances behind this. But it's not right for you to criminalize this act.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u149	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u150	Minister, I only asked you one question. How did you not know that if you sold it in pieces, you or Holding, who sold it, would get several times more, because after one month this new owner found out that it was worth it and he knew in advance that he would fertilize it in this way? That was my question. I didn't claim anything else, and I didn't deny that you had either the right or that it was wrong to sell. I said, in the previous term, it might have been on the list a long time ago, and some things drag on if you look at a few mandates, ten years. Like DDC, and there's another company that's been on the property sales list for ten years or more. But since you can't find an optimist, you can't go into this sale. You rushed it, and you went that way. My question is: Would it make more sense that you or Holding did this operation, which this alleged operation did, I don't know who it is, because it has a very complicated and very Slovenian name of the company, but I don't know how, so it is. Do you have an answer to that? Why didn't you try and do it this way if he knew in advance that it was a crazy good deal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr Minister addressed the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u152	I would be very happy if the Member who has asked me a question also listens to me because there is no reason for me to answer. No connection, then you'll ask me in five minutes why I didn't answer. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I don't think so. [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u153	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u154	Why we sold as a whole, it's been explained a number of times and I'll explain again. Because we believed and also set conditions in this direction that someone was developing a complex because it was built as a complex. These were functional parts that functioned as a whole. That's the first thing. The other thing is, the buyer made a commitment to invest. And when we sold after signing the sales contract, which was bound by all the guarantees, he believed that he would be able to bring the matter forward in a certain segment. Therefore, he also identified certain unnecessary assets in the revised business plan and obtained a consensus on this. Where the money went, we said. We can say it again. For the payment of unpaid electricity, for the payment of unpaid credits, for the payment of unpaid rematerial and also for the salaries of employees. Money went to pay for something that had to do with the production of these companies. When it showed that the sale would continue, and this was also exposed, some parts of the second warehouse, and I don't know what else, it ended up in insurance for further sales. And Holding gave him no more consent because he felt a problem. Once again, after the sale contract, Holding was or was obliged by the buyer to inform the holding company by March of the current business year. He bought this in October 2006 and reported in March 2008. During this period Holding was also able to monitor compliance with the contract, in the meantime it had no opportunity because it did not have one member in the supervisory board, because it did not have ownership rights either. And this same President of the Council of Workers - just a moment, ladies and gentlemen, this same representative of the Council of Workers was a member of the Supervisory Board. The same one who writes newspaper articles today is responsible for this in person because, as a member of the Governing Council, he is responsible for what he has done and for his decisions as a member of the Governing Council. Not the state, a member of the supervisory board, the one that provides you with information that muds all over the newspaper. So, once again, the government, not just the president of the supervisory board, see, the government has made a decision to sell the Nitrogen Plant Ruše. This was approved by the Government because the relationship between the post-business commitments and those purchase commitments was an optimal relationship. And it was very interesting of you to hear it a little while ago when you were talking, yes, but why didn't you leave it behind? Why didn't you let the country continue to subsidise around €4 million every year and why, therefore, these same companies don't create a few more million euros of loss each year, which should continue this agony, we will already cover. We'll cover it. We got rid of this pattern of yours and we want to give businesses a development opportunity. Once again, when we analyzed companies in difficulty or cases such as this in this mandate, these projects were very few, in fact because of restructuring projects, even because of some unsuspecting, energy-intensive or labour-intensive nature of production, these cases are significant, significantly smaller than those of successful recovery and development stories. And once again, this is where the state will take over, or indirectly Holding, all of these obligations that still go to the employees to mitigate these social consequences, because we think this is right and that this is necessary. But please don't criminalize these stories.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Germich, please, as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u156	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, Mr Minister, Mr Tajko knew this company very well and he didn't need time. He was also employed several times in this company for a certain period. And it is very surprising how quickly he put forward proposals for the disposal of unnecessary assets. He knew this company in detail. That's the first one. Second time you tell us how much electricity subsidies there are. I would like to remind you, Mr. Minister, that in 1917 the Fala power plant was built, because of electricity surpluses, the Ruše Nitrogen Factory was built. And take these historical facts into account when you talk about how someone is subsidizing someone. And also take into account the fact that Drava Power Plants also subsidize a number of projects in the Republic of Slovenia and do not drag us into the language as if we are now those social supporters in this environment. I find it a little underestimating. But I would like to remind you, Mr Minister, that you are telling me today that I did not request a document of appreciation. I'll read it, I may understand that you're not reading all the lines of the questions and that someone is preparing for you. But today he thinks I didn't ask for it - I'll read you the question twice! I'll put it in writing for you next time. "According to the final selling price of Metallurgy shares, which would be more than the price [[...]] [[He reads - incomprehensible.]] I ask you: how much was the value of the company evaluated, which elements were taken into account, and how were they valued? [[...]] Can you transmit the overall assessment of the company carried out by the company? [[..]] [[Incomprehensible]] Investment and business [[...]] [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] from which commitments will be made as well as other elements of valuation?" [[...]] That's what I'm asking. Secondly: What are the valuation values for the two parts of the company for the production of carbide and alloys? And what were the values of the valuation for the real estate and movable property of TDR Metalurgy, d.d. and TDR and W&P, which was published at the Evening on Saturday 20 October 2007? In one word, don't answer that. In a word! And today you're offering me to come to your table and take a look at it. Very incorrect, Minister, but I can also understand that you may not have been able to look at this, you have received an answer to the table and you have looked at it and you have signed it. I'll allow it. But don't tell me today that I didn't want to see that I didn't show any interest in seeing this document and saying that today. I wanted to have this information sooner than today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u157	Thank you. I would ask that it not only go to the debate in the duel and Mr Minister, because you have been directly challenged, the following will, of course, speak immediately to Mr Gulič. The others are waiting in line. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u158	Of course, but the MP was asking me questions and it looks like someone doesn't want to introduce anything. You have asked a very correct question in the context of the question. I answered it for you. I told you the appreciation of who was and so on. and even invited you to look at the appreciation. It's available here today, it's been two hours, you haven't found the time to look into it. The appreciation is here and you can look at it. However, if, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, honourable Members, the applicant may, of course, request and receive a specific item on the agenda. You have asked a question and you have received an answer to the question. And you asked me if I could find out how much appreciation there was, if I could find out that, what, what, what, what? You can find out and you found out [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] I can pass it on to you. [[...]] That's what I told you. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] I can give you an answer. I've already told you. I don't know when to answer that question. [[...]] Yes, you can. Now I'm even inviting you here to take a look at this, but you don't want to, because you're not interested in this because you're politicizing and you want to throw a bunch of people around here.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u159	Thank you. We'll continue with the list. Mr. Gulic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u160	Dear President! Appreciation of my colleague and colleagues! The polite question will obviously need to be taught by the Minister. It's polite to ask if you can. And then you can do it. But don't answer: you can. That's how it works when someone's being fucked. You say, Mr. Secretary, that you believed and that you must believe that you believed the buyer. This isn't about believing or not believing. You need to understand, analyze, check and something else. And if it's a man you knew was aware of, then you have to be more careful, that's all. I'd like to renew it for a while, but here are the things that have been going on all the time. First, we see that the problems with the tender deadline, then with the ratings, with the purchase, with the level of the purchase, with the appreciation, with the consent to sell. So if we look at all these stages, we see that there's something very strange and very very wrong everywhere. And then it is understandable that at first we were drugged by some gas in this hall today and came up with something that shouldn't have happened, how you're sitting and talking. I don't know, this is what the representative of NSI talked about, not here in Parliament, we're sitting down with the minister, we're going to have a little talk. You're asking for coffee and the thing started to smell so bad that you had to open the door to the clamp. What's the next phase so it won't smell? There's one more thing that turned out to be true. What Mr Ljubo Germič thought was not true, but it can be seen that the mayor is very involved in all these strange jobs. And this is another proof that the mayors in Parliament really shouldn't be, because they always get dirty on the ground with what, at least to the elbows or to the cuffs, Janc forgives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Drofenik. [[He's quitting.]] Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It is certainly true that this debate has been very necessary and useful here today, and I would not be asking myself whether anyone today should apologize for this because he voted in such a way that today this debate is possible and, on the other hand, I would not be talking about how we should actually be the opposition, sorry, I apologize to the coalition Members for voting so that this debate is still possible today. [[...]] The fact is that the situation is very worrying. The effects of the sale of shares in state-owned enterprises are particularly worrying. Some have already tried to simplify these things a little. I will always touch myself in these discussions, and I will also touch on today's debate on how at least that majority of the country's share in the Slovenian steel industry has been sold out. Initially, it was said here, what is wrong with this sale, because the Slovenian ironworks are working positively, because everything is fine there, but you, because you are the opposition, but that is also wrong. But that's not what this is about. The point is that even if the Slovenian steel industry did not sell to a new foreign owner, given that the economy in this area was already high in this sector, even when this sale decision was taken, it is clear that the Slovenian steel industry could operate positively without sale today. Of course, there is one difference, and that is that we now send most of the profits or take them abroad. On the other hand, small shareholders were injured, formerly employed, employed today and retired from the companies of the Slovenian steel industry. Of course, we were still witnessing manipulations about how much the purchase was for the Slovenian steel industry. In the Slovenian ironworks, they claimed to have received some more than 100 million euros and the Russian owner claimed to have paid more than 300 million euros. And then, of course, we ask ourselves, where is this difference, where is the difference of 200 million euros? Some of the answers go in this direction, yes, but the difference is that the new Russian owner will invest in development, in jobs, in the environment. He's going to invest! Well, I'm very happy if that's true. But we're only going to get a final answer about this a little later. The Russian buyer also promised to allow entry into the Russian market. Now it turns out that the protection customs for stainless steel in the Russian Federation are very high and that for the time being, as we increase or with our penetration into the Russian market, there will be nothing. Moreover, Russian producers themselves control the Russian market and even more, they also control the market in Ukraine. Otherwise, according to the Government, the purchase contract, which is undoubtedly excellent and beneficial for the seller, is of a confidential nature. What a surprise! Confidential nature! The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Economy answer the specific parliamentary questions that everything is fine, that the Treaty is very favourable. And what do you base that on? It's just that the two of them, the ministers, find out and argue. We're just supposed to take our word for it. But if we don't take our word for it, we're a suspect, a weak-minded opposition, and who else. Iskraemec's story is similar. The production and trade mark on the successful product market was sold to a foreign owner which, by technology, is far behind that producer purchased by this foreign company. The contract, as the Minister says, is fine and is very favourable. The new owner will invest €36 million in Iskraemeco; up to €36 million also means nothing or maybe more than nothing. And it is not explicitly stated which societies or where these societies are physically located. Certainly in Egypt, but they are likely to be located in India and Malaysia, where the labour force is much cheaper than we are. In our home in Kranj, however, everything is being prepared for the forgiveness of workers, and partly for their requalification. Which, as the employees of Iskraemec call us, means only a slightly longer journey to final unemployment. Otherwise, the government says it is all right to act rationally, that new foreign owners will invest in development, in new jobs and in the environment. At the time of its term of office, this government announced that the government and policy would withdraw from the economy. Part of this promise even comes true - but how does politics withdraw from the economy? By selling it, not by selling it, but by selling it out to state-owned companies. And for this, the ruling policy does not take any responsibility, and it is obvious that those who lose their jobs are responsible for this work, and these are not the ones who have made such irrational decisions. How do many people feel that some of the sellers have benefited from such unusual activities? Today, many times it has been pointed out that it is a feeling among people that corruption in Slovenia is increasing. Do you think it's just like that out of the vine? No, it certainly isn't. And that is why I think that such discussions as this one here today are necessary and useful. And since Mr Minister is constantly moving something and does not agree with what I am saying, I will be even more pleased and grateful if you will give any more information that will reject what I am saying. That's all I'd say. After these discussions, which we have had recently on the Slovenian steel industry and on Iskraemec, I have received some letters where people do not express their political affiliation, but they express their deep concern all the time because they are usually people who have worked in these industries or these societies and are very disappointed at what is happening to them now after so many years of working in these societies. Many of them have a road going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u164	Thank you very much. As a matter of fact, I am used to the SD Members of the SD of some flat-rate charges, which do not exactly correspond to the actual situation, let alone numbers. As long as you had a minister for work, while you were part of the government, we had 100,000 and more unemployed, now 30 to 35% less. So this government and this coalition have managed to do something about it. And it's not true that things are getting tougher, but in fact, the problems of businesses are completely different. The problems of the Slovenian steel industry are also completely different. Not that he forgives, he can't find the staff for the open jobs he has! At the time the state withdrew, the Slovenian steel industry employed almost 200 new people. And you're talking about getting some books. I don't know, you're probably living off some illusions, but not from specific data, honourable Member. The following, repeatedly expressed lie, obviously bet on the proverb to become the truth. This is the fact that the Russian buyer takes profits from Slovenia or from the system. That's not true! In the sales contract, which is well known to you, at least I hope that you have made so much effort that you have also repeatedly raised the issue and also in the contract available to Members have seen, the profits remain and are reinvested in the system for the next three years, from sales. Not a single euro, honourable Member, has the profits of this company been taken away by the Russian owner anywhere. Not a single euro! And please do not mislead people that foreigners are taking advantage of the successful business of the Slovenian steel industry. In particular, the Slovenian steel industry benefits from successful business. Why? Because it reinvests in the opening of new plants, new demanding investments. And for the first time in the history of the Slovenian steel industry, huge investments are made to make this production more competitive in the long term. The Slovenian steel industry is occupied with orders and business results are above expectations and there may also be a reason why markets are as covered at this point. But surely the Slovenian steel industry is more competitive in the long term, because it was the vertical link between the raw material supplier and production, the company is successful, it opens new jobs, it invests, and please, the contract was accessible, certain elements for which the buyer did not want to reveal them because of, of course, it also has its own competition on the world market and these are, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Guarantees. [[...]] All the essential elements of the Treaty have been made available to you, Members, within the framework of the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, and I have also discussed this on this Commission, together with the President of the Sales Commission, so that this is simply not true what you are saying. I'm so sorry and these are your answers. I don't know what else to tell you. These are the facts you have in Parliament because you requested them and you have them. Second. Scraemeco. Iskraemecco is now at a turning point in one of the productions that have somehow survived in Europe, perhaps for some of the other less developed markets of the world. Mechanical counters are actually a thing that is slowly extinguishing, so, probably, like the production of these ingredients or substances in the Ruše Nitrogen Factory. On the march, however, new electronic counters, which also offer service upgrades, are added value in terms of knowledge. Unfortunately, these new counters don't need as much labor as old counters, mechanical counters, electromagnetic counters. The result, of course, is that the company is restructuring in this direction and this is also a new owner's strategy, and I believe that there will be a balanced solution between the Human Resources and Social Programme in terms of overemployment and, of course, with some long-term social development plans.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u165	Thank you. You want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u166	Thank you very much. So, Mr Minister, when I was talking about the unemployed, I was saying this about Iskraemec, not about the Slovenian steel industry. And you're probably already trying to mix this up on purpose. Please be precise. I've been very precise in my performances, so I usually write things down to avoid being carried away and carried away, as you are now. As for those purchases paid by the Russian buyer of the Slovenian steel industry. It was said that that part of the purchase that was missing from 100 million and some to 300 million and some, the Russian buyer would invest in development, in jobs, in the environment. And now you're saying that the Russian customer doesn't take the profits home, but that the income is invested. I don't know now, Mr. Secretary. You can say whatever you want, and obviously you're used to talking like that, a little bit. And I'm not going to challenge you because I'm not used to talking like that. The fact is that one of the promises of the Russian buyer was to open up the Russian market by buying and buying this Slovenian steel industry. It's not like that right now. This is what I read in the interviews of the most responsible people who work in the Slovenian ironworks. And it's not about whether you believe me or whether I believe them or not. It is a matter of the fact that the Russian Federation has high protection duties on stainless steel, that it is therefore impossible to penetrate this market with more quantities, that this market does not need another steel, because it is already supplying its market and even the Ukrainian market, and that negotiations are currently under way between the Russian Federation and the European Union, in what time and how these safeguard duties will change. And the fact remains that the Slovenian steel industry still exports most of its production to the market of EU Member States. And because of that, the whole maneuver with which there were so many excuses, why this business would be so positive, is just too much. However, you did not answer the question as to what happened to the small shareholders who were injured. We know that a large, very difficult one is going on, as it is called, a lawsuit, and you know that these small shareholders have not informed the Slovenian public how many times they were, nicely in Slovenian terms, engulfed by their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u168	Yeah, of course, I've explained it a number of times, and I'm going to explain it to the public again, not because of you, because I know you don't want to understand and you're going to hear it, and you're probably going to be doing it again in five minutes just like now. Firstly, small shareholders in the case of the Slovenian steel industry were not cheated. On the contrary, they received the same offer for their shares as the State did. And more than that, almost half of the small shareholders accepted it because they thought it was okay. Two companies authorised to accept this, one is not. And I understand why it's not. Because the Society of Commissioners, the honourable Member, is not small shareholders, but the Company of Commissioners is the head of that company of Commissioners who, of course, has a paid position there and feels called on to do something about his salary and not lastly to keep it. For if the shareholders sold it, its fate would probably be questioned. And when this lady from the Chargé d'affaires starts to explain to me that she has an alternative appreciation, which is even higher several times, and when I find out that this valuation was made without a view of the company, without anyone being in the Slovenian steel industry, she valued the Slovenian steel industry. Sorry, I don't believe that we can evaluate the Slovenian steel industry from a comfortable armchair from an office. I don't believe it. However, I trust the official appreciater who, in fact, with all the attributes he has done and also submitted it, and he has also submitted it to the Members, and that is not a problem, once again. But it was a problem for me to see this appreciation alternative. I can't even argue with her, Your Honor, because I asked you to have her, and I didn't get her. As far as investment is concerned, the contract is clear. The Treaty is clear that the Russian buyer guarantees EUR 250 million of investment in the Slovenian steel industry over the next period. The source, how it will provide these 250 million euros, is its problem, not the problem of the Slovenian state. This is the buyer who has committed himself to investing this; and partially invests this also from the generated profit. So, the money that was created as a profit in the company is reinvested. This is also done by the Slovenian State. The Slovenian state is 25% owner plus one. Nor did it pick up one euro of dividends from the Slovenian steel industry during this mandate when the Slovenian steel industry operates positively and generates profits. Why? Because the Slovenian industry was a thirsty investment like, we say, the Sahara of Water. In fact, this holding was in restructuring, it was stifling through long-term survival and it is now necessary to restructure and to go along the path of development and therefore huge investments are necessary and these are happening today and new jobs are being created, profits are being created, taxes are being paid, people have wages, they pay contributions, and you say it is a scandal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I don't know what the reason is, but obviously there is a reason, on some - they repeatedly repeat one and the same lies as the Member State, even though it has been documented 10 times that it is wrong. She dragged data from the Cox website that she purposely misrepresented and still repeats one and the same thing. Is it possible that some have been sitting in this hall for too long and it would be good to go a little bit into real life and see things running in it or what? I don't know. Maybe that's the reason. In the Slovenian steel industry, I think, 10 times in this National Assembly, documents have been presented as to how things are. And the only thing we can agree on, not with the cause and effect, is that some shareholders feel damaged. Why? Because in 2001, you wrote 100 thousand tolars on that certificate when you couldn't get paid because the steel industry was in a deep crisis at the time, in a loss, even though you knew it wasn't worth more than 10,000 tolars. And now that they've got 50,000 tolars out, they normally feel damaged. But now this price has been set by the market, on the basis of a public tender, on the basis of an international invitation to tender. At that time, you, with no appreciation, as for 10,000, 100,000 who, through certification privatisation in pids of 100,000, as they had written on the certificate, even got out 5,000 or 10,000 - were they not injured? We are not harmed in this regard! That's right. However, I do not think that it is a story today, and it was mentioned in the beginning mainly because it was said: whatever happens in this area is wrong for the opposition. If things happen in a transparent way in order to be resolved, in order to no longer have to provide tax money to companies that are not profitable and have a loss and where with some money of the budget for many years it is only necessary to buy social peace that is wrong. And on the other hand, if it's a successful company, it's also wrong. Now, I really don't know what's right. It is undeniable that the obvious procedures that have been taken in recent years, as regards the sale of state property, have been following the objectives of maximising these values and effects, and one part of these results has certainly been appropriate economic growth, the lowest number of unemployed in the period since Slovenia is a single country, and 35,1700 newly opened cities in the last three years. It is likely that these figures did not happen on their own, but are due to some of the situations in the wider environment and measures in the domestic territory, which are both in the economic and tax fields, and you wanted to admit it or not. At the end of the year, the tax on paid salaries is definitively abolished, which you were unable to abolish throughout the period. Perhaps we should take your model, a model from 2003, when the company sold for a million euros while at the same time it was given a contract, worth 35 million euros, signed with the country. Perhaps this is a more correct model, a more transparent model to follow. I think that this 2003 model is untransparent, unbalanced, even more likely, and this model, by which things have been going on here, I don't think anything can be seen from the point of view of legality. The problem arose because the person who entered these boots obviously did not realize which boots he was entering, but the state or Holding of the Slovenian power plants did with the fuses the maximum protection mechanisms for this case, and that is all that can be done in this case. It is a shame, however, that this scenario has taken place as it is, and the most possible thing to do in this story is to prevent damage to employees and that this damage is being remedied in the most optimal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u171	Thank you. It's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u172	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Černač, you said that I was wasting my time on this matter of the Slovenian steel industry of lies and that I was dragging some things off the Internet and then explaining them in my own way. I didn't explain this in my own way, but I also have this advantage over you, because I really understand Russian very well, and I didn't even need any middleman to translate what the Russian buyer published on his website. The Russian buyer announced that it paid more than EUR 305 million for the share of the Slovenian steel industry. He wrote that he has already paid more than 305 million euros. But then this information was miraculously removed from this website - a few days later, when we Members began to ask such a question - and then another text was published, which talked about this modification, as you talk about it, that there is some direct purchase and another part of the purchase will go into this development, jobs and the environment. So much for that. Now, who's been in this room too long and should be gone? Some of us have been in this hall for a long time, but every time we came to this hall with a mandate given to us by the electorate. Some of you are a little less in this room, and some of us feel that it has been too long, but it will also be decided by the voters in the next elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u173	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u174	Mr President, I would ask you to prevent future abuses of the rules of procedure, as we have just witnessed by Mrs Bebler. The information she was talking about is public all the time. And the manipulation she's reacquainted with [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u175	Mr. Blackach, this is already a debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u176	Replica, don't deny what I'm talking about. She didn't fix any of the inaccuracies she was doing, but she demented herself. Because the data on the Cox website is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u177	Sir [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u178	both in Russian and in English. [[...]] The same day she said it and lied. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u179	Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u180	has been transmitted by [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u181	It's not procedural. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u182	websites, what does it say on this website? [[...]] She only read the first sentence, not the sequel.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u183	Mr. Blackach, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u184	105 plus 250 million Euros [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u185	This is not a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u186	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u187	Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u188	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues. It is difficult to be a resident of northeastern Slovenia. When the inhabitants of this part paid for the greatest weight of the transition when the TAM failed, the metal failed, the whole industry failed, we had to stand on our own feet and we really had to say that the country helped us with this. We are essentially the milestones of Slovenia at that border if you take any now that there is a market economy, and it would be wise to have good things on this border, but before and even now with some moves this government does not do so. Look, how many times have we defended this government - that such privatisation as they have proposed will not be good. What did she do? The largest giant we still have in Northeastern Slovenia is Nova Kredittna banka Maribor, sold overnight. Some bought it, including shares through the government, a tax oasis company, made a few million in one night just to buy and sell and then leave. And what's worse, more than 40 euros a share, we're only 28 more, and I can't wait for it to fall any longer, we're gonna take all the savings out and take the bank that way. There's something very similar about this TDR, you know. The whole thing, instead of now blossoming to move on, we kind of feel like we're at a funeral. This part of the TDR was of vital importance to the Russians and to the whole surrounding area and to all Pohorjes. He was a symbol, even if you want, of the reputations in this work, even though it's a misused word. But you're taking social security away from them now with projects like this and with a way of selling it like it was here. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I think the SDS is one of the leading roles in this case. In February, the president of the SDS in Ruša wrote to Janez Janša, called Kranjc. With his letter, he particularly highlights the poor situation of TDR Ruše, after being sold by the state-owned company Holding Slovenske Power Plant, which, of course, is run by Mr Jože Zagožen, I respect him, even though I am a member of the SDS. According to the TDR, Kranjec "has become entangled in serious economic problems, an unsustainable social situation, so I ask you and I call on you to exercise your authority personally in the matter." Kranjc also wrote that further non-communication, ignoring this is also my last letter," and added that "they are responsible for the situation, for distorting the actual situation and behind-the-scenes games and for disregarding the opinions of others by the Ministry of Economy and Holding the Slovenian Power Plants." Who played the lead on TDR? Mr Minister, Eminent member of the SDS, Mr Jože Zagozhen, Eminent member of the SDS, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is also a member of the SDS, one of the leaders of the Russian Federation. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, if this does not smell of some sort of corruption, let the devil take me too - this way of selling out. And with this whole operation that you've been running, Mr. Secretary, I can say that the operation worked and the patient died. That's it! And the people who are about to get the books in their hands, I don't know if they're going to vote you again with the thrill of being elected in the Russians. For each project, instead of being arrogant towards us Members, do something a little more useful for this country. I'm talking to you here from this city as a Member. You were once a Member, and you were doing a little differently than you are doing now that you're on the other side. The old Latins said "Quidquid agis, prudentter ages, et respice fine!" Whatever you do, do it smart and think about the end. And it would be good if you thought the elections were getting closer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u190	Dear Member, Mr Mogue, I respect you as a Member, and I wonder how you feel about me acting arrogantly towards people. I don't treat people arrogantly! How do you feel about me acting arrogantly to the Members? If anyone respects the work of a Member, I respect him. But I don't respect the lies that have been told, and that's true. And you, too, have gone a little too far, honourable Member Moja. You've just convicted Holding of the Slovenian Power Plants and me of corruption, if I understand correctly. I don't think that's right, and I urge you to attach evidence to this. [[...]] [[The response from the bench.]] No, Your Honor Mogo, this is not what our member wrote down. This is what you concluded. [[...]] And most definitely I reject any involvement in the agony of the Nitrogen Factory, which it experienced in the last year, after it was also sold by Holdinga Slovenian Power Plants. At that time, the Republic of Slovenia or Holding had no, as I would say, members of the Supervisory Council, but they had workers who were also grumbling today, who were co-forming certain decisions. And I'm also asking you to provide some evidence of this because I appreciate you, not least, and you probably have this evidence. The letter you are saying is a letter that eventually also corresponded to a number of calls from that region. Both the Ministry and Holding responded and tried to solve the problems. We have always tried to solve problems and have been in dialogue with the owner so that we can help put this company on track. And, of course, I would be very happy if we were successful at this. But once again, the scissors and canvas in the operation of this company were not in the hands of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants or the Ministry of Economy. And that's why there's an epilogue of a case that happened with a forced settlement and later with bankruptcy, an epilogue that we're not. I know you want to politicize this now and turn the blame on us. This is just a normal form of parliamentary combat, and that's all right and right. But I don't want to be arrogant if I don't agree to it, and I don't want to be accused of some criminal acts I haven't committed and I wouldn't do them in my sleep.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. I hope I've never accused anyone of a crime either, and I hope not now, but I will read what it says in some documents. And for the first time, I'm gonna say it for the first time. Today it has been repeatedly said, until now, that of course it does not hold that the buyer of Metallurgy has gone a month and a half behind those immediately to sell already one part of production. Here's a letter he wrote to Holding of Slovenian Power Plants 18. Ten. - when I reminded the minister when he didn't know - 2006 was bought the company, then there were Christmas holidays and a new year, and 10. 1. 2007 was a request and a request for divestment of the first surplus assets. Ten. 1. say, part-time work month and a half, incomplete! That is to say, it will be difficult for you to convince me that the buyer has not had any other information since October, that he has not fulfilled his programme, which he wrote in the contract to which you refer and swear and has been in breach with HSE for two months now. It's a letter from six. 3. 2007 - granted a permit by HSE. In the month of May, when the second permit was given, one of the employees wrote to me, but since it's not a document, I'll read you what he wrote to me. This is the end of May 2005, and he wrote: "In so far as HSE, i.e. Holding Slovenian power plants will change the terms of the signed contract in order to release the guarantees, by doing so he will violate the terms of the tender documentation or violate, damage and impoverish the facilities where the investment was envisaged, and eventually damage the other shareholders of TDR Metallurgy d.d. However, if the HSE does not do so, production will never happen again in the TDR. It will be followed by bankruptcy and probably the liquidation of the company." May 2005 was written! This is a man who has been employed for 20 years in this company, so there won't be a problem not saying that he doesn't know or that he doesn't know the situation. Apparently there's someone who knows the situation better than Mayor Rush himself. A script written on the skin of HSE. In the event of bankruptcy, HSE will save around €15 million over the next four years. However, if he has to supply energy, he will have to buy it on the open market because Slovenia does not have enough, so that it will cost up to EUR 40 million. This is written, there is no document; but there is written a note, the observation of the man who was there in Rušah on the face of the city. And in the end, he writes some other stuff, but in the end, it's interesting. When you're talking about selling this off, look at what you're asking in the end of May as a question: "Where did the realisation of the stocks of fine factions stock taken over at the time of the purchase of the company, sold for about one million euros, with a book value of 400,000 euros?" You have an audit, and it's probably in this audit that this one is written down, because the other one is this one. A little worse than that, "Wasn't TDR damaged because the sale of goods to the owner at low prices or at prices applicable to goods imported from China? With a ton of $400 to $500, 3,000 tons, that means a lot plus an incas." He's asking himself if anyone knows where he's going. And just in the end, the entire TDR Metallurgy had more than 254,000 square metres of earth's surface before vaccination." And if you ask me, we talk about everything else, but the dry gold is this area - Ruše, very close to Maribor, Ruša, as you promise to have a development perspective, it is really gold. And I wonder, like Lip Bled, if this area is in all these years, but now I'm not just talking about your government, it's really in all the balance sheets of this same company that those who live exactly in the Russians can say so much about. Although I am a Mariborian and I have some classmates who worked in Ruša, and believe me, I do not say things to myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u194	Yeah, first. Several mentions were made of why the sale of unnecessary assets was made immediately after the conclusion of the sales contract. That's because it was meant to be! The disposal of unnecessary assets is part of the original operational programme and, of course, has been an integral part of the development of this company. [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] The investor took over the liabilities under the new investment contract and at the same time defined a sub-programme for divestment of unnecessary assets. [[...]] That's the first thing. It is because we do not want to ask ourselves as these writers wonder how this is possible, how it is possible, and, of course, because we do not possess certain firefighters and innkeepers, that we have ordered an audit for these qualified auditors. KPMG carried out an audit on the operation of this one year, analysed financial flows and so on. And the audit notes that there has been no, as I would say, resorting to or some of the hints of disputed conduct that you are citing. It didn't come. This has been done by people who get to know each other in this business, not by those who ask themselves, as you read to me in the letter in the end! And I believe that these things are running away from you, of course, and that you have certain mistrust. But if I were to tell you here about my feelings, that I think that's true, then I would believe that your concerns are in place. However, if I do so on the basis of the audit carried out for this year and where the findings of the people who know it are, I trust them. And now I'm asking you to trust them, too. We, with this documentation, like in some other cases, such as the Slovenian steel industry, can also come before some other authorities if there are requirements for this, if there is a need for it, if you wish to do so, and in fact, we will also face this documentation and re-debate it; it can show a lot of evidence. But once again, we're talking and we want to talk about arguments. And we're willing, really, in any case, not just to talk argumentatively, but not to wonder whether that's the way it is, whether a worker told us whether the other person wrote us such a letter. And even when a gentleman from the LDS Group is here, I don't know if it's a custom, such communication, he brings an article from a journalist, and he says it's a fact and some proof of what. The newspaper article is really nothing but information about how a journalist sees something. She can see it right, she can see it wrong. And here he sums up a letter from a gentleman who also has an opinion. We talked a lot about letters today. But once again, gentlemen, I trust the relevant facts arising from the valuations resulting from the audits resulting from the formal legal facts. This is the way we can get to the bottom of things.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Prevc. [[Ad in the background.]] Do you have a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u196	I would just like to replicate and ask the Minister, in a way, not to use these terms, that when someone else expresses their opinion that this is a bar debate. [[The ad from the bench.]] Here, that's the attitude that's usually in the inn when you go to the bar and go back to the table. That's right! That is true, and so once again I would say, if someone were to express a position or even if a question that someone has asked, which is apparently at least as familiar with things as you do or knows them as you do, do not immediately characterize it as a barbaric debate. And in the end. You convinced me today only that the new owner, who received this company from you on 18 October 2006, was only owned by a transport cart to handle matters. Since the sale of this, as I said before, would have been done by HSE itself in January without this broker who signed this contract with you, and in part sold Metallurgy. If he could, why couldn't you, of course?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr Rugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u198	Thank you very much. I'm not exactly burdened with the nitrogen plant Ruše so directly, but today, when I hear it, I don't care anymore. Look! Before, somehow, all of this led to a conflict between the LDS and DeSUS. Now that Mr Rezman has gone out, somehow the LDS wants all the blame here on Holding and on the Ministry of Economy, or on the Minister himself. Look, I got the data, maybe even more than anyone in here has. But none of this data shows that any mistake would have been made on Holding or less, much less at the Ministry. The sale was legitimate, legal and, above all, public, on a public invitation to tender. The company was only rated as much as it was. You all know the company was in bad business. You all know that! And even if Holding sold this company, there's nothing wrong. Someone earlier said that this company was established when we had too much electricity. Unfortunately, we have less electricity today. Electricity has its price and if this company was no longer competitive on the market - yes, God help us, we will have to decide to do in Slovenia those things that will be worth it. They've cleared this out a long time ago. But there's something else I'm more concerned about; that you're just looking for disputes. And I am very pleased to hear from the Minister there and also from Mr Pozeb that they will meet tomorrow precisely in order to solve the problem of these dismissed workers. They're gonna try to fix these things. They'll be looking for new solutions. That's the point, gentlemen! Not now that this gentleman who managed this factory was not well-managed. I'm afraid not. I don't know how. We had a similar case in Sevnica with Morning when there is no "waral". The man bought it, and it didn't work. I don't know, working intensive industries, it's all conditioned by energy prices! Yeah, if it doesn't work! And now you're obviously dealing with things like this here to finally get to the point where you're trying to prove in the opposition right now that the water's on fire. At least it's fruitless and barren. Maybe someone is laughing at this, but I'm telling you, if one of you is listening to this from the outside - I understand Mr. Germich or perhaps Mr. Rezman, who are emotionally connected to this, and now they're looking for market niche, especially for the upcoming elections. I believe you're all looking for them, but you won't find them here! I tell you that the solution for those who have lost their jobs is in newly created cities, in jobs that will create something, a new added value, where profit will be generated, not loss. I tell you, each of those employees will understand this and will also agree with this kind of resolution that is expected. And by no means do I agree that Holding would now give up those guarantees in the contract itself, the contract was price-low, we can say relatively, the amount of purchase; but there were also guarantees and, above all, these guarantees are the most important for these employees. And today, to ask Holding to waive these financial guarantees, no, it is precisely this money that needs to be "swimming" for these employees, and I am here to give absolutely right to the Minister and also to Mr Pozeb. As for other things, I tell you, with such a way of discussing what you are doing today, you would bring the entire Slovenian economy to nothing. I remember well when you promised 100,000 new jobs for some pre-election propaganda. I don't know if you meant them on the solar board or any jobs. None of this happened! And I believe that people will know where it takes your way of thinking, if they haven't, I hope they are. This government and this coalition have created many new jobs, as well as economic growth, this is important. [[The ad from the bench.]] Yes, I'm sorry, but show me those studies of yours on which they were based - 100,000 new jobs in this country. What happened to that? Nothing, everything was falling apart. Yes, of course it was, yes. Well, one more time at a time. Finally, we come even so far that this government is to blame, perhaps, or the minister that there was a bad smell in this hall because of those paints or varnishes or what I know that we have bad weather, that it is to blame for inflation if the price of oil rises on the world market or the price of wheat - yes, because it is to blame! I'm sure it is. I tell you that the results of this government and this coalition are clear and will be presented to people - who have already forgotten something, what has done all the good. I think the debaters have already told me everything before, and I won't repeat it again and it doesn't make any sense to repeat it here. And I'm not even going to listen to any more of your inventions that you're making here, and you're blaming the Ministry or Holding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. The previous debate has just shown how improperly we are leading this debate. Data on TDR Metallurgy's business outcome, 2005 - positive result of 63 million, 2004 - positive result of 80 million; I am talking about the company's business performance. This government sold TDR Metallurgy and bankrupted it. It sold it for a very low purchase and allowed the new owner to sell individual parts in millions of dollars, these are facts. At the same time, 150 employees lost their jobs. Whether you want to hear it or not, it's your responsibility. It has been reported here today that in the previous period, 2000-2004 an investment was made that showed loss and is today an integral part of TDR Legura. Let's check this data when you talk about how unsuccessful this investment was! Give me a call, check with the owners, and you'll find the facts are different. And so many instigations, so much incorrect information in this debate is really underestimating to the people we live there. I've been a technologist on all segments of TDR Metallurgy and I know very well. And I'm not talking about it. The question arises: if you sell the vital parts of this factory, to which you also tie the business and investment case, the fact that the new owner was placed under different conditions and that he may not really have any choice but to bring the case to bankruptcy. Is that what you want, or is that what you don't want? Mr Minister, that is why today - I have been polite in my written questions and I have asked you if you can convey my appreciation. My colleague Petan said it was a very gentle word for you to ask for. I demand that you do not encourage me not to be interested. I was interested in this a few months ago, I ask if this is the right word, I find it rude to refer the Member to the Minister, but Mr Minister, I ask you to provide me with documents, valuations, contracts and an audit report or an audit report. Because this whole thing is going to give you an insight into it. And, Mr Minister, I think you did not want to underestimate the role of a Member in order to read documents that should have been substantially earlier through the panel when I proposed it myself. I think it is unfair for an MP to ask a minister or a minister to do so. I ask you, however, because it seems to me that this is a correct relationship between the Member and the Minister, to provide me with these documents so that I can look at them in peace and at a certain time. And, Mr Minister, given that I have also called on you to present the opinion of the parliamentary group in conclusion, today's debate will show options, measures, proposals, how and what to do. You mentioned that the workers would be entitled, so by law they were entitled to get the benefits, and that they would be in bankruptcy if they got anything if they negotiated anything. I would ask you to present to us here now, given that the debate will go to the end, what are the proposals that you will come up with so that we can talk in Ruša that everything was not so bad. Whether you support a proposal that didn't grow on my lawn, it has grown on the manger, because today I too have been set up not to talk to people, employees, me or to talk to me about those who want to do something politically bad. No, they're talking about how to find a solution. You did not agree to the proposal that, given that the purchase contract obliged the buyer to have employment for all employees by the end of 2009. If that is not the case, the fine for a buyer is 1,000 euros per month per worker. My proposal, which is only summarised by the workers, was that Holding, because I still assess that the type of measures that Holding has taken, and this is in particular the issue of consent without considering what this will bring to the business, in order to employ these employees within the framework of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, because the funds for this and the obligation to do so should be taken over, given that you were, that is, Holding, the custodian of this contract. This has not grown on my diaphragm, I merely tolerate what has already been presented to the management of Holding and the workers, and who have been promised to have the proposal examined. Given that you also have a representative of Holding here today, I am sure, given that you have been so intensely engaged in how and what you are to date, given that this has been April, that you have studied this to date and that you will be able to do so to people, because I am sure that you have a position to answer people's questions about what you think about this proposal. Of course, I also ask you to tell us what measures and how you see the possibilities to help us, this environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think, honourable Member, that in this way you "reciprocate" these people, but not help. That's the first thing. You'll say again that I'm arrogant and so forth, but that's true. First of all, you said the government interrupted the positive business of the Nitrogen Plant Ruše. I will tell you again, and this can also be discussed by the former directors of the Slovenian Power Plant Holding, who are likely to be available to you information that the mother, that is Holding, was selling Nitroika Ruše electricity at a significantly lower price than the market price and that these annual subsidies were at the level of EUR 4 million. That's a fact. Compare the price if you are already so well informed and know that this is the least problem for you, at what price electricity was then purchased by the Ruše Nitroika Factory from Holdinga Slovenian Power Plant and what was the average selling price of this same electricity, the quality of such electricity with system services or more that Holding could sell on the market. And you will find that the difference is about EUR 4 million. And if the Ruša Nitrogen Factory were to buy energy under some normal market conditions, which is in line with the European acquis, there would be around 4 million Euros of loss here on an annual basis. That's the truth. That's the first thing. The other thing is, we didn't sell anything. He was selling to the owner. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] And even then you got involved because we were selling it was the owner in trouble because he didn't see a different solution. Well, please. Proposals for the disposal of unnecessary property came from the owner, Holding, here I also have documentation, examined the visa of his business and operational plan. It took him two months for this first agreement to betray him, because he put him in line with the plan or whether he was going or not, and so on. At the same time, the buyer or this private person also guaranteed that all investments, as he had promised, would be made further. See, as far as documentation is concerned, honourable Member, you are probably familiar with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, request documentation in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Parliament will receive the material from the Government as requested. We are not a Member of Parliament - the Minister and I cannot give you this without proper grounds in the Rules of Procedure and acts, I cannot. I told you, you can have it, I can give it to you, and you don't want it because you're making it out of this political story. You're not interested in facts, but you're interested in procedure. Okay, but people out there are interested in a solution. And now for salvation. As far as the assets of this company are concerned, it is in the hands of the bankruptcy manager. It is not affected by the National Assembly and not by the Government. The bankruptcy manager shall only comply with the notices prescribed and foreseen for this purpose. Of course, he is committed to acting as a good master or to maximizing the solution and the solution. Some buyers want to develop this work, and I believe there will be a solution here. I think that the solution is in new jobs, but it is not a solution to planned employment, as you suggest that a state-owned company should now be forced to, I don't know, employ people and I don't know, we have to create, a respected Member, a new job and we are doing it. [[...]] And according to the data I have from that part of Slovenia, including from the data from neighbouring companies, companies on the same as I would say, the business complex needs a certain workforce. You probably know that too because you're from that end. Directors have already talked to me about the huge demagogies here. Moreover, I think it is necessary to create jobs for these people in particular in order to engage economically, not under duress, under some planning tactic, as it was likely in the past. And one more thing, I also want to say, is that we will pay the people with the severance payments in dignity, despite the fact that the matter is, of course, a matter of bankruptcy. You know what's in bankruptcy and that you don't want to get paid by holding guarantees, which, of course, in this case, are being cashed out, because things aren't working out, some other creditors are paying off, but mostly workers. That's why we're gonna be trying to find a solution here. And as I have already mentioned, Holding has provided one solution to the bankruptcy manager, because I know that the weakest article on which backs are here today is some kind of political struggle precisely those people who have lost their jobs and need to be helped first. And today you've spent a little too much time on some accusations and not enough on these people.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, of course, in your style, I was not talking about any planned employment. I was talking about the commitment, which the co-signatory was Holding, about the contract that bound the new owner to hire people and the numbers are written down, all the numbers are written, with the names of the employees, that these people will have jobs by 2009. That's what I'm talking about. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] That's what I'm talking about. And I'm talking about what people are going to have from the fact that it's written like that. Like you just said, they're not gonna have anything. They'll have that retirement if anything falls out of the bankruptcy. On the basis of this provision in this Treaty, people will have nothing. And don't urge me to "require" these people, but I'm talking about that this is an integral part of the contract, that this is the obligation that Holding has co-signed, and that this has been confirmed by the Government and that this is what I'm talking about. The government confirmed the choice made by the sales commission and this is certainly an integral part of the purchasing contract. And that's what I was asking you. And I don't want you to give me some planning job, because you know that wasn't my purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u205	I would like there to be no bickering because there are other debaters waiting. But this is such that I must also give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again, Holding has established a contractual penalty in the event that the buyer does not comply with the job maintenance provisions. Holding did not assume any obligation to provide jobs in the event that the buyer is unable to do so. And not here fooling people because you're deceiving them. We want to say that with this money that Holding gets, we're gonna pay people off. That's what I'm talking about. This money will not be on Holding, but in the form of discharges to people and at the same time efforts to create new jobs where, in fact, a few initiatives are already under way.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Of course, today’s point is much wider than just the Nitrogen Factory. However, in particular, the Minister's replies indicate that he does not understand or does not want to understand what the effects of the sale of shares in state-owned enterprises are. We can continue the discussion on TD Ruša and add more to this. It is fundamental that consent was given by Holding Slovenian Power Plants. It is fundamental that Holding the Slovenian Power Plant is owned by the Republic of Slovenia. And if you were solving one of the problems of Holding the Slovenian Power Plant, you couldn't solve it at the expense of employees in this company. This agreement, however, was crucial to what the State reported on July 27th to be taken over, the sole purpose of which was, in simple terms, to obtain that property that was there, which was worth selling off. Mr. Minister, we're supposed to start dealing with these jobs today. A few weeks ago, I watched on television the fact that the bankruptcy manager handed these people work books. What have you done so far? Or should I ask you what you've done with hundreds of jobs in Iskraemec? I'm asking you about Iskraemec on purpose. What about jobs in the Slovenian steel industry? That's funny. Mr Minister, the jobs paid by people in the Slovenian steel industry by losing or not getting their privatisation rights because you sold them the way you sold them. You know, this really isn't a big invention. So I ask you: How will you create jobs? How you will create and how many jobs you have created in this mandate, if Slovenia is currently the first among the European Union countries by number or if you want a % of temporary jobs in young people between 16 and 25 years of age. Mr. Minister, you know that 66% of young people between 16 and 25 years of age, who are currently employed, are employed in temporary employment contracts. 66%. That after that we are at the summit of the European Union. Denmark, which has so-called flexicurity, is there this percentage of 20%. And you know what's worse? That these 66% are among young men. Among young women, however, there is 75%. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You guys just calm down because you don't know what this is about. [[...]] But it's 75% of women who don't have a regular job and you know, if you create jobs in this way, then of course you create a different society. So I ask you, how many permanent jobs have you really created? How many permanent jobs? And now, of course, to the Minister, given that he was so vehement about the Rules of Procedure. I inform you that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 45, Members of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, we will request all the documentation from you. I'm surprised you haven't already provided this documentation yourself as material to prepare for this point. Mr. Secretary, you can if you want. Don't you want to, Mr. Secretary? Because you don't want to, we'll demand it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As requested by the Minister of Finance of the General Navigation Treaty, as requested by the SIJ documentation, as requested by the Minister of Finance, all these documents prove that you are negotiating poorly. Look what's happening to you in Iskraemec. Moving counter production, stopping production and developing digital counters. You are the Minister of Economy, and you have let this be resolved by a president, the director of the Slovenian Compensation Society, who is supposed to be involved in denationalisation. Iskraemeco, as a company that has had business opportunities in Scandinavia, has, because of the policy of this government, allowed you to own some of the capital of two brothers in a family that has quarreled with each other, which now closes this production and moves production either to Malaysia, India or Egypt. 30 kilometers north of here, and in Kranj there will be people, highly qualified people who have lost their jobs and the same story with the Russians. Of course, the problem in the Russians is the story of energy. We both know that. But I'm asking you, what are you going to do next? Are you going to be an aluminum factory, Impol, and so on you're going to close? What are you gonna do? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] You too can be quite quiet, Comrade Jerovšek. [[...]] I've been listening to you a lot today, so just calm down. I would like to ask you a question, Mr Minister, and everything you have done in your mandate in the field of the Ministry of the Economy, you have sold individual companies quickly, unconsciously, usually with these or those customer connections. And from some production at TD Ruše, now I don't know what happened there, some real estate investment. From Iskraemec, I don't know what, in the narration, the economic fair in Kranj, and production will not be where. But people lose jobs. And what are you replacing them with? You replace them with temporary jobs. That's really not much of a philosophy. This minister is not a great philosophy and, of course, I'm interested in what you've opened up in this mandate, what I remember, as a new investment, was an investment in the so-called new Clio, if you want or if you want a new Reneult model. But I would remind you, Mr. Minister, that you and your Prime Minister, Janez Janša, criticized this investment in 2004. They were very critical of this investment in Revoz, which was signed by colleague Lahovnik and colleague Rob at the time, but this is the only investment that has created permanent jobs. And you tell me, how many permanent jobs have you created? I ask you very much to take into account here those 50 temporary jobs in the production of armored equipment in Šostanje. Because if the anti-corruption clause is in force, those jobs will also quickly become temporary. That is why I agree with you, what you said in your reply about the Nitrogen Factory is more than clear that it was one of the painful or would say more difficult investments by Holding of the Slovenian power plant. I believe that you, as President of the Supervisory Board, did not know how to handle it and therefore resigned as President of the Supervisory Board. And I believe that you have, of course, left some subordinates to take this story away. But in the way that they took her away, Mr Minister, this way, of course, is unacceptable to us as an opposition, not because I would have had something against you, but because I cannot see that people after 40, 38, 35 years of work get working books for something that is competitive goods, because you know well, Mr Minister, that the issue of production, some of the products that are produced there, is such that on the world market these products should, as happened in the Slovenian steel industry, when you said, I don't know what you would do, but you sold them cheaply to the Russians. Today, however, the Russians are making high profits due to demand other than the world's markets. And they make high profits out of it. But that's what you did. Perhaps Mr Vizjak did not do so, but the Ministry of the Economy did, and he is the responsible Minister for the Economy, even though Mrs Andrian Starina Kosom has long led this, which you said you were sorry that you hired her, and this or him sir. But I don't care. You're the government's representative here. And you, as a representative of the government, as Minister of the Economy, are obliged to create good projects. In these projects, which I mention today: TDR Ruše, SIJ, Iskremeco, I see pain on people's faces and I see that people are losing jobs and that production is moving. You can see that, Mr. Secretary, and that's on you! You've been dealing with domestic Termes Catež for more time than anything else. More time! And then you ended up in court, as it's called, losing yourself not to use any other more human expression. But you know, you don't fit in like Andrej from Styria on the radio, but you do some things and you have to comment, you have to deal with politics and you have to deal with creating the right conditions. Creating conditions where your Holding Slovenian Power Plants allows this gentleman to sell off his assets and then the story ends, and this is not a great science. And that is why, Minister, with all due respect - indeed, you have taken over the difficult resort, you have taken on serious things into your own resort, you have not been a part of it. You have not been a part of this, so permanent jobs in Slovenia are lost. And that's your responsibility, and you didn't write that in your brochure. People can feel it. People feel it on their own, either in their pocket, because the wages are getting lower, because somehow managed companies are paying less and less wages, and you sat quietly in negotiations between employers and employees on this issue, or you get workbooks. Because of your policy. And for this policy you will receive an assessment at the end of the school year, Mr Andrej of Styria.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u210	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Squeakle. I'm used to those, let's say, falling out, and I'm happy to answer some of them. How many jobs have we created? - a record number in this mandate. A few 10,000 new jobs were created, so unemployment fell from your production of good 100,000 unemployed, to about 65,000 unemployed. Who do you think hired these 35,000 people and more, because the working population has also increased. Who? Public administration? No, no, no. We have reduced the number of employees in the public administration, they have been employed in the economy, because of the good people, not because of the bluffs I see here. And, Your Honor, Mr. Squeakle. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u211	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u212	These are the numbers.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u213	Mr. Secretary, one moment. I'll stop any debate and order a break if we don't act like it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u214	Just not on account of my time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u215	How We Must Act [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u216	On account of my time [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u217	In the National Assembly when the debate is under way! [[...]] That's why, please, the Minister has the word I gave him and no one else! Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u218	Look, one minute's gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u219	Here you go. I'll take that into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u220	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u221	Yeah, I'll take care of it! [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u222	By comparing the Members to the bluffs, you won't take it into account?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u223	Excuse me, ma'am. Spending. I was talking, and no one else was talking. And if I have spoken and warned the National Assembly, I will also allow myself to extend this to one minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u224	This is specific information. Now Mr. Squeakle has gone out because he's not, I'd say, not ready to face numbers, but puffs. It's just in his way. He says, "How many jobs?" I say: At least 50,000 jobs have been created in this mandate, at least because the number of unemployed has decreased by about 40,000. These are the numbers, these are the evidence. The highest economic growth. Permanent economic growth, that's what we all envy. With a reduction of the public burden on the country. These are numbers, this is the result of the economy, this is not the result of the Government that no one mistakenly thinks, this is the result of favourable conditions for the development of the economy in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as Slovenia's recent entry into the European Union, including conjucture movements in our traditional markets and also favourable conditions for the development of the economy created by the Government and this Parliament. There's been a lot of new investments, Mr. Squeakle doesn't remember, but I'll mention one thing. A week ago, we opened up a new heavy-duty compressor in Metal Ravne in one of those companies that, according to his example, is bad, how would you say, withdraw or say non-economic withdrawal of the state. The company's making progress, it's hiring. The Slovenian steel industry has opened up about 200 new jobs and I believe that today they are not a problem of jobs, the biggest problem is quality, productive jobs, which is today the problem. And that is why our actions are aimed at this. Yesterday, I opened a new production line very close to this Nitrogen Plant Ruše, where my employer told me that there were no workers to work without getting them. That's the problem today. Today is not a problem of jobs; today, in a number of sectors, people are prepared for work. And so once again, I say that we will make every effort to have a new story, a more promising story, in the area of the Nitrogen Plant Ruša. And that's the only thing that can help these people there. And please don't go on some trips with some Iskraemec and I don't know what, because it's not a topic, Iskraemecco, but I already said, Iskraemeco is on a developmental milestone, it goes from mechanical counters to electronic counters, which he should probably have done years ago, leaves a part of production that is labor-intensive and is cost-effective and goes to new modern products that he will upgrade with services. And that's the perspective. Less promising production moves to those markets that even receive these less demanding counters. This does not mean, however, that developing jobs are closing down. On the contrary, there is a pressure on the path to development, in my opinion. The board is also working in this direction. But I'm sure there will also be a solution for the unemployed who, for example, as a result of the restructuring of this company.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Please, procedural proposal, ma'am. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u226	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have reproved me when I reacted to the insult of Minister Visiak, who marked MPs and Members for bluffs. He's talking about saying bubbles. I would expect you, as Vice-President of the National Assembly, to protect the dignity of Members and Members who react with different positions. And today, since the 9th century, we have been constantly listening to what an insult is like when opposition Members and Members are explaining or expressing different views than coalitions. Sorry, it's not a bluff! Eurostat data are: Slovenia by share [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u227	Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u228	I told you to apologize to the minister for insulting us. Eurostat data show that Slovenia is third or fourth in the number of temporary jobs. We've come so far. According to the number of women who are employed for a certain period of time, in the first place. If this is a high standard of worker protection, then I really don't know. That we have structural unemployment in older employees, that we have structural unemployment in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u229	Procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u230	the first job seekers. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u231	Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u232	I told you something. And I justify why I request an apology from the Minister. That's not a bluff, that's the data! And the percentage of the unemployed has also been successfully reduced by cleaning records.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u233	Thank you very much. I just want to say that I reacted earlier when I reminded you, not what you were talking about, but when it came to time. When the minister said he was running out of time. I said I'd make the time. That's all. You made your procedural proposal and Mr Minister heard it. We continue the debate. Mr. Puksic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary! It is also my fault that this debate has taken place because I have not voted against the proposal of the opposition Member, Comrade Germić. Actually, I did it for one reason. In view of the statements that my colleague Germič quoted, I said so myself, because I always try to be correct and honest: Is it really so much and so wrong? And if that is true, then let there be an opportunity for us to hear this and to hear from the minister the answers to that. Well, and of course, I was wrong. Minister, I'm sorry, but that's right. Colleagues and colleagues, years or so after their independence, there were approximately 2,400 people in Ruša. Of course, since 1992, up to four years ago, this number has decreased dramatically. It's already very fast for about 700 people. Where were you guys when it went down from 2,400 to 700? At that time, colleague Germič, the governments were led by your party chiefs and your political parties and of course "a la" such as are there from the other side, Squeaks and so on. You know what you were doing back then? During those years, you adopted the Act on measures to remedy the economic situation of TAM Maribor, d.d., and its subsidiaries and automontage of AM BUS, d.o.o., Ljubljana. You know what you wrote in there? You've made over 20 million state funds out of the budget. For what? To keep your jobs. What's left today? What's left half a year after it says here in this law that you've adopted, what's left of it? Nothing. The money's been stolen. That's all that's left. And of course, because you have done so or your gentlemen have done so at the time, now you want to do a good job, and for proper work you also want to inspire some of the mistakes you made at the time to this government, which has only been correcting for four years what happened in the sixties. But in four years she's done a lot of things, and in the next four she's going to do more, and by twelve years, I'm kind of sure she's going to get things green. Immediately after this sale Ruš was established TDR Metalurgy, which went to the fund. And the fund "sold" certain things, and the fund got 30 million marks from this Metallurgy. That's what it says because it was those numbers back then. So 15 million euros. What will he do with these 15 million euros? Yeah, he put them back in TDR Metallurgy. But no, not by any means, so of course he disinvested Metallurgy and invested in Livarno Vuzenica, then, I don't know, Slovenj Gradec and so on and so on. From 2001 to 2004, when he became the owner of this electricity first Eles and then HSE, you and your gentlemen produced 1.2 billion SIT losses. What else did you do? Mrs Kalšek, Minister, I do not think it is right for her, too, because Mrs Kalškova has once done a restructuring programme, now and obviously this lady is not the best choice. She's been doing other things, and apparently she's not doing well. It would be time to show her some kind of door. But, Mr. Germich, you brought the director, Mr. Kokal. Mr Kokalj is said to be known as a great director. Yes, under your government, you didn't ask anything back then, from where you're from home, your people are, nothing of interest to you. I hear Mr Kokalj is very well known as a great manager. Jelotechne Maribor - today works well, Lesna Slovenj Gradec, was director of the ironworks, said to have left very good results also in Paloma, and so on. Please, you've never been interested in anything. This whole thing could've gone away. It is true, however, that at that time, Mr Germič, eight people had individual contracts and the workers were on minimum wages. And because of all this, this government has just tried to do everything that can be done. To that poor Tink he sold - poor Tink, because I don't cry for him, he probably doesn't need a bun, but, however, this Tajnko sold anyway, you know, those Prepositions for 3.5 million euros, he gave two million euros to pay for something -- some loan that your former director Kunstel hired for some modular programs that were never executed. Where's that money? Where's that money? 1.2 million euros was paid for electricity and so on. There was Mrs Kalškova in the supervisory council, and there was a Mr Pecklar. I don't know if he's his son now, or is he the one who's in LDS underage? And what else did he do? Calcium carbide sold for 3.8 million, 2 and a half million was for HSE's power failure, and a million to cover old losses, to raise the electricity that happened, and so on. And in the end, this government made such a deal with this China that it had to give EUR 6 million in the guarantee. Even today there's 3.3 million euros on the bank, waiting, standing. And like the minister said, if things don't go any further, I hope that we can find a solution to this, hopefully, heartily, and HSE and the government and the minister and everyone, I believe, are working together to bring the story to an end. But if they don't, the workers won't stay on the road, or they won't run out of money. But the money stayed. That is why I am sorry that I supported this debate and, on the other hand, I am not. Let the Slovenian public know that you've "fixed" it for 10 years, but it can't be fixed in four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Germich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is difficult to answer after a good five-hour discussion of such accusations, and this Member, whom I am sure he has not listened very carefully to the whole discussion. I apologize, but I will repeat it again, and I am sure that you can say about this, either you, Minister or a representative from the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, what this investment meant, which Mr Pukšič was talking about in the Legur framework, i.e. in the induction furnace, and how it is doing today. How Legure assesses this investment in the new company. So we don't talk on average. I've already explained that this is about data on average. And never, if you check my statements when I'm in Rush, I never said that TDR Metalurgy is an easy thing, never. And that this is a major problem in how to drive the development of this factory forward. And that, of course, the strategic partner for this company is very important. We only asked: How is it possible that such a strategic partner has been chosen to make such decisions after the sale of Holding that brought this factory to bankruptcy? That was a key question. I regret that today we are deliberating like this and that it is possible for anyone to regret that he supported this debate and that he must then, in his excuse, cut the average to create a better impression, say, again with a minister I may know that he was very incoherent with those Members who might have allowed the debate to take place. But I appreciate that this debate has been useful, and I also appreciate that you will make commitments from this debate, Mr Minister, that you will do everything possible to enable better status for people and that you are looking for solutions that will look for a perspective for this company.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u238	Two references. Mr Member, I don't need a better impression on the Minister, because I am autonomous and I work with my head. Secondly, what you said was true is that I didn't listen to the debate. I was at the funeral of my fellow Member's father. But it's true that I've been preparing for this debate for at least 10 hours and I've read a huge amount of material in which I've been tracking all this and unfortunately, I really had to tell you in a very short time. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, you have 21 seconds. No, it's not. I'm sorry, no more. Does he want a word with the government's representative? Mr. Minister? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u240	Once again, this was said in a final speech by Mr Germić, that with some decisions we have, say, brought the case to bankruptcy. I have to be the sharpest, most determined denying. The company's business was in the hands of the owner, who also bought the company. All business decisions were his. In its best faith, the Slovenian power plant also cooperated with it in its decisions and agreements on the disposal of unnecessary assets, while ensuring in those same agreements all the obligations assumed by the buyer through the sale contract. So, TD Ruše's business was in the hands of the new owner with all the authorities he had and part of these bodies were also represented by workers. Workers of the Nitrogen Plant Ruše have been more involved in decisions than I am talking about a representative who was a member of the Supervisory Council, not workers as a group, but those of their individual representatives, as well as Holding the Slovenian Power Plants, not just our ministry. Therefore, of course, we cannot, honourable Member, assume the responsibility that the matter has gone where it is. However, we are prepared to resolve the matter properly to the people who have suffered the most in my opinion. And so once again, I say that, not that we will do anything, we have already done, we have also submitted a proposal, a solution to this issue to the bankruptcy manager. And I believe that this will be the most important gesture that we can make in this case, of course, with another activity - it is that there will also be a future manager, one who will open up prospective jobs on this complex, even in this light today I have already had an interview with the mayors, I will have tomorrow and there is some interest in this. We will therefore do our utmost to remedy this situation and to provide people with a better future.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u241	Thank you very much. This makes the list of debaters exhausted and everyone who wanted a word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? I'm guessing yes. Check-in is on. Four Members and Mr Minister have applied. Five minutes each available. Mr. Anton Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u242	In these accounts, rather, the answers to very clear questions, today and also in the past, when it comes to this, the Minister is actually mixing some things. That is, when we ask him why it was necessary, and he was also the President of the Supervisory Council, and so on, why it was necessary to sell this company, three months after that to give their consent to what they had in their option, but rather to do so through one of their intermediaries. They don't have a lot of attention for that. But I want to know in particular: what is the proposal to the bankruptcy manager you just spoke about? How, in what way will these workers be saved, and who will pay for it? This is essential, because in the meantime, in the debate you said several times that it would be Holding, that the state would take care of these people. But we sold, you sold some state property, they sold, you put the heat in the middle, directly, whatever, you were familiar with everything. I will not say that you have withdrawn from the supervisory council, as one of the Members said before me, I believe that this has been a far-reaching work and, at the same time, is unnecessary. Nor do I believe that you have withdrawn from the supervisory board in the same way as the Secretary-General of the Government withdrew when he began to burn under his feet in Istrabenz, but he was pulled out when it came to the so-called tycunization of which you spoke much. I don't believe that that's why you withdrew from the Supervisory Board, so that you wouldn't be asked as Chairman of the Supervisory Board later, why you gave your consent to sell in this way. But it will be very difficult for you, Minister, to put yourself before the public in statements that speak for themselves. You sell the matter for EUR 229 000 511, it comes to your table in a month - I know exactly, the owner is the one who worked to propose solutions and so on. And he controlled who else was? Yeah, sure, who else? But you gave it to him, and I don't believe it's possible to make a proposal within one month if you want, for bankruptcy or for restructuring or for anything else. But the purpose was obviously a long, long time earlier defined. And by known means, by known methods, this has also been sold. Anyway, in the end, there's a difference that went somewhere. At least there are workers, at least there are municipalities, and at least there are countries, citizens and taxpayers. So once again, what is this proposal that you have made? Who will pay for it, and how much will it cost taxpayers? Because even if Holding Slovenian Power Plants will pay it, it will be through the price of electricity that we pay each month, as it spills over some other things, right, Minister, via Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant or through some other companies owned by the State, that is how it is seen. But the question was very clear and I expect the answer to be at least that clear. Perhaps you should tell the Slovenian public in the end: Why did you go this way and why you did not seek a solution to sell it yourself in the way that this new owner sold it and pulled the difference from this business?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, let me also say a few words for the conclusion, which are words of agreement that from what TDR metallurgy has received a new owner is the key in this is a new owner and a new management. The new owner, as Mr Minister has said several times today, has functioned as envisaged by the contract, as envisaged by the business plan and as demonstrated by the revision of the KPMG. The new owner was just before the project was brought down, and he was stopped. And my judgment is that the project would succeed if HSE, Holding the Slovenian Power Plant did not obstruct it. This is what I am sure of on the basis of all the data I have and I have a number of them, and this is what I have been reading all the time to Holding the Slovenian Power Plants, and that is why they even have a series of my letters in which I have written what my suggestions are and in which I wrote that I want to meet them by sitting with the owner, HSE, the mayor of the municipality, who will suffer from lost jobs and the professional who has written reviews. Five times I have asked for nothing, six times I have written that this is probably a lack of time, that I cannot be accepted and everyone else, the result that one of the directors of HSE is a multiple director, that he is a multiple member of the boards' supervision and that he has to perform in public and that he simply has no time for us. Well, right after I wrote this, there was a meeting with audio A6 or A8 and they came after me in front of Parliament, they took me to HSE, and we moved a little there, and they took me back. Well, that's the HSE attitude, not the minister. I'm saying it's HSE's fault. This is the attitude of HSE towards those who have business with him, who are small and who are totally dependent on this great monopolist who can work with us, for now what he wants. The second thing I have to say is that those who have been under pressure all the time, as the Minister once mentioned, see that in the last letter prepared by Mr. Pozeb sitting there and sent to Parliament, it is also written that Mr. Rezman, the mayor of the Ruše municipality, was the one who keeps pressing for solutions and so on. Really, I admit, I demanded solutions, I demanded that they find solutions and not kill the factory. To this day they have not given a solution, I have not seen it, the only thing I know is that they are proposing, but not in their own minds, that Dr. Zorin suggested to them, they are proposing to fund the bankruptcyer with a loan, that they will repay the severance payments by credit. So, this is the solution I think we'll talk about tomorrow. Mine's different. It is my job to relax these guarantees, to pay the charges with guarantees, to allow the employees to receive the benefits and to enable the bankruptcy manager to make a call, and to buy a new buyer if possible if this "factory" is not possible, but, unfortunately, to sell it, but undervalued and in pieces it will go to all ends and places. What I think I should add to this is tomorrow, I hope so, the day we can only agree. So far, this has failed because of the persistent rejection of all solutions by the HSE leadership. Thank God that one of those who kept rejecting all the solutions had already been resolved, one of the directors of HSE. I hope that the new HSE administration will agree that it is necessary to move on from just making promises, how they will solve things, save workers, even actions and really solve things.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Germich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u246	Thank you very much for the word, Mr Vice-President, once again. I cannot get rid of this feeling and of the measures that have been taken, that of course, if Holding the Slovenian Power Plants had a significantly more responsible attitude towards this company, so that of course the decisions I, Mr Minister, will say this and I will say this for such a long time for a simple reason because I do not get the answers I have given you. [[...]] Because I don't understand why Holding agreed to sell out two vital parts, and you mentioned to me earlier the investments that were scheduled for these vital parts. You listed them, but I don't think you counted them all. Because if you have to do something on these objects, I think the numbers are a little too low. But let us allow and, of course, it is still irresponsible for me today, why and where was the story that you suddenly stopped the sale of this property. The guarantee would have stayed. Guarantees did not need to be released if you held job guarantees. It doesn't make any sense here. And however we disagree with Comrade Rezman, we agree here that Holding the Slovenian Power Plant has shown a less interested attitude if I use a very mild word. You promised me today that if we asked for these documents, you'd give it to me. Let's see this appreciation to see these differences between the values that have been assessed in relation to the one for which the assets have been sold, how they were valued, how the buildings, land, stocks of material, raw materials have been assessed, and so on, so that we can get a real picture of what the share of the assets was then actually sold, and whether you can dissuade any suspicion of non-economic behaviour and damage to social property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Much has been heard today in this debate, and I regret to say that the speaker of this debate has not offered the truths and the facts, but has offered many truths and half-truths. And, as the President of the Republic has recently said, Mr Danilo Türk, the placement of half-truths, is already a semi-truth, morally rejected act. And there's been a lot of half-truths. I must say, they have been crying jobs here, which is right, but those who have been crying over the past 12 or 14 years have done nothing. By the way, I know the Ruše Nitrogen Factory. As a chemist, I worked with her until 1996, especially since I was head of the Police Department, Korund is the main raw material, made of clay. And I must say that you are the one, and Mr. Squeakle was talking about lost permanent jobs, from 2004, you brought 700 jobs before this government came to that territory. And how it started - it sold the best things first. I'm not saying those gases were probably as well sold as they were, but that was what was carrying money and what was flourishing. I'm sure Korund was a conspiracy. You couldn't do it. It was a loss. As soon as he took him for the treasurer Treibacher of Austria, he blossomed, not in the white corundum, in the white, in the normal corundum. The white corundum would have brought a lot more money, and they used to make a white corundum, a rare one in Europe. And there was a conspiracy in the back, certainly, under the rule of the LDS. And you've spent a lot of other parts on Slovenia. I'm not saying, they're working now, too, they're not guilty, but at the time you weren't a psychiatrist for jobs, you weren't a psychiatrist for national interest. The whole factory could survive the way it is. But these plans were made by you who are reading today. You! Well, not just that. And I have to say that today's factory can only be solved with clever plans, because this production is "large," and luckily, it can run these ovens and be saved. I have also received a number of information, but not from the mayor who is critical to Mr Germić, and rightly critical to Mr Germić, but not from the minister, but through people who are technologists, experts, and know things and also the economy of Rush. And it's not the truth you're talking about here. It's not! On the side where you throw forward, there are significantly more guilt, substantially more guilt and bad intentions, just now, of course, you're throwing these things out. The only thing I don't agree with is the minister's naivety that Mrs Kalšek has placed as head of the sales team, twice in the Talum. She, he didn't know that - our mistake, because we didn't warn him - works for only one member of Forum 21 in the Talum, specifically for that. The minister didn't know that. And that's why I don't trust these plans in principle, because there's fraud in the back, probably. So write down, if anything is wrong, the lion's share of the blame on yourself and you do not deceive the Slovenian public with such. You weren't interested in the workers, I'm afraid. Unfortunately, you were not interested, and in fact this government has made ruins for workers in Slovenia huge. But you brought this country and the jobs and the workers and the farmers and everything. There is also a clear word to be said here. In this way, it is fortunate that this power of yours has been interrupted because otherwise Slovenia would have gone down, but now it is in good condition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, I'm sorry, I haven't given you my word yet. I'll tell you first. Mr Friend and Mr Gulič have a procedural proposal. However, I must say that there are no replicas or procedural proposals at the time we have now, which has been divided due to the remainder of the time. That is why I will allow or give you my word when Mr Minister is done, and let us conclude this debate. Then you will be given the floor to make your two procedural proposals. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u250	Members and Members of the Commission [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u251	Excuse me! Mr. Anderlich, I'm not ashamed to do anything like that. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] If it's a mistake, I can make a mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u252	Dear Members and Members! Dear Mr. Germich, proposer of this item. When I listened to you so easily how easily you accused here in the end, but also in the meantime, Holding the Slovenian Power Plant, none of you knows how much money each year Holding the Slovenian Power Plant gave this company that the company was operating at all. I told you, at the annual level, about EUR 4 million. For EUR 4 million, the Russian Nitrogen Factory was cheaper to buy electricity than was the market price at the time. This was because the Nitrogen Plant Ruše was a subsidiary of Holdinga and because Holding was not actually established to deal with metallurgy. Holding Slovenian Power Plants was established to connect electricity producers, for some better marketing of this energy and for new investments in the Republic of Slovenia. If you do not believe this to me, ask the previous Director of the Holding of the Slovenian Power Plant, who was under the previous mandate, who is an expert in this field, and he will tell you the same. It's just a fact. And today, talking over Holding, if what a stepmother he was, it's kind of unfair, to say the least. Because if we were to declare some economic principles, it would probably crash this company, just as it crashed through this period, of course, when the number fell by 2,000 and something at the end over 200. So Holding is not a metallurgical company and because you're saying why this happened - because Holding wanted to disinvest all of these investments, find a new development program. That's the only reason. Holding had no development program for TDR Metallurgy Ruša. He didn't! That's why he was looking for a strategic partner who would have this program and he found it in the only bidder who offered a timely and complete offer. This provider has committed itself to maintaining jobs, this provider has committed itself to new investments, has lodged guarantees for this purpose, and according to the valuation message available to Members, if you wish, you can get it, of course, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you will also read it. The audit has shown, it is said, that there have been some speculations here, that there has been some kind of, I don't know, strange exploitation from the sale of unnecessary assets - where is this money, who made the difference, was spoken here by Mr Anderlich. The audit showed that the purchase of unnecessary property ended in paying off the debts of this company, which, of course, the buyer also took over at the time of purchase, took over the debts and therefore sold the unnecessary assets to pay these debts to enable it to function. No one made a difference anywhere, and that's what KPMG's audit says. That's a fact. One more thing. You asked me how and who will pay for the employees of the department. Holding the Slovenian Power Plant has proposed that, due to the cancellation of guarantees due to non-compliance with contractual obligations, in particular due to the failure to meet the contractual length of employment for the fact that it is a source of funds, this is essentially its money. This is the money guaranteed by the buyer to meet the contractual obligations. It's not tax money, let's say. This was guaranteed by the buyer to fulfil his obligations, and this would be the money from which to pay the employees' resignations. Because he did not meet this condition, and therefore this is a correctional proposal which, according to the logic of the matter itself, will not cost taxpayers anything. And the solutions, as stated by Mr Rezman in renewing guarantees or in returning guarantees. This solution would have been based on the point of view [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Holding experts, and also under the Ministry's legal service, also violated the principles applicable in such cases and could result in damage to state property, as they would have given up one [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Friend, you have a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u254	Mr. President-in-Office. One and a half hours, at least, we speak or listen to some in the half - hall discussion. One dozen, a good dozen Members are here. There's no reals, there's no Lipeks. New Slovenia has one representative [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u255	Mr. Friend. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u256	for the sample, as well [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u257	Mr. Friend, if you'll excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u258	also the United List [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u259	Excuse me. Allow me just one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u260	No, no. [[...]] It's underrated. I'm gonna leave this National Assembly, now, this moment, if you don't get a proper presence here in the National Assembly. We are talking about the biggest place, the place that happened in Styria and the wider Slovenian environment in other companies. And look what this is - a national disgrace! Is that the National Assembly? This isn't the National Assembly. Mr. President-in-Office. Even if you have not given me a word before when it belonged to me, because I have requested a procedural one, I ask you now to order the suspension of the session until we reach at least a half-presence.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Friend. First thing I'd say to you. We didn't get along well before. I thought you wanted to discuss it again, and I wanted to tell you that there is no longer a possible second round in time-sharing. When you came to me, I told you you'd get your word for your procedural proposal. As for the third, as President, I cannot influence this, according to the Rules of Procedure, in order to have Members present in the Chamber, as well as to invite them again from this place, to cooperate, but they have the right, according to the Rules of Procedure, to decide for themselves. Unless there is a vote, they must be present, unless they have an apology. So we're clear on this. It's hard for me to have a meeting outside the empty hall, too. Exactly. I also wonder about the next item, if we are being watched by children or grandchildren now, how many Members will discuss subsidising children's diet in primary schools. I understand, but what I've told you is through the Rules of Procedure. And I said in the microphone and in public that I can't influence Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u262	Our wages are too large to ignore our work and obligations.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u263	Mr. Gulic, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u264	Mr President, in fact, I had a procedural proposal, now that Mr Jerovská is no longer here, but I thought that the National Assembly could still declare him an eternal opposition Member, give him this honourable title to calm down once, but [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, what do you want?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u266	I want to tell you what [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u267	Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u268	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u269	Then please tell me, I did not understand from your smile that this was the case.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u270	Mr Vice President, you have made a mistake, which you yourself have confessed, and I only find that this is clearly the manner that DeSUS introduces in this country, that you make mistakes and ignore the Rules of Procedure and everything. You have to procedurally give when the proposal is made, not later, half an hour and I don't know when. That's all. But if you don't want to, it's really not right to follow so blindly - yes, because there are no more - to this SDS, which dictates everything past the Rules, past the rules that you get under it. Your minister has almost taken on this manner, I believe you will not continue to do so, but you yourself said, "I have made a mistake and it is right to make a mistake," I think it is wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u271	I didn't make the mistake of explaining it, and I'm still behind it. As far as your teaching is concerned: Thank you very much, you do not link the management of this meeting to either DeSUS or the Minister of Defence or perhaps anything else. Thank you. Please, Mr Andrelich, take little consideration as an elder to behave in the manner that is necessary in these dishes. Thank you very much. That's what I'm saying. I've completed my previous agenda and I've made a mistake. We're moving to 28. Agenda item - First defence proposal of the Food Subvention Act in primary schools under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Mr Srečko Friends. Mr. Friend, even though there are eight of us sitting in the hall, please welcome us to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u272	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dearly-respected, very nice greetings, representatives of the Ministry, Secretary of State! It is quite embarrassing that we have such low current participation, I believe that this is a bad light for the National Assembly, especially when we are considering subsidising the diet of children and adolescents in the primary and pre-school education systems. But if I may say so. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party was that it was necessary to introduce a law on food subsidies in primary schools, in particular after we also called on the Government to make this bill, which was supported by a large majority, this law on the subsidisation of the student diet, complete and complete this gap, this hole that was created, and this injustice that arose to primary school children, was filled with its law, but the government did not have the right response and also the response to our initiative was delayed, so that we had to do it ourselves because we promised it. You can tell me today that as a proposal I am proposing something that will cost taxpayers €80 million. But let me say at the same time, in the same breath, that we are making 600 million euros easy for war compensation. And the entire section of expertise in the Republic of Slovenia was a unified opinion, and a uniform assessment was made that the best and most rational way to correct inadequate nutrition was to plan a well-organised school diet. In the Republic of Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, there are 448 primary schools and 30 schools for children with special needs. A total of 163 thousand 424 students attend the primary school program. The law provides that all children attending primary school and primary school with special needs are entitled to a subsidised diet which has been determined after a request has been made and has been granted this in the school world. This is underestimating for us, and from this title we have also decided to submit this law. In fact, children attending primary school also have to leave their actual poverty in the family, the social situation to the detriment and judgment of the school councils and the school council to decide whether the family is poor enough to receive a subsidy or not. In the division and the bill we also wrote that there is almost no school in Slovenia to subsidise more than 50% of this diet. And the fact is that all elementary schools in Slovenia already have so-called school kitchens, which are also in accordance with the laws prescribed by international hygiene minimums and international standards, are regimes defined in HA, CC, AP standards. In short, it is possible for all primary schools to organise this diet in the manner set out in the bill, since administrative and technical conditions already exist. School diet in accordance with the rules on subsidisation of school nutrition in primary schools means organised diet. And of course, organized diet means three meals. And I am deeply convinced that if we adopt this law today, that we will actually make it possible for the vast majority of students who are not being fed in the right way today, to actually have a better path to health, and in some ways we will also allow them to develop better. Of course, there are many families who do not ask for help, for the poor are usually the proudest. Therefore, you need to listen today and confirm, if you have a hint of conscience, this proposal that we have given you on the bench. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u273	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Please, Mrs. Magdalena Svertz, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u274	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting also on behalf of the Ministry of Education! We have studied the law and we can find that primary school nutrition is regulated by two laws today, namely, the first is the Basic School Act, which requires each primary school to organise at least one meal. And then there's the second law, the ZOFVI, which imposes subsidisation of school nutrition. Taking a closer look at what this means in practice, this means that approximately 36.43% of the country's students are subsidised by a school diet of 0.55 euros and an average school meal of 0.77 euros. This is the first subsidy covering around 6 million and a half currently in the budget. Then the second payment provided by the State to schools is that all schools offering lunch pay them in fact also the labour force or chefs, as well as the organised school diet, which is an additional 5.5 million. And if we add that up, we see that today's contribution to school meals is about €14 million, and that's why parents pay for lunch less. In addition, the Ministry regularly provides education for school food organisers and also for the education of chefs. In addition, many professional literature has been published, various guidelines are being prepared and professional food is being prepared, so we can say that primary school nutrition is also very well prepared, guided and targeted from the point of view of professionalism. But of course, when it comes to whether we can do even more, we have also studied things at the Ministry and we see that this system, existing, can actually be upgraded meaningfully. Today we know that about 35% of children also enjoy lunch, attend school lunches, and this service is paid in full by parents today, which means a total economic price. The step that we see to make is to make the country take over the payment of labour for those meals that they are also preparing for lunch, while at the same time it is necessary to examine the increase in the subsidy so that those socially disadvantaged students who today receive the subsidy mainly for lunch can then also be increased for lunch. If we take these measures, which we also stand for, then we see that we do not really need a change in the law, because it is enough to amend the rules of regulations and systematisation. This is somehow a proposal for reflection, which the Government is also proposing to discuss today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u275	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Marjetka Uhan has the floor on behalf of the NSI Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u276	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello to all those of us left behind for the sample, as my friend Friend said. Nor are they more than for a sample, given that the applicants would expect the entire group of Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u277	There are 33% of us. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u278	The proposed legislation on subsidising nutrition in primary schools states that they want to systematically regulate the diet of children in primary schools, as students do, and as students will have after this year's passed law on student diet. The proposer proposes a $2.42 subsidy together for lunch and lunch. The aim of the candidates is not bad, but it is not comparable to the other two laws concerning students or students. In Novi Slovenije we were co-signed by the law on student nutrition, not only because of the level of resources needed, that is 2.42 euros, with which we will allow all secondary school students a warm meal during school, but mainly to organize at school during their stay, during school, a sufficiently long break one normal meal needed for a high school student. Many secondary vocational schools did not have this concern to enable pupils to eat normally, to pay no attention to it, and I believe that some schools are now having problems with this because they have to arrange it by autumn. In Novi Slovenija we supported the law on diocese diet and would never agree to the vouchers such as students have or that students would be left to eat after the inn this afternoon when it is time to go home. Money isn't the only factor. It is also important to organise a meal as it relates to the composition of the meal itself as well as the offer itself, which will consist of meeting the minimum needs of a young person to be regular, every day, that it is during the morning or during the course of the study and that food habits are also taught in this way. Healthy nutrition, regular and correct is essential and essential for the development of children and in this regard basic schools need commendation compared to other schools. All primary schools have organised school kitchens that offer all children lunches and almost all primary schoolchildren have lunch, over 96% and almost half of the children have lunch. In primary schools, the Ministry pays a cook to prepare lunches, a certain proportion of the school food organiser, a meal is subsidised. More than a third of children have a subsidized lunch. There are also half of the students who receive subsidies according to their social status. In Nova Slovenija we believe that nutrition in primary school from our knowledge is well organized. And that's what the data suggests. Because virtually all children eat at school at least once or twice a day. School food organisers, schools are aware of the importance of nutrition, highlight the possibility of subsidising, give special attention to healthy recommended meals and so on. Nevertheless, we believe in New Slovenia that there is something else that can be improved to make these meals even more accessible to all children, that is to say cheaper. I'm sure there'd be more interest after lunch. It is necessary to find sources of funding - whether it is a country, whether it is a local community, both possible, as is the case in many of our neighbouring countries, which have a significantly less organised primary school diet, until, for example, in Germany they are carrying a snack just from home. In most of the countries shown, the law does not concern primary school nutrition only in the country, but in most cases it is also co-financed by local communities. There is probably another case in Slovenia, in addition to the one mentioned in the law. The marriage is liked, we can say in Novi Slovenija, and it is difficult to throw it away. It should be improved, supplemented if necessary. We believe that there is a need to complement the rules that speak towards organising, financing meals, so that they are cheaper, quality and accessible to all the children they need. That they need a little breakfast that comes early, it's clear, everyone needs a snack. But I do believe that not all have lunch because probably many, those who have already left by bus at half an hour, have more or less lunch at home. In Novi Slovenija, we always try to ensure that primary school is free. School policy is also moving in this direction. For the time being, free textbooks, we hope, will also be free workbooks and similar tools, because maybe we wouldn't need all of them if someone took a serious look at what children wear in school bags. Of course, free school also raises the question of free nutrition - who, as far as it should participate, will have to be settled in the future. We believe that there is something else to be done here, as stated by the Secretary of State, for example, the payment of lunch cooks by the Ministry, perhaps by the local communities of the payment of food raw materials or material costs. This would also make it easier to implement the food resolution and support domestic food producers while ensuring quality food supply. The opportunities for a better, cheaper and affordable diet for primary schoolchildren are great, but not at this point in the opinion of New Slovenia, the law required already makes this possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Drofenik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished Secretary of State, a lovely greeting! In the Slovenian People's Party, we advocate the view that every child must be given the best opportunity to enter a single life and the opportunities for sustainable development. The path of each child to independence is actually beginning with entry into kindergarten, especially with access to primary school. It is certainly possible to agree with the applicant's arguments in the introduction of the law that healthy and regular nutrition is also important for the development of children and young people. Even in the Slovenian People's Party we advocate for the healthiest possible diet of all inhabitants, especially children and young people who are still developing and need sufficient varied and, above all, healthy nutrition. That is why we always support the measures and legislation that supports these principles and guidelines. We supported the resolution on the national food policy programme 2005-2010, which entered into force in 2005. We also supported the law on the subsidisation of diocese diets, which until recently were the only ones with nothing regulated in the food field. I would also say that before the elections it is very popular and effective to propose such laws as this before us. Despite the principle of support for the content of the bill, however, the question is whether this law also has a real basis to be realized in the proposed way. In primary school nutrition, it should be taken into account that primary school nutrition is already regulated. All elementary schools in Slovenia are already providing pupils with morning lunch and lunches, but they solve these matters differently, so it is likely that this will be arranged in the same way across Slovenia. The Rules on the Subsidisation of Student Nutrition in Primary Schools provide that funds are provided from the State budget to subsidise school meals for pupils who cannot afford to pay a full lunch due to the social situation of their parents. There are between 35% and 40% of these students after primary school. This percentage depends on the power of the environment, if I am not mistaken, I think this is Rule 4 of the Rules, the percentage of unemployment in the congregation, the amount of gross personal income in the congregation and other specifics in the congregation. As a rule, funds are intended to subsidise school meals and may also be used to subsidise other meals. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we believe that it would be appropriate for all children to have at least a favourable price of lunch in primary school, for the second meal, for the second meal, and for the second meal, the State to try to offer as much food as possible, for all children to be equally accessible and that parents or students should be able to decide as much as possible to benefit from this food. It is interesting here also the experience of individual primary schools that even if you offer a full or very favourable lunch, there are certain, at least I know rural environments where in no case will more than 35.40% of parents decide that children have a diet in school. This is especially so because the family situation is arranged in such a way that they come home relatively early and are home for a family lunch. So it probably wouldn't have worked out. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the Government's proposal, which was presented here, does not even need to be resolved by law, but by complementing the rules, with additions to the systematisation of primary schools, where the staff - or employees - in the area of kitchens would increase and thus systematically lower the cost of food, I think they would lead in the right direction. And I think it would be appropriate, this is the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, that the Government is working in this direction and is trying to systematically regulate these matters as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr Srečko Friend has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Mr President. I don't know if it makes any sense that we're discussing this today, but still. The emissary salary for those of you who are looking at us is very good. Some also receive €4,000 net and are not here today. New Slovenia, which speaks of the family and the sanctity of the family, only takes them as a sample, Zaresa is not, the ruling party [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u283	Mr. Friend. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u284	It represents I have the right to say a summary [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u285	You have no right to do that. You have the position of the Group of Members, and please do so. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u286	It's my view that it's embarrassing that there's almost no one in this marriage. I understand, however, that primary schoolchildren do not have the right to vote and that this may be irrelevant. Respectable. A similar proposal for a law on food subsidies in primary schools has already been tabled in the parliamentary procedure in 2003. The adoption of this law, which would fully subsidise nutrition in primary schools, would be necessary, in particular now and at a time when we can monitor the high level of inflation and the price of normal living costs. There is an increase in the socially weak layer, which, of course, is not wanted by anyone in the National Assembly. We in the Slovenian National Party on 21 March 2008 have introduced a law on food subsidies into the procedure, and with this bill we want to systematically regulate nutrition in primary schools, as has already been said. When considering the law on subsidising dioceses on 1 February 2008, the parliamentary group orally and in writing warned the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that when this law is passed, they create new injustices and leave open gaps in this particular area, which we are trying to resolve today with the missing legislation. At the same time, we have announced that if the Government itself does not prepare an appropriate law or legal proposal, the Slovenian National Party will do so. On 6 February, I addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a written initiative to draft legislation to subsidise nutrition in primary schools. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, under the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is obliged to respond to the parliamentary initiative within 30 days. This deadline expired on 6 March. We gave the government a chance and waited until the end of the third week in March to submit our proposal. We did not fulfill our promise until March 21st, and we did. Don't let anyone see the populism! I've called on the government twice, three times, four times to eliminate this injustice. Because today we have this law, which systematically regulates this social issue as well, I would like to say that it is a bad excuse for the government to say that it spends €14 million on primary school food subsidies. We have calculated that we need them to solve the whole 79 million problem. To make no mistake, once again, if not for the record, you will spend 600 million euros to compensate for the damage to war violence, better said to patriots somewhere in Argentina or other countries. That won't be a problem! Speaking of subsidies already in force today, let me tell you that no municipality subsidizes more than 50% of primary school diet: Ajdovščina 31%, Benedict 31%, Bled 26%, Braslovča 36%, Brdo 31%, Church in Gorenjska 23%. In short, what's going on is that I won't mention it. Poor municipalities that have little money and depend solely on funding from the state budget, of course, have no money for it. And it is in these municipalities that the biggest social problem is, and usually these municipalities have the lowest dose of food subsidies in primary schools. And you're saying that this fertilization is arranged. Shame! I understand that you rushed by subsidising the student diet because there are students there all year long and, of course, they will give you a voice. At the same time, let's say we are listening from New Slovenia to how to care for the family, because they are Christian-oriented - today we only have here for a sample of representatives of New Slovenia; and of course we will not receive support in this law. Many of the representatives of the parties are not even in the National Assembly - they will talk about social issues tomorrow. It's about feeding our children. And if you're going to want to use them, in your own words, "spare," then "spare." We said what we thought and what we wanted it to be arranged for. We have also warned and given the opportunity to let the government handle this. In this recent period, the government has been generously sharing candy and promising people this and that, but look, there have also been great injustices, and it is this government that is also responsible for 230,000 people on the brink of poverty living today. That's official information. And in these numbers there are many families that have more children and perhaps even proudly do not want to ask primary school whether it will subsidize their primary school diet or whether they are entitled to it. And you leave it to school councils to discuss which family is rich enough or poor enough to receive a subsidy. I would like to draw attention to another aspect of this matter. This is that speculativeness in Slovenia is a regular habit in addition to being speculative, in addition to being unsatisfying, in addition to contentiousness. And it is here that those who are profiting, who are living in a separate family relationship, yet live together and display single mothers with multiple children, one or two, and apply both social allowances and supplements in these segments, which the State is still subsidising under 14 million. However, I would like to say that those who are truly poor and those who are too proud to apply for a subsidy, including for free lunch or lunch in primary school. And that's what Slovenia forgets. But don't forget, of course, I'm going to use the word "Rome" on purpose, don't forget those who came to Slovenia to live because they thought it would be easier to get a job here. You are consciously forgetting this population. I don't know why, but - well, if this is the goal of this government, then so be it. I believe this law will not be passed. You will all talk about how good he is, how desirable he is, how nice and necessary it would be for this to be handled in the next term, but when the €79 million approval keys are pressed, these wishes on your part will not be positive. Respected and respected! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia replied to my question that what do we want in the Slovenian National Party, because the country is paying the chef. This is a summary, a summary of the answer. Today we have heard that the Basic School Act and the ZOFVI provide for a sufficient subsidy to be paid by the State budget to primary schools amounting to EUR 14 million. €14 million is just one week of what we need. Well, if the government estimates that 163,000 424 children are enough, then so be it. Of course, we will also draw attention to this in the second term. But what we want to say is that if you've taken care of the students, which is right, and here we have given our actual voice to it, and for the students you've given them exactly 2.4 euros, then do it for the elementary school. It would be nice if we had the same vats and the same criteria, but not just looking at the benefits of the electoral year coming, and sharing candy and candy with those who can bring something to you. Today's response by Members in this Chamber points to the serious work of this National Assembly. It is not in your pride, Madam President, that you are running this assembly at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u288	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Education and Sport! Although it is a late hour, it is still worth paying some attention to the Proposal for a Law on Food Subsidisation in Primary Schools proposed by the Slovenian National Party. Well, many of you will remember that in this assembly and in this mandate of the National Assembly we have often discussed concerns and solutions, improvements in nutrition in recent times, we have also adopted legislation on nutrition in secondary schools, including nutrition in kindergartens. In short, we had many, many lunches, many times we had lunch, of course, in a translated sense, in terms of proposals to improve the situation in this area. Well, we passed a law a long time ago that would provide a similar standard for secondary schools as early as September 1st this year. With regard to nutrition in primary schools, however, it is necessary to follow what is respected by the State Secretary, Dr. Sverčev, who has already laid down: a series of legal bases which in some ways are quite fitting in the field of nutrition in primary schools. If you compare the diet of students who are specific because they are young adults who are independent, usually stay outside the home, lectures are arranged throughout the day, so that the diet of students is much less appropriate than is appropriate, for example, diet in primary schools today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that there is a step to be taken in the area of regulation, the final system of nutrition in primary schools. Here I would like to recall what has already been exposed here today by the Ministry of Education and Sport, but the next step is ready for an even better diet in primary schools. According to the Ministry of Education and Sport, it also subsidises school nutrition, as was said, for 36.43% of students. The average amount of subsidisation is 0.55 euros per student, the subsidy is generally intended for a school meal and may also be granted for other meals. The proposal for a law on subsidising school nutrition in primary schools provides for nutrition through external providers. In view of the fact that primary schools have adequate infrastructure and staff to prepare and consume food, which is also provided with regular education, we estimate that there is no need for external school food providers. In addition, it is more difficult to control the quality of the diet in such a way, but of course the fact that when the food is loaded and transferred to another location, after the so-called "catering" system is, of course, essentially different from the quality that we serve and eat immediately in the kitchen. As regards this infrastructure in primary schools, it is one of the best organised and best equipped, both in terms of equipment and in terms of staffing. The drafter provides in Article 5 of the Act that primary schools must provide a lunch for the morning and warm children amounting to 2.42 euros and only with the consent of the parents. This solution, in our view, is contrary to the guidelines for healthy nutrition, following the Resolution on the National Food Policy Programme 2005-2010, as the guidelines define breakfast, morning meal, lunch, afternoon meal and dinner, for each meal is defined, recommended or valued also energy intake. Ensuring balanced and properly composed meals is impossible for all children - the law makes it impossible for them to have meals that parents should pay for a different composition. It is, of course, that the disciples would be in a kind of disassociation: a disciple with a disciple. Well, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are convinced that the Ministry of Education is already making important contributions today to the provision of personnel who are employed in food preparation. So for a certain number of children, I think that at 4200 there is one job as a school food organiser, and at every 400 pupils in primary school, the Ministry also provides funding for one cook. Well, and what the representative of the Ministry of Education has proposed today is, in the view of the SDS Group, one of the appropriate solutions that would be applicable to define and amend it in accordance with the applicable laws or regulations. As we say, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we will support all activities that will improve the conditions and way in which basic schools provide nutrition.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Treachery, you have the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u290	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Madam Director, Members and Members of Parliament. Let me speak about the proposed law before I begin, but let me say my position on the apparent presence of Members and Members in the Chamber. It is difficult to accept the obvious if the findings come from a group that is not perfect and if they always come then, of course, understandable, only by the presence, but complete freedom of presence, except in the vote, is also a known freedom of choice. And since I am covering school laws in the Group of Social Democrats, I would like to say that I have never heard of the Member of the Friend before, ever advocate for greater number in the Chamber when we are dealing with school laws. It might be good for those who arrange the consideration of laws to consider that the classification of the treatment of a law in the late evening - if it were spent all the time - should start talking about this law there around ten - is a poor journey for good participation, especially if there is no provision for a vote at the end. Some other very important laws were scheduled for Friday afternoon, for example, and the hall was very empty. This is, therefore, a recommendation that the inclusion and placement of the law on the agenda have sometimes helped to make the presence more or less numerous. Mr Proposer, all the excitement about this is, therefore, superfluous. Now to the bill. We have often discussed nutrition in this mandate and have repeatedly discussed the importance of healthy nutrition and the development of good eating habits, stressing how important it is to start in the earliest childhood with them. That is why we have always thought, and even when we proposed the law on subsidising the student diet, we stressed that we will not oppose the law, but that we believe that it would be much more important to regulate the subsidised diet earlier in primary school. This is not the last thing we have confirmed by proposals for an increase in resources in every budget. We also addressed individual questions and initiatives to the Ministry of Education when we proposed that the public procurement system should not be limited to the need to choose the most favourable provider, since we were aware that integrated food production and organic production is not always the cheapest food. In this regard, at least some voices are now more favourable and it can be seen from the analysis of diet that a number of schools also opt for this type of diet. Food subsidies are particularly important at a time when food prices are increased and then care is taken to ensure that healthy nutrition and constant nutrition are essential, which is not least confirmed by the proposers of this law in the introductory explanation, when they find that, in fact, in the preschool age, when food is best served, the percentage of malnourished children is the lowest. However, the percentage of malnourished children in primary and secondary schools is about the same. Therefore, it would be good to do roughly the same in both cases, and the applicants did so only by equating the amount of the subsidy for primary school and secondary school, while allowing the amount to be spent in primary school either for lunch or for a warm meal. In some primary schools, however, breakfast is also very important. With regard to the subsidised meal, if this option is not given in the first article for breakfast, this is a weakness for us, because at the same time the applicants state that primary schools also provide breakfast, not just lunches and lunches. This Article, however, specifically focuses on morning meals and a daily warm meal, which I believe is lunch. If we had a major concern regarding the subsidisation of the student diet, especially in the early definition of the start of lunch, due to the difficulty of implementing the subsidy, there are many concerns in this regard, at least after the entry into force of this law, it would be better because primary schools already have the opportunity to provide a meal and a large majority of the hot meal. What potential applicants have overlooked is that Articles 12 and 13 are not fully harmonised and it would be good to correct matters here. In their great haste in the preparation of the law, they also misrecorded the secondary school in Article 8 because it is only about primary school. And there would be some sort of thing that needs to be rectified in the future. In particular, in these procedures, how well things will turn out, how individual matters will be carried out, further support will also be expected from the Social Democrats' Group of Members. However, we must say that at least as far as control is concerned, some things may have been better resolved, but we cannot say that the matter is fully realistic and well-realised from the point of view of the division of powers between the State and the local community. The proposal only discusses the amount to be provided by the State, i.e. 4,42 euros per student or student for two meals, as it seems. And this is what the state is supposed to provide. The justification that the local communities are not already subsidising meals in a larger percentage, but above 50 is, of course, a point that needs to be addressed to local communities. Social Democrats believe that caring for an individual in a local community where there is a social picture, not to say in hand, is even more reasonable and justifiable, that smaller municipalities and local communities think with so much care about the social status of families living in the local community and how much care from public resources should be spent on individuals and individuals in the environment for a more sustainable life. This is particularly so because NGOs have warned that the nutrition of children in individual environments is worrying, which they find particularly after the experience with guaranteed holidays when children are not at all willing, at least some of them are most at risk, to return to their home families, because they had a good time on vacation because they had quality meals all day. The problem of child nutrition in individual environments is not so small and negligible as to be possible and should only be linked to demagogies and pre-election times. The analyses and warnings of NGOs are very serious. Therefore, I think it is useful once again, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, to emphasise that if the Government has found agreement on a proposal to subsidise a student's diet, it would be right to do the best that it can to regulate food subsidies in primary school. It's a big deal, but the Social Democrats have always stressed that with the principle of graduality, by starting from elementary school slowly to the older children's age, things will be settled so that for the budget, I will not say "sufferable" but that the resources in the budget would in fact also be provided, which would then be what would be outside of any budget, to anyone who might be able to read pre-election candy. So, if we're already sharing our readings, then we need to divide them left and right. The proposal to subsidise nutrition in primary schools is now such that there is no funding available in this budget, and it is the proponent's responsibility that they will work consistently to encourage the constituents of the following budgets, so that, if this proposal receives support, resources will also be provided in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u291	Mr Aleš Gulič on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u292	Mr. President-in-Office. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, I will also touch the presence and commend all those who are here. But others will be putting bills where they have to be. And with respect to the law, this. Given that the number of age groups in Slovenia is less than the number of parliamentary groups, it is understandable that the SNS has rushed with the bill and has rushed everyone else. So now only infants are available, and some very small preschool children are available to be subsidized to them or to their parents. So, of course, the persecution is that primary schoolchildren are not voters. Of course they are not, but they are their parents, who look even more closely at every euro, cent or whatever they use. The law is preferable because it is the preferred time, and at that time all laws are actually pre-choice. And there's a lot of them. In this session, I think we have a forty-day schedule, which is about 45, 40% higher than the average of the sessions. I don't know how it's gonna be with the July session, but it's probably gonna be full of stuff like this again. This time, the law is prepared by the paraposian Members, according to SNS Members. His investment is not surprising. In fact, we expected this to happen in the wake of a student and then a high school diet. I actually like this one better because it's basically just a subsidy and it's not about determining what and where the kids are going to eat and so on. I would like to remind you of Thomas Jefferson, the third president of the United States, who said that when the state begins to determine what people will eat, drink, and dress, they fall into a state similar to that of slaves before the American war. This must be borne in mind that too much concern is also harmful, as it actually makes very dependent citizens very dependent. In addition, I would recall that the entire mandate of the government, the current government of Janez Janša, when adopting the budgets, was to remind, propose, to try to raise the funds to subsidise nutrition in primary schools and in secondary schools. But that's when we ran into a deaf ear. During this time before the elections, we now regulate a lot of things that went through before, so it's free of charge for another kid in kindergartens, so there's also a good recipe here, first you have to have another baby and then the first one to solve things. Then a subsidized diet for all high school students. Here we have also heard what the children of Members eat, only special salami and dry bread. I'm very concerned about what it's like in those families that are seriously at risk. Then we have "free" vines, in noodles. And some other things. Actually, free lunch isn't. Despite the generous intentions of the bill's proposer, which attempts to fully regulate the diet of Slovenian primary schoolchildren for free or wants two free meals or at least one and a half, if we calculate how many have been eaten and how many have been served, it should be noted that this is sustainable for a short and not medium term. Also, let's say the benevolent government officials with whom they accept this talk to me about it. Now we have only 4% of economic growth, we don't have 6% anymore, we'd go into projects like this now that it was 6%, and when everything pointed to even better results, there was no such will. On the basis of the provisions of this law, as it is, every child attending primary school is entitled to two subsidised meals - morning meal, a daily warm meal. Of course, there's that breakfast for every day of study. I must say that no European country is so generous. None. Even those who boast of taking the most care of their citizens, not only in social terms, but also in burdening their parents, something they say Scandinavians do not know, are not so generous. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are aware of two facts. One fact is that this will mean an additional burden on the state budget. The second is that we should not save money in such actions. Although I must say that I have always had personal concerns when they become very involved in the eating habits of citizens and citizens, regardless of age, if the state and various para-national institutions are involved, because this always means that something is wrong in the food market. There's another interesting thing about this marriage. Suddenly, the law is not as socialally oriented as it is in these interpretations of the introductory provisions, but it also subsidises those who do not need it under any criterion. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will not oppose the law, but we will not scream. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u293	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. My word, Mrs. Majdo Zupan. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u294	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! You can see we're a little tired. And with regard to the obvious presence, I must say that our Group of Members has an entire women's quota, which does not mean that men Members are not interested or concerned. As we discussed and decided on the diet of a student in the National Assembly, we heard that we must do something similar for primary schoolchildren. The Slovenian National Party's Group has rushed forward and has drawn up a proposal in this direction. It must be acknowledged, however, that by the very nature of things, the diet of the primary population is different than that of a student or a student. The organisation itself is different, as they say at the Ministry of Education, where, on the basis of the regulations on standards and standards, they also systematize the place of school food organizer and chef in primary schools. Now a subsidised school diet has slightly more than 36% students, while we have heard that parents pay an economic price for lunches. In the New Slovenia Group we set up - the obvious about the family - we place the family high as a value, thus especially the children. However, this does not mean that we are not prepared to make decisions and make decisions within the framework available to us. We are also aware that the health guidelines have been defined as an important correct and healthy way of eating, especially for children, this means five meals. Which we can't expect the state to do. However, the fact is that the current legislation does not provide balanced and properly composed meals for all children and does not determine the amount of the subsidy on the one hand for lunches and on the other hand for a warm meal separately. The proposal is welcome, as has been said, but I do not think it is complete and the government has shown its willingness to carefully weigh the proposal and place it accordingly. It may not even be necessary to have legislation, but it may be possible to amend the Regulation in certain provisions. However, it seems to me that the financial aspect is important here, but it is not covered in the budget. Therefore, we are also Members of Parliament, and I am afraid that this proposal is too soon and at an inappropriate time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u296	Thank you very much, Mr President. Respected and respected! All primary schools already have so-called technical conditions for preparing these meals, so that the indications I heard earlier that this should be driven or shared by regular food do not hold. In elementary schools in Slovenia, they already offer pupils lunch and lunch in the morning. That's already possible. We've got these plants. When you talk about the fact that we rushed through this law, those who listened to me earlier when I spoke about it on February 1st, when we passed the law on the subsidisation of the student diet for this speaker, I myself represented the position of the parliamentary group, called on the Government to fill this gap, this injustice, which was caused by the fact that, in my opinion, we had arranged the diet in an exemplary manner before, for the students now, and to enable the elementary school structure to do so. Back then, the government was deaf to that ear. On 6 February, we also sent a written initiative on my part to the Government so that it would not be obvious that we did not do so in writing. According to the Rules of Procedure, the Government is obliged to respond to the parliamentary initiative within a certain time limit. And on March 6th, when this deadline had long expired, we received a response, again to the intervention that the Government was paying the chef. On March 21st, we filed this law. So much for this premature procedure. With regard to comparability with other European countries, Mr Gulič, chapter five, the presentation of regulation in other legal systems within the EU is recorded, if read, otherwise judged. I know that some parliamentary groups will support this initiative, consider this law to be well-intentioned and that it will ultimately be too small. We are aware of this in the Slovenian National Party, but let me remind you that you are in the vast majority of the parties present now, some have not been formed at the time, already supported in the previous mandate. Today, the adoption of this law is so much more necessary, because in fact this middle layer, the lower middle layer, the rich are rarely numerous, but they are, and they are extreme, and they have also caused the social status, as I mentioned earlier, to be, 230,000 according to the statistical data maintained by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia is 230,000 people or persons living below the poverty threshold. Taking into account the information I am providing now, then it is imperative that we adopt this law, because the obvious fact that everyone has a subsidised diet does not hold back. On our part, we can say that this is a necessity, because we have also written in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that the primary school is free, and we all know that it is not. It is not simple because families pay for copying the documents that primary schools need or for the documents, that I do not say that lunches in large numbers are obligatory and also lunches, and that breakfasts can be rarely dreamed of, Mrs Potrata. I would expect tomorrow's government party from a future government party, which I hope will not be that participation would be slightly larger than just one representative, if we are talking about it. On our part, if we count as percentages, we're 33% present, and maybe [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] The financial implications for the budget, I have already said that they are essentially sustainable and these 97 million that you are reading to make it difficult to provide, Mrs Potrata, you have stated that it is unrealistic, that we do not have worked out how we will ensure this, I now assure you that it is very easy to find them. [[..]] As I said before, 600 million euros will be earmarked for war compensation to those who, after strangely adopted laws, are now suddenly entitled to these compensations overnight. I believe we can find this money here from this address. Not last time, ladies and gentlemen! These children in Slovenia are 163.424. And on behalf of these, you will also make a decision. As it will be, it will be written on a ballot that we will gladly store and publish in a newspaper, for example, a family.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Marinic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u298	Thank you so much for saying that again. You almost get the feeling that there is a law on Members running tonight, not a law on food subsidies in primary school, but let's just leave it. I think that the matter is much more serious when we take seriously the consideration of some of the proposals that I said in my presentation that we are assessing by the Slovenian Democratic Party as a step towards bringing about the resolution of primary school nutrition and, as such, we support it in terms of efforts to improve the situation. Finally, in her presentation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Sport also outlined certain concrete solutions that should be seriously considered and implemented as soon as possible. Of course, MEPs and Members are most aware of what and when it is possible to adopt a law which, as a result, also entails the provision of funding from the State budget. Any rebalancing to resolve this is the immediate adoption of the law referred to by the proposer with effect from year 1. 1. 2010, if I am not mistaken, the Ministry of Education and Sport is proposing what could happen more quickly and which would also bring positive effects, reduce costs for parents and improve primary school nutrition. We know that today students have lunch, and those who stay in extended stay come to lunch. And if the ministry has been thinking and looking for solutions in this direction, and has found and has also proposed a concrete solution in this sense to cover the costs of this additional cook who would prepare a lunch for the students who remain in the extended stay or otherwise to go to lunch, the ministry will also take over these costs. In his presentation, colleague Marjan Drofenik also outlined some of the facts arising from the care of primary school meals by the municipalities as the founder of primary schools. And here is a special rule, which has a total of 10 articles, but in its essence gives the opportunity to even additionally seek opportunities by further subsidising primary school diets for those of the weakest categories of pupils in primary schools. The special commission at the institution or primary school checks the criteria and the municipality which is the founder also additionally contributes to the socially weak pupils’ additional money. I am sure if we will, but I am sure that on Sunday we will vote on the provincialisation of Slovenia, that we will then be much easier, much more transparent, to do so within our own province. There are also many options for this area, much better and even cheaper ways to provide primary school nutrition for primary school students. However, as regards infrastructure in primary schools with regard to food preparation and distribution, it should be recalled that in recent times this government, as well as the previous government, has been quite successful in this area and that infrastructure in primary school is one of the exemplaryly regulated ones. And in this sense, in my presentation of the SDS Group's position, I touched on the proposaler, who in fact gives outside operators the opportunity to prepare food in primary schools, which reminds me of the provision we have adopted with regard to the Diagnostic Diet Act. I think there's one rule there that gives this opportunity. I am convinced that there is a positive solution to the proposaler's efforts. I also commend the proposal made by the representative of the Ministry of Education and Sport, who provided us with concrete data, with a concrete solution that would help improve nutrition and, above all, reduce the cost of primary school nutrition. If I finish. Not many of us, but maybe someone remembers when we went to elementary school, if there was no other school, at least at the beginning of the school year we picked up an apple, put it in a so-called backpack or a backpack, and we ate that apple on vacation. And in wintertime, if there were any knees, there was a piece of meat and we survived. But time, of course, also changed the way you eat in primary schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Mr. Aleš Gulic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u300	I mean, if anyone listens to us at all, it will feel like there is no diet in Slovenian primary schools. But that's what I think needs to be fixed. Things are already in order. Today we are only talking about subsidisation, whether it would be paid from the budget or not. By the way, the Ministry can fix me up, but as far as I know, 97% of the students have lunch this morning, a little less than half of them have lunch and a little more than 10% of breakfast. So these things at this physical level are settled. It's only here, as far as I can tell, to pay, that this would be subsidised from the state budget. As a result, I also spoke at the beginning of the presentation of the Group's position about whether it makes sense to subsidise everything, whether this meal is considered a social category. And we are slowly approaching the fact that everything that is in primary school is said to be compulsory education, free of charge. We certainly agree with that. If we go to see what this is like around the world, because it was obvious how to read something, I have to say that things are different in Europe. It could be difficult to say that some of us can set an example there in the final stage, probably Sweden and Finland, where this is free. One meal is free. Certainly there can be no example of us, for example, Austria, or Germany, where this is very poorly arranged, not to say Norway, which is also an interesting Scandinavian state, is not even regulated at all. That's very different. For example, Denmark has a subsidized school diet, only that is where the congregations take care. I would not have ruined the problem of regionalisation, because if these strange works ever came to life, on the one hand, historically, on the other hand, completely artificial will be a long time and probably not even the children of these children will be able to experience it. So I would really rather leave all this to our decisions at this point, but let these matters be regulated at national level, not by the provinces, or by the level of the municipalities, because of course they can be problems. Some congregations have faced very serious problems, even those newly formed ones that have now regulated their infrastructures, and yet they have not really known about other problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marjetka Uhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u302	Thank you so much for saying that. Nevertheless, I will come to you that Mr Friend will not think that I am completely indifferent to his marriage, because he is very sad today about the presence of Members or the absence of Members. I have read this law thoroughly, and I must say that in New Slovenia we also advocate a free primary school, that parents pay as little as possible, especially textbooks, workbooks and similar old ones, that this should be paid as possible by their parents, and that primary school would be really free to have lunch, lunch or meals available to everyone. However, I have raised some concerns that it may not be just a matter of state to pay all the meals. However, it may be necessary to consider how the local community could contribute as the founder of a public institution. I certainly think that we must work on ensuring that meals are of quality, accessible to all and affordable as much as possible. I think that the government must also strive to do so and ensure that meals are as cheap and affordable as possible, but that this is 2.42 euros, and it is still to be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Spending. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u304	Thank you. I don't know what I've gotten so fond of my fellow Member of the Friend, because he's been quoting me twice, and I think he's got a bit of an awkward connection. If, when subsidising the student diet, I have pointed out that the budget did not provide funds, then I can also find out for this proposal, if the law is to enter into force for the school year 2009/2010, at least for that part in 2009, there is no subsidised consumption of funds in the budget. And here, my friend friend, you can't put any bad thoughts on me because it's just a fact, it's just a conclusion. I also said how it would then be necessary to advocate for the regulation or subsidisation of primary school nutrition to become a priority to be addressed in the budget. With this understanding alone, and with such a priority, I have no problem at all, because I am advocating free education, I am also advocating that compulsory education should even be extended and that this state's concern could then be extended, but what is at this point close to the concerns of my colleague Gulic. More selectivity must be ensured. In Article 1, you provide the possibility of subsidisation only for the morning meal and the daily warm meal. I don't think it's dinner for primary school, but it's lunch. And the current analysis suggests that the interest of children for lunch is greater in that part as long as extended stay is ensured. We have now completed it with the fifth class because we have successfully excluded the extended stay from the Sixth Class from the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Thus, the interest in a warm meal in school is likely to decrease. At the implementation level, I have no problems with the standards and standards that the school provides. But some things in the organization are problematic. The stigmatization of children whose parents did not pay their children, however, rings and the children are ashamed because perhaps the parents have forgotten to pay. At one primary school, I can tell you, Mrs Škrynjar, this was written in a newspaper, in which elementary school it was, also so that if a child forgets twice the card that he must have, once, perhaps another time he is excused, the third time no longer. Please! Children who are imaginary beings who have all the other worries if they don't make sure that they have a card with them, or the chip that will prove that they've paid for it, are the little things that can make a child's life a bad experience, which is what bothers me. Last but not least, the Ministry is thinking about paying for a cookbook and other experts, and I don't know how much if I know that because there will be a combined department at a school in the next school year, because that's why there will be fewer departments at school, even a chef gets a lower salary because it depends on her salary on the number of children and on the number of departments. The Ministry is really dealing with some things with ease. I believe that now, at the principle level, we can discuss these things, because it is probably agreed that these are things that will have to wait for the future. Again, I guarantee that the local community can also think about greater participation in subsidisation, especially because, say, in the Municipality of Maribor we have found some projects that are more funded by the local community: a contribution at the birth of a child or some health programs, as this could also apply to primary school nutrition. I do not believe that the landscapes will introduce miraculous solutions for school-related matters, because first of all it is necessary to look at what will be transferred to the province level and how basic education with obligations will move to the country level. For primary school the establishment is still at the local community level, teachers' salaries are still at state level despite the provinces and so on, there is much to be said. The social criterion, which, in the case of subsidised secondary school, the student diet has been completely weakened, since it is now a social criterion here in this law for every student of 2.42 euros spent daily on a warm meal. It is not said that everything will be completely covered by the 2.42 euros. If you are looking at the proposed amounts that you have just written down, how much is lunch in just one environment, for example, for the Walfdor School 1.60 euros, then it is difficult to count that such a subsidy would be sufficient for two meals. I still have a problem with why I couldn't be subsidised even breakfast if that's the case, why couldn't I have a subsidised breakfast and lunch if I didn't decide to have lunch. Why wouldn't that be possible? These are the comments I have. Some of the things I've warned you about about sneaking into the text of the law, you have quite a high school in Article 8, but they show that there was a bit of a rush.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u305	Thank you very much. The text is also given by the proposer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Whoever's working, he's wrong. And the administrative errors that are recorded can be comprehensible. Let that be an apology, given your last comment. In view of the fact that research has shown that the eating habits of children and adolescents are poor, because they have too few bad meals and have too few breakfasts, as we can see, only 10% of children eat morning breakfast, it is all the more necessary to stop this bad practice by eating these snacks. And the lunches and the lunches. For lunches we can say that in fact the power is almost 100% guaranteed and for lunches 50%. I'd say why lunches on such a halved scale. Probably because families do not make decisions because of their poor social status, so that the child can eat lunch against payment. The number of families with a monthly income of less than EUR 500 is too large in the Republic of Slovenia to be able to say that this law is not necessary. And when you speak, you provide information that it is not exemplary and appropriate to regulate it in such a way that we can ensure everything. Let us take a closer look at the research work of our National Assembly, which is organized and conducted under order number 11. We took it into our hands when we were preparing this marriage. However, we will see that some countries have much better governance and may be less generous in the social field than our country. At the outset, I said that the country is now spending one week of the necessary resources if we are looking at the cost it would take to measure it budgetaryly to ensure free nutrition in primary schools, of course for two meals. But if we did, I would also like to say that this population, which we claim to be and we are all of the same opinion, as many of us as there are here, nine or six, nine, that it is necessary to pay the most attention to nutrition precisely this population, primary school, because it is in the stage of growing up and so on, during the most sensitive period of growing up. But this is also not enough to have the necessary majority vote on this law, because the means are probably a problem. I would point out once again if it comes to adopting this law, which is unlikely, then we can confidently say that we will also propose an appropriate solution in the budgetary sense and provide these funds. Finally, in the vast majority, these funds can also be provided by redistribution of funds from the so-called military portfolio or from this title, which Slovenia is devoting to the military. Today we have one battalion of soldiers in Kosovo who cost us a million euros a month, and we are not asking ourselves whether that is necessary or not. At home, however, we cannot properly regulate and protect our borders, and it is also appropriate to defend the interests of the people living there. And the spear is broken on primary school diet. There we can be philosophical about why we don't have the money we need and how we get it and so on. 14 million is not enough, ladies and gentlemen. If there is any honesty in your souls in making decisions, you will be able to support this law with ease. After all, if we only collect a tenth of the interest on those who have illegally enriched, we will have five such laws of money. Not for one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2008-06-19-SDZ4-Redna-40.ana.u307	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. But since the time set for the debate has not yet run out, I ask if anyone else wants a word. I don't open applications because we're too few to see each other so well. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday, 24 June 2008, in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. I'm also adjourning the 40th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. I am correcting Tuesday, 24 June 2008, not Friday, as I said.
